# § 147.2250   State-administered program—Class I, III, IV, and V wells.

The UIC program for Class I, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Utah, except those on Indian lands, is administered by the Utah Department of Health, Division of Environmental Health, approved by EPA pursuant to Section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on January 9, 1983 (47 FR 2321). The effective date of this program is February 10, 1983. Changes to Utah's regulations for Class I wells were made on May 15, 1990, in response to modification of national rules as promulgated by 53 FR 28188, July 26, 1988. Utah's rules were effective July 20, 1990. The revised rules, Program Description, Attorney General's statement, and Memorandum of Agreement were approved as a minor program modification on October 3, 1990. This program consists of the following elements as submitted to EPA: 


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Utah. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984. 


(1) Utah Water Pollution Control Act, Utah Code Annotated, Title 26, Chapter 11, Sections 2, 8, and 10 (1989); 


(2) Underground Injection Control Regulations; Utah Administrative Code, Section R448-7 (effective as of January 2, 1990); 


(3) Underground Injection Control Program (adopted January 20, 1982 and revised effective July 20, 1990) (Officially submitted to EPA by the Executive Secretary of Utah Water Pollution Control Committee on August 16, 1990). 


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for selected sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program: 


(1) Utah Pollution Control Act, Utah Code Annotated, Sections 26-11-1 through -20 (Supp. 1990); 


(c)(1) The revised Memorandum of Agreement between EPA, Region VIII and the Utah Department of Health, Division of Environmental Health, signed by the Regional Administrator on October 3, 1990. 


(2) Letter from Director, Utah Department of Health, Division of Environmental Health, Bureau of Water Pollution Control, to EPA Region VIII, Re: Underground Injection Control Program—Utah, March 15, 1982; 


(3) Letter from the Executive Secretary of the Utah Water Pollution Control Committee to EPA Region VIII, “Re: Utah UIC Class I Well Program Changes,” August 16, 1990; 


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's statement,” signed by Attorney General, State of Utah, January, 1982; 


(2) Letter from Assistant Attorney General of Utah to Chief, Drinking Water Branch, EPA Region VIII, June 18, 1982; 


(3) Addendum to Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement signed by Attorney General of Utah, August 10, 1990. 


(e) The Program Description (revised June 19, 1990) and any other materials submitted as part of the application or supplements thereto. 



---

[N] [56 FR 9419, Mar. 6, 1991]




