# § 205.380   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Bulk-power system* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (1) of section 215(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Critical electric infrastructure* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (2) of section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Defense critical electric infrastructure* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (4) of section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Department* means the United States Department of Energy.


*Electric Reliability Organization* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (2) of section 215(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center* (E-ISAC) means the organization, operated on behalf of the electricity subsector by the Electric Reliability Organization, that gathers and analyzes security information, coordinates incident management, and communicates mitigation strategies with stakeholders within the electricity subsector, across interdependent sectors, and with government partners. The E-ISAC, in collaboration with the Department of Energy and the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council, serves as the primary security communications channel for the electricity subsector and enhances the subsector's ability to prepare for and respond to cyber and physical threats, vulnerabilities, and incidents.


*Electricity subsector* means both commercial and industrial actors who generate and deliver electric power.


*Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council* (ESCC) means the organization that aims to foster and facilitate the coordination of sector-wide, policy-related activities and initiatives designed to improve the reliability and resilience of the electricity subsector, including physical and cyber security infrastructure.


*Electromagnetic pulse* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (5) of section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Emergency & Incident Management Council* (EIMC) means the organization, internal to the Department of Energy and chaired by the Deputy Secretary of Energy, designed to increase cooperation and coordination across the Department to prepare for, mitigate, respond to, and recover from emergencies.


*Emergency measures* means measures necessary in the judgment of the Secretary to protect or restore the reliability of critical electric infrastructure or of defense critical electric infrastructure during a grid security emergency as defined in section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act.


*Emergency order* means an order for emergency measures under section 215A(b) of the Federal Power Act.


*Geomagnetic storm* means a temporary disturbance of the Earth's magnetic field resulting from solar activity.


*Grid security emergency* means the same as the definition of such term in paragraph (7) of section 215A(a) of the Federal Power Act. A grid security emergency is “declared” once the President of the United States has issued and provided to the Secretary a written directive or determination identifying the emergency.


*Regional entity* means an entity having enforcement authority under section 215(e)(4) of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. 824o(e)(4).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Energy.




