# § 91.147   Passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section, *Operator* means any person conducting nonstop passenger-carrying flights in an airplane, powered-lift, or rotorcraft for compensation or hire in accordance with §§ 119.1(e)(2), 135.1(a)(5), or 121.1(d) of this chapter that begin and end at the same airport and are conducted within a 25-statute mile radius of that airport.


(b) *General requirements.* An Operator conducting passenger-carrying flights for compensation or hire must meet the following requirements unless all flights are conducted under § 91.146. The Operator must:


(1) Comply with the safety provisions of part 136, subpart A of this chapter.


(2) Register and implement its drug and alcohol testing programs in accordance with part 120 of this chapter.


(3) Comply with the applicable requirements of part 5 of this chapter.


(4) Apply for and receive a Letter of Authorization from the responsible Flight Standards office.


(c) *Letter of Authorization.* Each application for a Letter of Authorization must include the following information:


(1) Name of Operator, agent, and any d/b/a (doing-business-as) under which that Operator does business.


(2) Principal business address and mailing address.


(3) Principal place of business (if different from business address).


(4) Name of person responsible for management of the business.


(5) Name of person responsible for aircraft maintenance.


(6) Type of aircraft, registration number(s), and make/model/series.


(7) Antidrug and Alcohol Misuse Prevention Program registration.


(d) *Compliance.* The Operator must comply with the provisions of the Letter of Authorization received.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2021-0419; Amdt. No. 91-374, 89 FR 33108, Apr. 26, 2024]






