# § 391.46   Physical qualification standards for an individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control.

(a) *Diabetes mellitus treated with insulin.* An individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control is physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle provided:


(1) The individual otherwise meets the physical qualification standards in § 391.41 or has an exemption or skill performance evaluation certificate, if required; and


(2) The individual has the evaluation required by paragraph (b) and the medical examination required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Evaluation by the treating clinician.* Prior to the examination required by § 391.45 or the expiration of a medical examiner's certificate, the individual must be evaluated by his or her “treating clinician.” For purposes of this section, “treating clinician” means a healthcare professional who manages, and prescribes insulin for, the treatment of the individual's diabetes mellitus as authorized by the healthcare professional's State licensing authority.


(1) During the evaluation of the individual, the treating clinician must complete the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870.


(2) Upon completion of the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, the treating clinician must sign and date the Form and provide his or her full name, office address, and telephone number on the Form.


(c) *Medical examiner's examination.* At least annually, but no later than 45 days after the treating clinician signs and dates the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, an individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control must be medically examined and certified by a medical examiner as physically qualified in accordance with § 391.43 and as free of complications from diabetes mellitus that might impair his or her ability to operate a commercial motor vehicle safely.


(1) The medical examiner must receive a completed Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, signed and dated by the individual's treating clinician for each required examination. This Form shall be treated and retained as part of the Medical Examination Report Form, MCSA-5875.


(2) The medical examiner must determine whether the individual meets the physical qualification standards in § 391.41 to operate a commercial motor vehicle. In making that determination, the medical examiner must consider the information in the Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, signed by the treating clinician and, utilizing independent medical judgment, apply the following qualification standards in determining whether the individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control may be certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle.


(i) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle if he or she is not maintaining a stable insulin regimen and not properly controlling his or her diabetes mellitus.


(ii) The individual is not physically qualified on a permanent basis to operate a commercial motor vehicle if he or she has either severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy or proliferative diabetic retinopathy.


(iii) The individual is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle up to the maximum 12-month period under § 391.45(e) until he or she provides the treating clinician with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records while being treated with insulin that are generated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(iv) The individual who does not provide the treating clinician with at least the preceding 3 months of electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records while being treated with insulin that are generated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section is not physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle for more than 3 months. If 3 months of compliant electronic blood glucose self-monitoring records are then provided by the individual to the treating clinician and the treating clinician completes a new Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870, the medical examiner may issue a medical examiner's certificate that is valid for up to the maximum 12-month period allowed by § 391.45(e) and paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(d) *Blood glucose self-monitoring records.* Individuals with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control must self-monitor blood glucose in accordance with the specific treatment plan prescribed by the treating clinician. Such individuals must maintain blood glucose records measured with an electronic glucometer that stores all readings, that records the date and time of readings, and from which data can be electronically downloaded. A printout of the electronic blood glucose records or the glucometer must be provided to the treating clinician at the time of any of the evaluations required by this section.


(e) S*evere hypoglycemic episodes.* (1) An individual with diabetes mellitus treated with insulin for control who experiences a severe hypoglycemic episode after being certified as physically qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle is prohibited from operating a commercial motor vehicle, and must report such occurrence to and be evaluated by a treating clinician as soon as is reasonably practicable. A severe hypoglycemic episode is one that requires the assistance of others, or results in loss of consciousness, seizure, or coma. The prohibition on operating a commercial motor vehicle continues until a treating clinician:


(i) Has determined that the cause of the severe hypoglycemic episode has been addressed;


(ii) Has determined that the individual is maintaining a stable insulin regimen and proper control of his or her diabetes mellitus; and


(iii) Completes a new Insulin-Treated Diabetes Mellitus Assessment Form, MCSA-5870.


(2) The individual must retain the Form and provide it to the medical examiner at the individual's next medical examination.



---

[N] [83 FR 47520, Sept. 19, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019]








