# § 63.482   Definitions.

(a) The following terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in § 63.2, § 63.101, or the Act, as specified after each term:


(b) All other terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in this section. If a term is defined in a subpart referenced in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of this subpart.


*Affected source* is defined in § 63.480(a).


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding. Beginning on July 15, 2024, this definition of *affirmative defense* no longer applies.


*Aggregate batch vent stream* means a gaseous emission stream containing only the exhausts from two or more batch front-end process vents that are ducted, hard-piped, or otherwise connected together for a continuous flow.


*Annual average batch vent concentration* is determined using Equation 17, as described in § 63.488(h)(2) for halogenated compounds.


*Annual average batch vent flow rate* is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(e)(3).


*Annual average concentration,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the flow-weighted annual average concentration, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b), with the exceptions noted in § 63.501, for the purposes of this subpart.


*Annual average flow rate,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the annual average flow rate, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c), with the exceptions noted in § 63.501, for the purposes of this subpart.


*Average batch vent concentration* is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(b)(5)(iii) for HAP concentrations and is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(h)(1)(iii) for organic compounds containing halogens and hydrogen halides.


*Average batch vent flow rate* is determined by the procedures in § 63.488(e)(1) and (2).


*Back-end* refers to the unit operations in an EPPU following the stripping operations. Back-end process operations include, but are not limited to, filtering, coagulation, blending, concentration, drying, separating, and other finishing operations, as well as latex and crumb storage. Back-end does not include storage and loading of finished product or emission points that are regulated under § 63.484, § 63.501, or § 63.502.


*Batch cycle* means the operational step or steps, from start to finish, that occur as part of a batch unit operation.


*Batch emission episode* means a discrete emission venting episode associated with a single batch unit operation. Multiple batch emission episodes may occur from a single batch unit operation.


*Batch front-end process vent* means a process vent with annual organic HAP emissions greater than 225 kilograms per year from a batch unit operation within an affected source and located in the front-end of a process unit. Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.488(b) at the location specified in § 63.488(a)(2).


*Batch mass input limitation* means an enforceable restriction on the total mass of HAP or material that can be input to a batch unit operation in one year.


*Batch mode* means the discontinuous bulk movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties may vary with time. For a unit operation operated in a batch mode (*i.e.,* batch unit operation), the addition of material and withdrawal of material do not typically occur simultaneously.


*Batch process* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a batch mode.


*Batch unit operation* means a unit operation operated in a batch mode.


*Block polymer* means a polymer where the polymerization is controlled, usually by performing discrete polymerization steps, such that the final polymer is arranged in a distinct pattern of repeating units of the same monomer.


*Butyl rubber* means a copolymer of isobutylene and other monomers. Typical other monomers include isoprene and methylstyrene. A typical composition of butyl rubber is approximately 85- to 99-percent isobutylene, and 1- to 15-percent other monomers. Most butyl rubber is produced by precipitation polymerization, although other methods may be used. Halobutyl rubber is a type of butyl rubber elastomer produced using halogenated copolymers.


*Combined vent stream,* as used in reference to batch front-end process vents, continuous front-end process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from a combination of two or more of the aforementioned types of process vents. The primary occurrence of a combined vent stream is as combined emissions from a continuous front-end process vent and a batch front-end process vent.


*Combustion device burner* means a device designed to mix and ignite fuel and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize waste organic vapors in a combustion device.


*Compounding unit* means a unit operation which blends, melts, and resolidifies solid polymers for the purpose of incorporating additives, colorants, or stabilizers into the final elastomer product. A unit operation whose primary purpose is to remove residual monomers from polymers is not a compounding unit.


*Construction* means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source. Construction also means the on-site fabrication, erection, or installation of a process unit or combination of process units which subsequently becomes an affected source or part of an affected source, due to a change in primary product.


*Continuous front-end process vent* means a process vent located in the front-end of a process unit and containing greater than 0.005 weight percent total organic HAP from a continuous unit operation within an affected source. The total organic HAP weight percent is determined after the last recovery device, as described in § 63.115(a), and is determined as specified in § 63.115(c).


*Continuous mode* means the continuous movement of material through a unit operation. Mass, temperature, concentration, and other properties typically approach steady-state conditions. For a unit operation operated in a continuous mode (*i.e.,* continuous unit operation), the simultaneous addition of raw material and withdrawal of product is typical.


*Continuous process* means, for the purposes of this subpart, a process where the reactor(s) is operated in a continuous mode.


*Continuous record* means documentation, either in hard copy or computer readable form, of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes and recorded at the frequency specified in § 63.506(d) or (h).


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device that either records an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or records 1—hour or more frequent block average values.


*Continuous unit operation* means a unit operation operated in a continuous mode.


*Control device* is defined in § 63.111, except that the term “continuous front-end process vent” shall apply instead of the term “process vent,” for the purpose of this subpart.


*Crumb rubber dry weight* means the weight of the polymer, minus the weight of water and residual organics.


*Dioxins and furans* means total tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.


*Drawing unit* means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then pulling it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.


*Elastomer* means any polymer having a glass transition temperature lower than −10  °C, or a glass transition temperature between −10  °C and 25  °C that is capable of undergoing deformation (stretching) of several hundred percent and recovering essentially when the stress is removed. For the purposes of this subpart, resins are not considered to be elastomers.


*Elastomer product* means one of the following types of products, as they are defined in this section:


(i) Butyl Rubber;


(ii) Epichlorohydrin Elastomer;


(iii) Ethylene Propylene Rubber;


(iv) Hypalon
TM;


(v) Neoprene;


(vi) Nitrile Butadiene Rubber;


(vii) Nitrile Butadiene Latex;


(viii) Polybutadiene Rubber/Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Solution;


(ix) Polysulfide Rubber;


(x) Styrene Butadiene Rubber by Emulsion; and


(xi) Styrene Butadiene Latex.


*Elastomer product process unit (EPPU)* means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture an elastomer product as its primary product. This collection of equipment includes unit operations; recovery operations equipment; process vents; storage vessels, as determined in § 63.480(g); equipment that is identified in § 63.149; and the equipment that is subject to the equipment leak provisions as specified in § 63.502. Utilities, lines and equipment not containing process fluids, and other non-process lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not part of an elastomer product process unit. An elastomer product process unit consists of more than one unit operation.


*Elastomer type* means one of the elastomers listed under “elastomer product” in this section. Each elastomer identified in that definition represents a different elastomer type.


*Emission point* means an individual continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, back-end process vent, storage vessel, waste management unit, heat exchange system, or equipment leak, or equipment subject to § 63.149.


*Emulsion process* means a process where the monomer(s) is dispersed in droplets throughout a water phase, with the aid of an emulsifying agent such as soap or a synthetic emulsifier. The polymerization occurs either within the emulsion droplet or in the aqueous phase.


*Epichlorohydrin elastomer* means an elastomer formed from the polymerization or copolymerization of epichlorohydrin (EPI). The main epichlorohydrin elastomers are polyepichlorohydrin, epi-ethylene oxide (EO) copolymer, epi-allyl glycidyl ether (AGE) copolymer, and epi-EO-AGE terpolymer. Epoxies produced by the copolymerization of EPI and bisphenol A are not epichlorohydrin elastomers.


*Equipment* means, for the purposes of the provisions in § 63.502(a) through (m) and the requirements in subpart H that are referred to in § 63.502(a) through (m), each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service; and any control devices or systems required by subpart H of this part.


*Ethylene-propylene rubber* means an ethylene-propylene copolymer or an ethylene-propylene terpolymer. Ethylene-propylene copolymers (EPM) result from the polymerization of ethylene and propylene and contain a saturated chain of the polymethylene type. Ethylene-propylene terpolymers (EPDM) are produced in a similar manner as EPM, except that a third monomer is added to the reaction sequence. Typical third monomers include ethylidene norbornene, 1,4-hexadiene, or dicyclopentadiene. Ethylidene norbornene is the most commonly used. The production process includes, but is not limited to, polymerization, recycle, recovery, and packaging operations. The polymerization reaction may occur in either a solution process or a suspension process.


*Existing affected source* is defined in § 63.480(a)(3).


*Existing process unit* means any process unit that is not a new process unit.


*Extruding unit* means a unit operation which converts polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then forcing it through an orifice to create a continuously extruded product.


*Flexible operation unit* means a process unit that manufactures different chemical products, polymers, or resins periodically by alternating raw materials or operating conditions. These units are also referred to as campaign plants or blocked operations.


*Front-end* refers to the unit operations in an EPPU prior to, and including, the stripping operations. For all gas-phased reaction processes, all unit operations are considered to be front-end.


*Gas-phased reaction process* means an elastomer production process where the reaction occurs in a gas phase, fluidized bed.


*Glass transition temperature* means the temperature at which an elastomer polymer becomes rigid and brittle.


*Grade* means a group of recipes of an elastomer type having similar characteristics such as molecular weight, monomer composition, significant mooney values, and the presence or absence of extender oil and/or carbon black. More than one recipe may be used to produce the same grade.


*Group 1 batch front-end process vent* means, before July 15, 2027, a batch front-end process vent releasing annual organic HAP emissions greater than or equal to 11,800 kg/yr and with a cutoff flow rate, calculated in accordance with § 63.488(f), greater than or equal to the annual average batch vent flow rate. Annual organic HAP emissions and annual average batch vent flow rate are determined at the exit of the batch unit operation, as described in § 63.488(a)(2). Annual organic HAP emissions are determined as specified in § 63.488(b), and annual average batch vent flow rate is determined as specified in § 63.488(e). On and after July 15, 2027, Group 1 batch front-end process vent means, each batch front-end process vent that, when combined, the sum of all these process vents would release annual organic HAP emissions greater than or equal to 4,536 kg/yr (10,000 lb/yr) as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.488(b).


*Group 2 batch front-end process vent* means a batch front-end process vent that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 batch front-end process vent.


*Group 1 continuous front-end process vent* means, before July 15, 2027, a continuous front-end process vent for which the flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, and the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is less than or equal to 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 1 continuous front-end process vent means a process vent that emits greater than or equal to 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.


*Group 2 continuous front-end process vent* means, before July 15, 2027, a continuous front-end process vent for which the flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume, or the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is greater than 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 2 continuous front-end process vent means a process vent that emits less than 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.


*Group 1 storage vessel* means a storage vessel at an existing affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 3 of this subpart, or a storage vessel at a new affected source that meets the applicability criteria specified in Table 4 of this subpart.


*Group 2 storage vessel* means a storage vessel that does not fall within the definition of a Group 1 storage vessel.


*Group 1 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater from an existing or new affected source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(c), with the exceptions listed in § 63.501(a)(10) for the purposes of this subpart (*i.e.,* for organic HAP as defined in this section).


*Group 2 wastewater stream* means any process wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream.


*Halogenated aggregate batch vent stream* means an aggregate batch vent stream determined to have a total mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 3,750 kg/yr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.488(h).


*Halogenated batch front-end process vent* means a batch front-end process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 3,750 kg/yr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.488(h).


*Halogenated continuous front-end process vent* means a continuous front-end process vent determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 0.45 kg/hr or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).


*High conversion latex* means a latex where all monomers are reacted to at least 95 percent conversion.


*Highest-HAP recipe* for a product means the recipe of the product with the highest total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product.


*Hypalon*TM means a chlorosulfonated polyethylene that is a synthetic rubber produced for uses such as wire and cable insulation, shoe soles and heels, automotive components, and building products.


*In chloroprene service* means the following:


(i) For process vents, each continuous front-end process vent, each batch front-end process vent, and each back-end process vent in a process at affected sources producing neoprene that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted chloroprene, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents within the process would emit uncontrolled, chloroprene emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a continuous front-end process vent, batch front-end process vent, or back-end process vent, then the process vent is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless an analysis is performed as specified in § 63.509 to demonstrate that the process vent does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(ii) For storage vessels, storage vessels of any capacity and vapor pressure in a process at affected sources producing neoprene storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of chloroprene. If knowledge exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a storage vessel, then the storage vessel is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.509 are performed to demonstrate that the storage vessel does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. The exemption for vessels “storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP, or organic HAP as impurities only” listed in the definition of “storage vessel” in this section does not apply for storage vessels that are in chloroprene service. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a storage vessel, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(iii) For wastewater streams, any wastewater stream in a process at affected sources producing neoprene that contains total annual average concentration of chloroprene greater than or equal to 10 parts per million by weight at any flow rate. If knowledge exists that suggests chloroprene could be present in a wastewater stream, then the wastewater stream is considered to be “in chloroprene service” unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in § 63.509 to demonstrate that the wastewater stream does not meet the definition of being “in chloroprene service”. Examples of information that could suggest chloroprene could be present in a wastewater stream, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


*Initial start-up* means the first time a new or reconstructed affected source begins production of an elastomer product, or, for equipment added or changed as described in § 63.480(i), the first time the equipment is put into operation to produce an elastomer product. Initial start-up does not include operation solely for testing equipment. Initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups of an affected source or portion thereof following shutdowns, or following changes in product for flexible operation units, or following recharging of equipment in batch operation.


*Latex* means a colloidal aqueous emulsion of elastomer. A latex may be further processed into finished products by direct use as a coating or as a foam, or it may be precipitated to separate the rubber particles, which are then used in dry state to prepare finished products.


*Latex weight* includes the weight of the polymer and the weight of the water solution.


*Maintenance wastewater* is defined in § 63.101, except that the term “elastomer product process unit” shall apply whenever the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used. Further, the generation of wastewater from the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches is not maintenance wastewater, but is considered to be process wastewater, for the purposes of this subpart.


*Maximum true vapor pressure* is defined in § 63.111, except that the terms “transfer” and “transferred” shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.


*Multicomponent system* means, as used in conjunction with batch front-end process vents, a stream whose liquid and/or vapor contains more than one compound.


*Neoprene* means a polymer of chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene). The free radical emulsion process is generally used to produce neoprene, although other methods may be used.


*New process unit* means a process unit for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after June 12, 1995.


*Nitrile butadiene latex* means a polymer consisting primarily of unsaturated nitriles and dienes, usually acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene, that is sold as a latex.


*Nitrile butadiene rubber* means a polymer consisting primarily of unsaturated nitriles and dienes, usually acrylonitrile and 1,3-butadiene, not including nitrile butadiene latex.


*On-site or on site* means, with respect to records required to be maintained by this subpart or required by another subpart referenced by this subpart, that records are stored at a location within a major source which encompasses the affected source. On-site includes, but is not limited to, storage at the affected source or EPPU to which the records pertain, or storage in central files elsewhere at the major source.


*Operating day* means the period defined by the owner or operator in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.506(e)(5). The operating day is the period for which daily average monitoring values and batch cycle daily average monitoring values are determined.


*Organic hazardous air pollutant(s) (organic HAP)* means one or more of the chemicals listed in table 5 to this subpart or any other chemical which:


(i) Is knowingly produced or introduced into the manufacturing process other than as an impurity; and


(ii) Is listed in table 2 to subpart F of this part.


*Polybutadiene rubber by solution* means a polymer of 1,3-butadiene produced using a solution process.


*Polysulfide rubber* means a polymer produced by reacting sodium polysulfide and chloroethyl formal. Polysulfide rubber may be produced as latexes or solid product.


*Primary product* is defined in and determined by the procedures specified in § 63.480(f).


*Process section* means the equipment designed to accomplish a general but well-defined task in polymers production. Process sections include raw materials preparation, polymerization reaction, and material recovery. A process section may be dedicated to a single EPPU or may be common to more than one EPPU.


*Process unit* means a collection of equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work, used to process raw materials and to manufacture a product.


*Process vent* means a gaseous emission stream from a unit operation that is discharged to the atmosphere either directly or after passing through one or more control, recovery, or recapture devices. Unit operations that may have process vents are condensers, distillation units, reactors, or other unit operations within the EPPU. Process vents exclude pressure releases, gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system(s), and leaks from equipment regulated under § 63.502. A gaseous emission stream is no longer considered to be a process vent after the stream has been controlled and monitored in accordance with the applicable provisions of this subpart.


*Product* means a polymer produced using the same monomers, and varying in additives (*e.g.,* initiators, terminators, etc.); catalysts; or in the relative proportions of monomers, that is manufactured by a process unit. With respect to polymers, more than one recipe may be used to produce the same product, and there can be more than one grade of a product. As an example, styrene butadiene latex and butyl rubber each represent a different product. Product also means a chemical that is not a polymer, is manufactured by a process unit. By-products, isolated intermediates, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products.


*Recipe* means a specific composition, from among the range of possible compositions that may occur within a product, as defined in this section. A recipe is determined by the proportions of monomers and, if present, other reactants and additives that are used to make the recipe. For example, styrene butadiene latex without additives; styrene butadiene latex with an additive; and styrene butadiene latex with different proportions of styrene to butadiene are all different recipes of the same product, styrene butadiene latex.


*Reconstruction* means the replacement of components of an affected source or of a previously unaffected stationary source that becomes an affected source as a result of the replacement, to such an extent that:


(i) The fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct a comparable new source; and


(ii) It is technologically and economically feasible for the reconstructed source to meet the provisions of this subpart.


*Recovery device* means:


(i) An individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for:


(A) Use;


(B) Reuse;


(C) Fuel value (*i.e.,* net heating value); or


(D) For sale for use, reuse, or fuel value (*i.e.,* net heating value).


(ii) Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin film evaporation units. For the purposes of the monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting requirements of this subpart, recapture devices are considered recovery devices.


*Recovery operations equipment* means the equipment used to separate the components of process streams. Recovery operations equipment includes distillation units, condensers, etc. Equipment used for wastewater treatment and recovery or recapture devices used as control devices shall not be considered recovery operations equipment.


*Residual* is defined in § 63.111, except that when the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “table 9 compounds,” the term “organic HAP listed in table 5 to subpart U of this part” shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


*Resin,* for the purposes of this subpart, means a polymer with the following characteristics:


(i) The polymer is a block polymer;


(ii) The manufactured polymer does not require vulcanization to make useful products;


(iii) The polymer production process is operated to achieve at least 99 percent monomer conversion; and


(iv) The polymer process unit does not recycle unreacted monomer back to the process.


*Shutdown* means for purposes including, but not limited to, periodic maintenance, replacement of equipment, or repair, the cessation of operation of an affected source, an EPPU within an affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, or the emptying or degassing of a storage vessel. For purposes of the wastewater provisions of § 63.501, shutdown does not include the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches. For purposes of the batch front-end process vent provisions in §§ 63.486 through 63.492, the cessation of equipment in batch operation is not a shutdown, unless the equipment undergoes maintenance, is replaced, or is repaired.


*Solution process* means a process where both the monomers and the resulting polymers are dissolved in an organic solvent.


*Start-up* means the setting into operation of an affected source, an EPPU within the affected source, a waste management unit or unit operation within an affected source, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, or a storage vessel after emptying and degassing. For both continuous and batch front-end processes, start-up includes initial start-up and operation solely for testing equipment. For both continuous and batch front-end processes, start-up does not include the recharging of equipment in batch operation. For continuous front-end processes, start-up includes transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units. For batch front-end processes, start-up does not include transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units.


*Steady-state conditions* means that all variables (temperatures, pressures, volumes, flow rates, etc.) in a process do not vary significantly with time; minor fluctuations about constant mean values may occur.


*Storage vessel* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain one or more organic HAP. Storage vessels do not include:


(i) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;


(ii) Except for storage vessels in chloroprene service, vessels with capacities smaller than 38 cubic meters;


(iii) Except for storage vessels in chloroprene service, vessels and equipment storing and/or handling material that contains no organic HAP, or organic HAP as impurities only;


(iv) Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers; and


(v) Wastewater storage tanks.


*Stripper* means a unit operation where stripping occurs.


*Stripping* means the removal of organic compounds from a raw elastomer product. In the production of an elastomer, stripping is a discrete step that occurs after the reactors and before the dryers (other than those dryers with a primary purpose of devolitalization) and other finishing operations. Examples of types of stripping include steam stripping, direct volatilization, chemical stripping, and other methods of devolatilization. For the purposes of this subpart, devolatilization that occurs in dryers (other than those dryers with a primary purpose of devolatilization), extruders, and other finishing operations is not stripping.


*Styrene butadiene latex* means a polymer consisting primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units produced using an emulsion process and sold as a latex.


*Styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion* means a polymer consisting primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units produced using an emulsion process. Styrene butadiene rubber by emulsion does not include styrene butadiene latex.


*Styrene butadiene rubber by solution* means a polymer that consists primarily of styrene and butadiene monomer units and is produced using a solution process.


*Supplemental combustion air* means the air that is added to a vent stream after the vent stream leaves the unit operation. Air that is part of the vent stream as a result of the nature of the unit operation is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to operate combustion device burner(s) is not considered supplemental combustion air. Air required to ensure the proper operation of catalytic oxidizers, to include the intermittent addition of air upstream of the catalyst bed to maintain a minimum threshold flow rate through the catalyst bed or to avoid excessive temperatures in the catalyst bed, is not considered to be supplemental combustion air.


*Suspension process* means a polymerization process where the monomer(s) is in a state of suspension, with the help of suspending agents in a medium other than water (typically an organic solvent). The resulting polymers are not soluble in the reactor medium.


*Total organic compounds (TOC)* means those compounds, excluding methane and ethane, measured according to the procedures of Method 18 or Method 25A of appendices A-6 and A-7 to 40 CFR part 60, respectively, or ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) as specified in this subpart.


*Total resource effectiveness index value or TRE index value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of organic HAP associated with a continuous front-end process vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of organic HAP, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the continuous front-end process vent stream contains halogenated compounds), as quantified by the equations given under § 63.115, with the exceptions noted in § 63.485.


*Vent stream,* as used in reference to batch front-end process vents, continuous front-end process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, means the emissions from one or more process vents.


*Waste management unit* is defined in § 63.111, except that where the definition in § 63.111 uses the term “chemical manufacturing process unit,” the term “EPPU” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


*Wastewater* means water that:


(i) Contains either:


(A) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed in table 5 to this subpart of at least 5 parts per million by weight and has an annual average flow rate of 0.02 liter per minute or greater; or


(B) An annual average concentration of organic HAP listed in table 5 to this subpart of at least 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate; and


(ii) Is discarded from an EPPU that is part of an affected source. Wastewater is process wastewater or maintenance wastewater.


*Wastewater stream* means a stream that contains wastewater as defined in this section.

 



---

[N] [89 FR 43237, May 16, 2024]




