# § 740.6   Technology and software under restriction (TSR).

(a) *Scope.* License Exception TSR permits exports and reexports of technology and software where the Commerce Country Chart (Supplement No. 1 to part 738 of the EAR) indicates a license requirement to the ultimate destination for national security reasons only and identified by “TSR—Yes” in entries on the CCL, provided the software or technology is destined to Country Group B, except Sudan and Ukraine. (See Supplement No. 1 to part 740.) A written assurance is required from the consignee before exporting or reexporting under this License Exception.


(1) *Required assurance for export of technology.* You may not export or reexport technology under this License Exception until you have received from the importer a written assurance that, without a BIS license or License Exception, the importer will not:


(i) Reexport or release the technology to a national of a country in Country Groups D:1, E:1, or E:2; or


(ii) Export to Country Groups D:1, E:1, or E:2 the direct product of the technology, if such foreign produced direct product is subject to national security controls as identified on the CCL (See General Prohibition Three, § 736.2(b)(3) of the EAR); or


(iii) If the direct product of the technology is a complete plant or any major components of a plant, export to Country Groups D:1, E:1, or E:2 of the direct product of the plant or major components thereof, if such foreign produced direct product is subject to national security controls as identified on the CCL or is “subject to the ITAR” (see 22 CFR parts 120 through 130).




(iv) Reexport to a destination in Country Group D:5, a destination subject to the Regional Stability control under ECCN 3A999, or Macau or release the technology to a national of such destinations, if the technology is controlled under ECCN 3E069.




(2) *Required assurance for export of software.* You may not export or reexport software under this License Exception until you have received from the importer a written assurance that, without a BIS license or License Exception, the importer will neither:


(i) Reexport or release the software or the source code for the software to a national of a country in Country Groups D:1, E:1, or E:2; nor


(ii) Export to Country Groups D:1, E:1, or E:2 the direct product of the software, if such foreign produced direct product is subject to national security controls as identified on the CCL. (See General Prohibition Three, § 736.2(b)(3) of the EAR).


(3) *Form of written assurance.* The required assurance may be made in the form of a letter or any other written communication from the importer, including communications via facsimile, or the assurance may be incorporated into a licensing agreement that specifically includes the assurances. An assurance included in a licensing agreement is acceptable only if the agreement specifies that the assurance will be honored even after the expiration date of the licensing agreement. If such a written assurance is not received, License Exception TSR is not applicable and a license is required. The license application must include a statement explaining why assurances could not be obtained.


(4) *Other License Exceptions.* The requirements in this License Exception do not apply to the export of technology or software under other License Exceptions, or to the export of technology or software included in an application for the foreign filing of a patent, provided the filing is in accordance with the regulations of the U.S. Patent Office.


(b) *Reporting requirements.* See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements for exports of certain items under License Exception TSR. Note that reports are not required for release of technology or source code subject to the EAR to foreign nationals in the U.S. under the provisions of License Exception TSR.



---

[N] [61 FR 64275, Dec. 4, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 50520, Sept. 22, 1998; 63 FR 55019, Oct. 14, 1998; 69 FR 5690, Feb. 6, 2004; 75 FR 44890, July 30, 2010; 78 FR 61901, Oct. 4, 2013; 80 FR 43318, July 22, 2015; 85 FR 84213, Dec. 28, 2020; 86 FR 4933, Jan. 19, 2021; 90 FR 4615, Jan. 16, 2025]




