# 39.203   Applicability.

(a) *General.* Unless an exception at 39.204 or an exemption at 39.205 applies, acquisitions for ICT supplies and services shall meet the applicable ICT accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194.1.


(b) *Indefinite-quantity contracts.* Confirmation of an exception or a determination of an exemption is not required prior to award of an indefinite-quantity contract, except for requirements that are to be satisfied by initial award. The contract must identify which supplies and services the contractor indicates as compliant and show where full details of compliance can be found (*e.g.,* vendor's or other exact website location).


(c) *Task order or delivery order.* At the time of issuance of a task order or delivery order under an indefinite-quantity contract, the requiring and ordering activities shall ensure compliance with the ICT accessibility standards and document an exception or exemption if applicable. Any task order or delivery order, or portion thereof, issued for a noncompliant ICT item shall be supported by the appropriate exception or exemption documented by the requiring activity.


(d) *Commercial products and commercial services.* When acquiring commercial products and commercial services, an agency must comply with those ICT accessibility standards that can be met with supplies or services that are available in the commercial marketplace and that best address the agency's needs, but see 39.205(a)(3).


(e) *Legacy ICT.* Any component or portion of existing ICT (*i.e.,* ICT that was procured, maintained, or used on or before January 18, 2018) is not required to comply with the current ICT accessibility standards if it—


(1) Complies with an earlier standard issued pursuant to section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), which is set forth in Appendix D to 36 CFR 1194.1); and


(2) Has not been altered (*i.e.,* a change that affects interoperability, the user interface, or access to information or data) after January 18, 2018.


(f) *Alterations of legacy ICT.* When altering any component or portion of existing ICT, after January 18, 2018, the component or portion must be modified to conform to the current ICT accessibility standards in 36 CFR 1194.1.



---

[N] [86 FR 44232, Aug. 11, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 61030, Nov. 4, 2021]




