# § 23.92   Are any wildlife or plants, and their parts, products, or derivatives, exempt?

(a) All living or dead wildlife and plants in Appendix I, II, and III and all their readily recognizable parts, products, and derivatives must meet the requirements of CITES and this part, except as indicated in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) The following are exempt from the requirements of CITES. You may be required to demonstrate that your specimen qualifies as exempt under this section. For specimens that are exempt from CITES requirements, you must still follow the clearance requirements for wildlife in part 14 of this subchapter and for plants in part 24 of this subchapter and 7 CFR parts 319, 352, and 355.


(1) *Appendix-III wildlife and Appendix-II or -III plants.* (i) Where an annotation designates what is excluded from CITES requirements, any part, product, or derivative that is specifically excluded.


(ii) Where an annotation designates what is covered by the Treaty, all parts, products, or derivatives that are not designated.


(2) *Plant hybrids.* Specimens of an Appendix-II or -III plant taxon with an annotation that specifically excludes hybrids.


(c) The following are exempt from CITES document requirements when certain criteria are met.


(1) *Plant hybrids.* Seeds and pollen (including pollinia), cut flowers, and flasked seedlings or tissue cultures of hybrids that qualify as artificially propagated (see § 23.64) and that were produced from one or more Appendix-I species or taxa that are not annotated to treat hybrids as Appendix-I specimens.


(2) *Flasked seedlings of Appendix-I orchids.* Flasked seedlings of an Appendix-I orchid species that qualify as artificially propagated (see § 23.64).


(3) *Marine specimens listed in Appendix II that are protected under another treaty, convention, or international agreement which was in force on July 1, 1975* as provided in § 23.39(d).


(4) *Coral sand and coral fragments* as defined in § 23.5.


(5) *Personal and household effects* as provided in § 23.15.


(6) *Urine, feces, and synthetically derived DNA* as provided in § 23.16.


(7) *Certain wildlife hybrids* as provided in § 23.43.



---

[N] [72 FR 48448, Aug. 23, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 30429, May 27, 2014]




