# § 96.305   Retired unit exemption.

(a)(1) Any CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit that is permanently retired and is not a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season opt-in unit under subpart IIII of this part shall be exempt from the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program, except for the provisions of this section, § 96.302, § 96.303, § 96.304, § 96.306(c)(4) through (7), § 96.307, § 96.308, and subparts BBBB and EEEE through GGGG of this part.


(2) The exemption under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall become effective the day on which the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit is permanently retired. Within 30 days of the unit's permanent retirement, the CAIR designated representative shall submit a statement to the permitting authority otherwise responsible for administering any CAIR permit for the unit and shall submit a copy of the statement to the Administrator. The statement shall state, in a format prescribed by the permitting authority, that the unit was permanently retired on a specific date and will comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) After receipt of the statement under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the permitting authority will amend any permit under subpart CCCC of this part covering the source at which the unit is located to add the provisions and requirements of the exemption under paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section.


(b) *Special provisions.* (1) A unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall not emit any nitrogen oxides, starting on the date that the exemption takes effect.


(2) The permitting authority will allocate CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowances under subpart EEEE of this part to a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall retain, at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired.


(4) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the CAIR designated representative of a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.


(5) A unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a title V operating permit shall not resume operation unless the CAIR designated representative of the source submits a complete CAIR permit application under § 96.322 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of January 1, 2009 or the date on which the unit resumes operation.


(6) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall lose its exemption:


(i) The date on which the CAIR designated representative submits a CAIR permit application for the unit under paragraph (b)(5) of this section;


(ii) The date on which the CAIR designated representative is required under paragraph (b)(5) of this section to submit a CAIR permit application for the unit; or


(iii) The date on which the unit resumes operation, if the CAIR designated representative is not required to submit a CAIR permit application for the unit.


(7) For the purpose of applying monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements under subpart HHHH of this part, a unit that loses its exemption under paragraph (a) of this section shall be treated as a unit that commences commercial operation on the first date on which the unit resumes operation.



---

[N] [70 FR 25382, May 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 25393, Apr. 28, 2006]




