# ยง 982.631   Homeownership option: Home inspections, contract of sale, and PHA disapproval of seller.

(a) HQS inspection by PHA. The PHA may not commence monthly homeownership assistance payments or provide a downpayment assistance grant for the family until the PHA has inspected the unit and has determined that the unit passes HQS.


(b) *Independent inspection.* (1) The unit must also be inspected by an independent professional inspector selected by and paid by the family. 


(2) The independent inspection must cover major building systems and components, including foundation and structure, housing interior and exterior, and the roofing, plumbing, electrical, and heating systems. The independent inspector must be qualified to report on property conditions, including major building systems and components. 


(3) The PHA may not require the family to use an independent inspector selected by the PHA. The independent inspector may not be a PHA employee or contractor, or other person under control of the PHA. However, the PHA may establish standards for qualification of inspectors selected by families under the homeownership option. 


(4) The independent inspector must provide a copy of the inspection report both to the family and to the PHA. The PHA may not commence monthly homeownership assistance payments, or provide a downpayment assistance grant for the family, until the PHA has reviewed the inspection report of the independent inspector. Even if the unit otherwise complies with the HQS (and may qualify for assistance under the PHA's tenant-based rental voucher program), the PHA shall have discretion to disapprove the unit for assistance under the homeownership option because of information in the inspection report. 


(c) *Contract of sale.* (1) Before commencement of monthly homeownership assistance payments or receipt of a downpayment assistance grant, a member or members of the family must enter into a contract of sale with the seller of the unit to be acquired by the family. The family must give the PHA a copy of the contract of sale (see also ยง 982.627(a)(7)). 


(2) The contract of sale must: 


(i) Specify the price and other terms of sale by the seller to the purchaser. 


(ii) Provide that the purchaser will arrange for a pre-purchase inspection of the dwelling unit by an independent inspector selected by the purchaser. 


(iii) Provide that the purchaser is not obligated to purchase the unit unless the inspection is satisfactory to the purchaser. 


(iv) Provide that the purchaser is not obligated to pay for any necessary repairs. 


(3) In addition to the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a contract for the sale of units not yet under construction at the time the family is to enter into the contract for sale must also provide that:


(i) The purchaser is not obligated to purchase the unit unless an environmental review has been performed and the site has received environmental approval prior to commencement of construction in accordance with 24 CFR 982.628.


(ii) The construction will not commence until the environmental review has been completed and the seller has received written notice from the PHA that environmental approval has been obtained. Conduct of the environmental review may not necessarily result in environmental approval, and environmental approval may be conditioned on the contracting parties' agreement to modifications to the unit design or to mitigation actions.


(iii) Commencement of construction in violation of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section voids the purchase contract and renders homeownership assistance under 24 CFR part 982 unavailable for purchase of the unit.


(d) *PHA disapproval of seller.* In its administrative discretion, the PHA may deny approval of a seller for any reason provided for disapproval of an owner in ยง 982.306(c).



---

[N] [65 FR 55163, Sept. 12, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 64494, Oct. 18, 2002; 72 FR 59938, Oct. 22, 2007; 72 FR 73497, Dec. 27, 2007; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015]




