# § 334.1120   Pacific Ocean in the vicinity of Point Mugu, Calif.; naval small arms firing range.

(a) *The danger zone.* A triangular area extending westerly into the waters of the Pacific Ocean from a point on the beach north of Point Mugu, California, described as follows: Beginning at latitude 34°05′32″, longitude 119°03′57″; thence southwesterly approximately 4,000 yards to latitude 34°04′22″, longitude 119°05′55″; thence northwesterly approximately 1,500 yards to latitude 34°05′01″, longitude 119°06′17″; thence northeasterly to the point of beginning.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Range firing will normally take place between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., Thursday through Monday, and between 6 a.m. and 11:30 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday of each week. Within the above periods, firing will be conducted as determined by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Construction Battalion Center, Port Hueneme, Calif.


(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the danger zone will be open to fishing and general navigation.


(3) The Commanding Officer, U.S. Naval Construction Battalion Center, Port Hueneme, California, will announce firing schedules. Each week, public notices will be issued giving advance firing schedules. Such notices will appear in the local newspapers and in local “Notice to Mariners,” and “Notice to Airmen.” For the benefit of fishermen and smallcraft operators, announcements will be made on the marine radio.


(4) When a scheduled firing is about to be undertaken or is in progress, a large red flag will be displayed from the control tower situated at latitude 34°05′32″, longitude 119°03′57″, so as to be clearly visible for a distance of at least three (3) miles offshore. Safety observers will be on duty at all times when the warning flag is being displayed from the tower. Upon completion of firing, or if the scheduled firing is canceled for any reason, fishermen and small-boat operators will be notified as far in advance as possible by Marine Radio Broadcast.


(5) Persons, vessels or other craft shall not enter or remain in the danger zone when the warning flag is being displayed unless authorized to do so by the range officer in the control tower.


(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commandant, Eleventh Naval District, San Diego, California, and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [28 FR 4785, May 14, 1963; 29 FR 1318, Jan. 25, 1964, as amended at 32 FR 5834, Apr. 12, 1967. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17558, Apr. 10, 1997]




