# § 6.19   Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.

(a) *Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and order.* Within 20 days of filing of the transcript of the testimony or such additional time as the Administrative Law Judge may allow each party may file with the Administrative Law Judge proposed findings of fact, conclusion of law, and order, together with a supporting brief expressing the reasons for such proposals. Such proposals and brief shall be served on all parties, and shall refer to all portions of the record and to all authorities relied upon in support of each proposal.


(b) *Decision of the Administrative Law Judge.* (1) Within a reasonable time after the time allowed for the filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and order, or within 30 days after receipt of an agreement containing consent findings and order disposing of the disputed matter in whole, the Administrative Law Judge shall make his/her decision. If any aggrieved party desires review of the decision, a petition for review thereof shall be filed as provided in § 6.20 of this title, and such decision and order shall be inoperative unless and until the Administrative Review Board issues an order affirming the decision. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with reasons and bases therefor, upon each material issue of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be based upon a consideration of the whole record, including any admissions made under §§ 6.16, 6.17 and 6.18 of this title. It shall be supported by reliable and probative evidence. Such decision shall be in accordance with the regulations and rulings contained in parts 4 and 5 and other pertinent parts of this title.


(2) If the respondent is found to have violated the Service Contract Act, the Administrative Law Judge shall include in his/her decision an order as to whether the respondent is to be relieved from the ineligible list as provided in section 5(a) of the Act, and, if relief is ordered, findings of the unusual circumstance, within the meaning of section 5(a) of the Act, which are the basis therefor. If respondent is found to have violated the provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an order as to whether the respondent is to be subject to the ineligible list as provided in § 5.12(a)(1) of part 4 of this title, including findings regarding the existence of aggravated or willful violations. If wages and/or fringe benefits are found due under the Service Contract Act and/or the Contract Work Safety Standards Act and are unpaid, no relief from the ineligible list shall be ordered except on condition that such wages and/or fringe benefits are paid. 


(3) The Administrative Law Judge shall make no findings regarding liquidated damages under the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.




