# ยง 501.18   Customer information and authorization.

(a) Authorized providers must electronically transmit the necessary customer information to the designated Postal Service central data processing facility, in Postal Service-specified format, in order for the Postal Service to authorize a customer to use a Postage Evidencing System. Postal Service receipt and acceptance of the customer information provides the customer with the authorization to possess or use a Postage Evidencing System in accordance with DMM 604 Postage Payment Methods, 4.0 Postage Meters and PC Postage Products (Postage Evidencing Systems).


(b) The Postal Service may refuse to issue a customer authorization to use a Postage Evidencing System for the following reasons:


(1) The customer submitted false or fictitious information.


(2) Within five years preceding submission of the information, the customer violated any standard for the care or use of the Postage Evidencing System, including any unresolved identified postage discrepancies that resulted in revocation of that customer's authorization.


(3) Or there is sufficient reason to believe that the Postage Evidencing System is to be used in violation of the applicable standards.


(c) The Postal Service will notify the provider of the revocation of a customer's authorization to use a Postage Evidencing System. Within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice of revocation, the provider must cancel any lease or other agreement and remove the Postage Evidencing System from service. A customer's authorization to use a Postage Evidencing system is subject to revocation for any of the following reasons:


(1) A Postage Evidencing System is used for any illegal scheme or enterprise.


(2) The customer's Postage Evidencing System is not used for twelve (12) consecutive months.


(3) Sufficient control of a Postage Evidencing System is not exercised or the standards for its care or use are not followed.


(4) The Postage Evidencing System is kept or used outside the customs territory of the United States or those U.S. territories and possessions where the Postal Service operates.


(5) The customer is in possession of a Decertified Postage Evidencing System.


(6) The customer has any unresolved postage discrepancies.


(d) The provider must electronically transmit any updates to the necessary customer information to the designated Postal Service central data processing facility, in Postal Service-specified format.


(e) No one other than an authorized provider may possess a Postage Evidencing System without a valid rental or other agreement with the provider. Other parties in possession of a Postage Evidencing System must immediately surrender it to the provider or the Postal Service.


(f) The Postal Service may use customer information consistent with the Privacy Act and the Postal Service's privacy policies posted on *http://www.usps.com.* Examples include the following:


(1) Communication with customers who may no longer be visiting a traditional Postal Service retail outlet or communication with customers through any new retail channels.


(2) Issuance (including re-authorization, renewal, transfer, revocation or denial, as applicable) of authorization to use a Postage Evidencing System to a postal patron that uses a Postage Evidencing System, and communications with respect to the status of such authorization.


(3) Disclosure to a meter provider of the identity of any meter required to be removed from service by that meter provider, and any related customer data, as the result of revocation of an authorization to use a Postage Evidencing System, questioned accurate registration of that meter, or de-certification by the Postal Service of any particular class or model of postage meter.


(4) Tracking the movement of meters between a meter provider and its customers and communications to a meter provider (but not to any third party other than the customer) concerning such movement. The term meter provider includes a meter provider's dealers and agents.


(5) To transmit general information to all Postage Evidencing System customers concerning rate and rate category changes implemented or proposed for implementation by the Postal Service.


(6) To advertise Postal Service services relating to the acceptance, processing, and delivery of, or postage payment for, metered mail.


(7) To allow the Postal Service to communicate with Postal Service customers on products, services, and other information otherwise available to Postal Service customers through traditional retail outlets.


(8) Any internal use by Postal Service personnel, including identification and monitoring activities relating to Postage Evidencing Systems, provided that such use does not result in the disclosure of applicant information to any third party or will not enable any third party to use applicant information for its own purposes; except that the applicant information may be disclosed to other governmental agencies for law enforcement purposes as provided by law.


(9) Identification of authorized Postage Evidencing System providers or announcement of the de-authorization of an authorized provider, or provision of currently available public information, where an authorized provider is identified.


(10) To promote and encourage the use of Postage Evidencing Systems as a form of postage payment, provided that the same information is provided to all Postage Evidencing System customers and no particular Postage Evidencing System provider will be recommended by the Postal Service.


(11) To contact customers in cases of revenue fraud or revenue security.


(12) Disclosure to a Postage Evidencing System provider of applicant information pertaining to that provider's customers that the Postal Service views as necessary to enable the Postal Service to carry out its duties and purposes.


(13) To transmit to a Postage Evidencing System provider all applicant and system information pertaining to that provider's customers and systems that may be necessary to permit such provider to synchronize its computer databases with information contained in the computer files of the Postal Service.


(14) Subject to the conditions stated herein, to communicate in oral or written form with any or all applicants any information that the Postal Service views as necessary to enable the Postal Service to carry out its duties and purposes under part 501.



---

[N] [71 FR 65733, Nov. 9, 2006, as amended at 80 FR 42393, July 17, 2015]




