# ยง 68.65   Process safety information.

(a) The owner or operator shall complete a compilation of written process safety information before conducting any process hazard analysis required by this part and shall keep process safety information up to date. The compilation of written process safety information is to enable the owner or operator and the employees involved in operating the process to identify and understand the hazards posed by those processes involving regulated substances. This process safety information shall include information pertaining to the hazards of the regulated substances used or produced by the process, information pertaining to the technology of the process, and information pertaining to the equipment in the process.




(b) Information pertaining to the hazards of the regulated substances in the process. This information shall consist of at least the following: 


(1) Toxicity information; 


(2) Permissible exposure limits; 


(3) Physical data; 


(4) Reactivity data: 


(5) Corrosivity data; 


(6) Thermal and chemical stability data; and 


(7) Hazardous effects of inadvertent mixing of different materials that could foreseeably occur.


(c) Information pertaining to the technology of the process. 


(1) Information concerning the technology of the process shall include at least the following: 


(i) A block flow diagram or simplified process flow diagram; 


(ii) Process chemistry; 


(iii) Maximum intended inventory; 


(iv) Safe upper and lower limits for such items as temperatures, pressures, flows or compositions; and, 


(v) An evaluation of the consequences of deviations. 


(2) Where the original technical information no longer exists, such information may be developed in conjunction with the process hazard analysis in sufficient detail to support the analysis. 


(d) Information pertaining to the equipment in the process. 


(1) Information pertaining to the equipment in the process shall include: 


(i) Materials of construction; 


(ii) Piping and instrument diagrams (P&ID's); 


(iii) Electrical classification; 


(iv) Relief system design and design basis; 


(v) Ventilation system design; 


(vi) Design codes and standards employed; 


(vii) Material and energy balances for processes built after June 21, 1999; and 


(viii) Safety systems (e.g. interlocks, detection or suppression systems). 


(2) The owner or operator shall ensure and document that the process is designed and maintained in compliance with recognized and generally accepted good engineering practices.




(3) For existing equipment designed and constructed in accordance with codes, standards, or practices that are no longer in general use, the owner or operator shall determine and document that the equipment is designed, maintained, inspected, tested, and operating in a safe manner. 



---

[N] [61 FR 31722, June 20, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 4699, Jan. 13, 2017; 84 FR 69914, Dec. 19, 2019; 89 FR 17688, Mar. 11, 2024]






