# ยง 529.3   Definitions.

(a) *Statutory terms.* (1) The term *automobile* is used as defined in section 501 of the Act and in accordance with the determinations in 49 CFR part 523.


(2) The terms *manufacture, manufacturer,* and *fuel economy* are used as defined in section 501 of the Act.


(b) *Other terms.* (1) *Act* means the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Pub. L. 92-513), as amended by the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163).


(2) *Completed automobile* means an automobile that requires no further manufacturing operations to perform its intended function, other than the addition of readily attachable components, such as mirrors or tire and rim assemblies, or minor finishing operations such as painting.


(3) *Curb weight* is defined the same as *vehicle curb weight* in 40 CFR part 86.


(4) *Final-stage manufacturer* means a person who performs such manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile that it becomes a completed automobile.


(5) *Frontal area* is used as defined in 40 CFR 86.079-2.


(6) *Incomplete automobile* means an assemblage consisting, as a minimum, of frame and chassis structure, power train, steering system, suspension system, and braking system to the extent that those systems are to be part of the completed automobile, that requires further manufacturing operations, other than the addition of readily attachable components, such as mirrors or tire and rim assemblies, or minor finishing operations such as painting, to become a completed automobile.


(7) *Incomplete automobile manufacturer* means a person who manufactures an incomplete automobile by assembling components none of which, taken separately, constitute a complete automobile.


(8) *Intermediate manufacturer* means a person, other than the incomplete automobile manufacturer or the final-stage manufacturer, who performs manufacturing operations on an incomplete automobile.



---

[N] [42 FR 38372, July 28, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 39983, Aug. 8, 1977]




