# 43.205   Contract clauses.

(a)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-1, Changes—Fixed-Price, in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price contract for supplies is contemplated.


(2) If the requirement is for services, other than architect-engineer or other professional services, and no supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate I.*

(3) If the requirement is for services (other than architect-engineer services, transportation, or research and development) and supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate II.*

(4) If the requirement is for architect-engineer or other professional services, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate III.*

(5) If the requirement is for transportation services, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate IV.*

(6) If it is desired to include the clause in solicitations and contracts when a research and development contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate V.*

(b)(1) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-2, Changes—Cost-Reimbursement, in solicitations and contracts when a cost-reimbursement contract for supplies is contemplated.


(2) If the requirement is for services and no supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate I.*

(3) If the requirement is for services and supplies are to be furnished, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate II.*

(4) If the requirement is for construction, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate III.*

(5) [Reserved]


(6) If it is desired to include the clause in solicitations and contracts when a research and development contract is contemplated, the contracting officer shall use the clause with its *Alternate V.*

(c) Insert the clause at 52.243-3, Changes—Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours, in solicitations and contracts when a time-and-materials or labor-hour contract is contemplated. The contracting officer may vary the 30-day period in paragraph (c) of the clause according to agency procedures. 


(d) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-4, Changes, in solicitations and contracts for (1) dismantling, demolition, or removal of improvements; and (2) construction, when a fixed-price contract is contemplated and the contract amount is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.


(e) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 52.243-5, Changes and Changed Conditions, in solicitations and contracts for construction, when the contract amount is not expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.


(f) The contracting officer may insert a clause, substantially the same as the clause at 52.243-6, Change Order Accounting, in solicitations and contracts for supply and research and development contracts of significant technical complexity, if numerous changes are anticipated. The clause may be included in solicitations and contracts for construction if deemed appropriate by the contracting officer.



---

[N] [48 FR 42386, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 56 FR 15154, Apr. 15, 1991; 60 FR 34760, July 3, 1995; 61 FR 39190, July 26, 1996; 65 FR 46072, July 26, 2000; 72 FR 27385, May 15, 2007]




