# ยง 200.403   Notice of Commission meetings.

(a) *Content of notice.* (1) In the case of open meetings, or meetings closed pursuant to the procedures specified in ยง 200.404, the Commission shall announce the items to be considered. For each such item, the announcement shall include: 


(i) A brief description of the generic or precise subject matter to be discussed; 


(ii) The date, place, and approximate time at which the Commission will consider the matter; 


(iii) Whether the meeting, or the various portions thereof, shall be open or closed; and 


(iv) The name and telephone number of the Commission official designated to respond to requests for information concerning the meeting at which the matter is to be considered. 


(2) Every announcement of a Commission meeting described in this subsection, or any amended announcement described in paragraph (c), shall be transmitted to the _Federal Register_ for publication. 


(b) *Time of notice.* The announcement of Commission meetings referred to in paragraph (a) shall be made publicly available (and submitted immediately thereafter to the _Federal Register_ for publication) at least one week prior to the consideration of any item listed therein, except where a majority of the members of the Commission determine, by a recorded vote, that Commission business requires earlier consideration of the matter. In the event of such a determination, the announcement shall be made publicly available (and submitted to the _Federal Register_) at the earliest practicable time. 


(c) *Amendments to notice.* (1)(i) The time or place of a meeting may be changed following any public announcement that may be required by paragraph (a). In the event of such action, the Commission shall announce the change at the earliest practicable time. 


(ii) The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the Commission to open or close a meeting (or a portion of a meeting), may be changed following any public announcement that may be required by paragraph (a), if (A) a majority of the entire membership of the Commission determines, by a recorded vote, that Commission business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible; and (B) the Commission publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon such change at the earliest practicable time. 


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (c), matters which have been announced for Commission consideration may be deleted, or continued in whole or in part to the next scheduled Commission meeting, without notice. 


(d) *Notice of meetings closed pursuant to special procedure.* In the case of meetings closed pursuant to the special procedures set forth in ยง 200.405, the Commission shall make publicly available, in whole or in summary form, 


(1) A brief description of the general subject matter considered or to be considered, and 


(2) The date, place, and approximate time at which the Commission will, or did, consider the matter. The announcement described in this subsection shall be made publicly available at the earliest practicable time, and may be combined, in whole or in part, with the announcement described in paragraph (a).


