# § 503.15   Operational standards—pathogens and vector attraction reduction.

(a) *Pathogens—sewage sludge.* (1) The Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) or the Class B pathogen requirements and site restrictions in § 503.32(b) shall be met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site. 


(2) The Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) shall be met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to a lawn or a home garden. 


(3) The Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) shall be met when sewage sludge is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land. 


(b) *Pathogens—domestic septage.* The requirements in either § 503.32 (c)(1) or (c)(2) shall be met when domestic septage is applied to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site. 


(c) *Vector attraction reduction—sewage sludge.* (1) One of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(10) shall be met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site. 


(2) One of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) shall be met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to a lawn or a home garden. 


(3) One of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) shall be met when sewage sludge is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land. 


(d) *Vector attraction reduction—domestic septage.* The vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33(b)(9), (b)(10), or (b)(12) shall be met when domestic septage is applied to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site. 




