# § 625.1   Purpose; rules of construction.

(a) *Purpose.* Section 410 of “The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act” amended the program for the payment of unemployment assistance to unemployed individuals whose unemployment is caused by a major disaster, and to provide reemployment assistance services to those individuals. The unemployment assistance provided for in section 410 of the Act is hereinafter referred to as Disaster Unemployment Assistance, or DUA. The regulations in this part are issued to implement sections 410 and 423 of the Act.


(b) *First rule of construction.* Sections 410 and 423 of the Act and the implementing regulations in this part shall be construed liberally so as to carry out the purposes of the Act.


(c) *Second rule of construction.* Sections 410 and 423 of the Act and the implementing regulations in this part shall be construed so as to assure insofar as possible the uniform interpretation and application of the Act throughout the United States.


(d) *Effectuating purpose and rules of construction.* (1) In order to effectuate the provisions of this section, each State agency shall forward to the United States Department of Labor, on receipt of a request from the Department, a copy of any determination or redetermination ruling on an individual's entitlement to DUA. 


(2) If the Department believes a determination or redetermination is inconsistent with the Secretary's interpretation of the Act, the Department may at any time notify the State agency of the department's view. Thereafter, the State agency shall appeal if possible, and shall not follow such determination or redetermination as a precedent; and in any subsequent proceedings which involve such determination or redetermination, or wherein such determination or redetermination is cited as precedent or otherwise relied upon, the State agency shall inform the hearing officer of the Department's view and shall make all reasonable efforts to obtain modification, limitation, or overruling of the determination or redetermination. 


(3) A State agency may request reconsideration of a notice that a determination or redetermination is inconsistent with the Act, and shall be given an opportunity to present views and arguments if desired. If a determination or redetermination setting a precedent becomes final, which the Department believes to be inconsistent with the Act, the Secretary will decide whether the Agreement with the State shall be terminated. 


(4) Concurrence of the Department in a determination or redetermination shall not be presumed from the absence of a notice issued pursuant to this paragraph. 



---

[N] [42 FR 46712, Sept. 16, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 554, Jan. 5, 1990]




