# ยง 712.2   How much can an FCU invest in or loan to CUSOs, and what parties may participate?

(a) *Investments.* An FCU's total investments in CUSOs must not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus as of its last calendar year-end financial report.


(b) *Loans.* An FCU's total loans to CUSOs must not exceed, in the aggregate, 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus as of its last calendar year-end financial report. Loan authority is independent and separate from the 1% investment authority of subsection (a) of this section.


(c) *Parties.* An FCU may invest in or loan to a CUSO by itself, with other credit unions, or with non-credit union parties.


(d) *Measurement for calculating regulatory limitation.* For purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section: 


(1) Total investments in and total loans to CUSOs will be measured consistent with GAAP. 


(2) *Special rule in the case of less than adequately capitalized FICUs.* This rule applies in the case of a FICU that is currently less than adequately capitalized, as determined under part 702 of this chapter, or where the making of an investment in a CUSO would render the FICU less than adequately capitalized under part 702 of this chapter. Before making an investment in a CUSO:


(i) A less than adequately capitalized FCU, or an FCU that would be rendered less than adequately capitalized by the recapitalization of a CUSO, must obtain prior written approval from the appropriate NCUA regional office if the making of the investment would result in an aggregate cash outlay, measured on a cumulative basis (regardless of how the investment is valued for accounting purposes, but limited to the immediately preceding seven (7) years) in an amount that is in excess of 1% of its paid-in and unimpaired capital and surplus; or


(ii) A less than adequately capitalized FISCU, or a FISCU that would be rendered less than adequately capitalized by the recapitalization of a CUSO, must obtain prior written approval from the appropriate state supervisory authority if the making of the investment would result in an aggregate cash outlay, measured on a cumulative basis (regardless of how the investment is valued for accounting purposes, but limited to the immediately preceding seven (7) years) in an amount that is in excess of the investment limit in the state in which it is chartered. A FISCU must also contemporaneously submit a copy of this request to the appropriate NCUA regional office. If there is no state limit in the state in which a FISCU is chartered, the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section will apply to that FISCU.


(e) *Divestiture.* If the limitations in paragraph (a) of this section are reached or exceeded because of the profitability of the CUSO and the related GAAP valuation of the investment under the equity method, without an additional cash outlay by the FCU, divestiture is not required. An FCU may continue to invest up to 1% without regard to the increase in the GAAP valuation resulting from a CUSO's profitability.



---

[N] [63 FR 10756, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 33187, June 22, 1999; 66 FR 65624, Dec. 20, 2001; 73 FR 79312, Dec. 29, 2008; 78 FR 32545, May 31, 2013; 78 FR 72548, Dec. 3, 2013]




