# § 1114.9   Amendments.

(a) *General.* FDA may request, or an applicant may submit on its own initiative, an amendment to a PMTA containing information that is necessary for FDA complete the review of a pending PMTA. An amendment must include the appropriate form and specify the STN assigned to the original submission and, if submitted other than at FDA's request, the reason for submitting the amendment. An amendment must also include the certification statement set forth in § 1114.7(m), with the appropriate information inserted, and signed by an authorized representative of the applicant.


(b) *Review of an amendment.* Submission of an amendment may affect the timing of review of an amended submission as follows:


(1) If the amendment is a major amendment (*e.g.,* an amendment that contains significant new data from a previously unreported study, detailed new analyses of previously submitted data, or substantial new manufacturing information), FDA will restart the 180-day review period after receipt of the amendment.


(2) If FDA requests a minor amendment (*i.e.,* an amendment that is not a major amendment) and receives a written response submitting the requested amendment, FDA may pause the review period for the number of days elapsed between the date of the request and the date that FDA receives the written response.


(c) *Failure to respond to amendment request.* If FDA requests an amendment and the applicant does not respond within the time period specified in FDA's request, FDA may consider the applicant to have submitted a request to voluntarily withdraw the pending PMTA under § 1114.11 and issue an acknowledgment letter notifying the applicant of the withdrawal.


(d) *No amendment to closed or withdrawn application.* An applicant may not amend an application after FDA has closed the application through an action under § 1114.29 or it has been withdrawn under § 1114.11.




