# § 447.26   Prohibition on payment for provider-preventable conditions.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* The purpose of this section is to protect Medicaid beneficiaries and the Medicaid program by prohibiting payments by States for services related to provider-preventable conditions.


(1) Section 2702 of the Affordable Care Act requires that the Secretary exercise authority to prohibit Federal payment for certain provider preventable conditions (PPCs) and health care-acquired conditions (HCACs).


(2) Section 1902(a)(19) of the Act requires that States provide care and services consistent with the best interests of the beneficiaries.


(3) Section 1902(a)(30) of the Act requires that State payment methods must be consistent with efficiency, economy, and quality of care.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Health care-acquired condition* means a condition occurring in any inpatient hospital setting, identified as a HAC by the Secretary under section 1886(d)(4)(D)(iv) of the Act for purposes of the Medicare program identified in the State plan as described in section 1886(d)(4)(D)(ii) and (iv) of the Act; other than Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT)/Pulmonary Embolism (PE) as related to total knee replacement or hip replacement surgery in pediatric and obstetric patients.


*Other provider-preventable condition* means a condition occurring in any health care setting that meets the following criteria:


(i) Is identified in the State plan.


(ii) Has been found by the State, based upon a review of medical literature by qualified professionals, to be reasonably preventable through the application of procedures supported by evidence-based guidelines.


(iii) Has a negative consequence for the beneficiary.


(iv) Is auditable.


(v) Includes, at a minimum, wrong surgical or other invasive procedure performed on a patient; surgical or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong body part; surgical or other invasive procedure performed on the wrong patient.


*Provider-preventable condition* means a condition that meets the definition of a “health care-acquired condition” or an “other provider-preventable condition” as defined in this section.


(c) *General rules.* (1) A State plan must provide that no medical assistance will be paid for “provider-preventable conditions” as defined in this section; and as applicable for individuals dually eligible for both the Medicare and Medicaid programs.


(2) No reduction in payment for a provider preventable condition will be imposed on a provider when the condition defined as a PPC for a particular patient existed prior to the initiation of treatment for that patient by that provider.


(3) Reductions in provider payment may be limited to the extent that the following apply:


(i) The identified provider-preventable conditions would otherwise result in an increase in payment.


(ii) The State can reasonably isolate for nonpayment the portion of the payment directly related to treatment for, and related to, the provider-preventable conditions.


(4) FFP will not be available for any State expenditure for provider-preventable conditions.


(5) A State plan must ensure that non-payment for provider-preventable conditions does not prevent access to services for Medicaid beneficiaries.


(d) *Reporting.* State plans must require that providers identify provider-preventable conditions that are associated with claims for Medicaid payment or with courses of treatment furnished to Medicaid patients for which Medicaid payment would otherwise be available.



---

[N] [76 FR 32837, June 6, 2011]




