# ยง 1005.735   Occupancy inspection.

(a) *Occupancy inspection.* An occupancy inspection is a visual inspection of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan property by the Servicer to determine if the property is vacant or abandoned and to confirm the identity of any occupants.


(b) *Occupancy follow-up.* An occupancy follow-up is an attempt to communicate with the Borrower via letter, telephone, or other method of communication, other than on-site inspection, to determine occupancy when the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan remains in default after the initial occupancy inspection that did not result in determination of the Borrower's occupancy status.


(c) *Initial occupancy inspection.* The Servicer must perform the initial occupancy inspection after the 45th day of default but no later than the 60th day of the default when:


(1) A payment has not been received within 45 days of the due date or for any other defaults under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan; and


(2) Efforts to reach the Borrower or occupant have been unsuccessful.


(d) *Occupancy follow-ups and continued inspections.* If the Servicer is unable to determine the Borrower's occupancy status through the initial occupancy inspection, the Servicer must perform occupancy follow-ups and, if necessary, occupancy inspections every 25-35 days from the last inspection until the occupancy status is determined.


(e) *Occupancy inspections during bankruptcy.* When payments are not submitted and a Borrower is a debtor in bankruptcy, the Servicer must contact either the bankruptcy trustee or the Borrower's bankruptcy attorney, if the Borrower is represented, for information concerning the occupancy status of the property or if an occupancy inspection is necessary or requires authorization. If the Servicer cannot determine that the property is vacant or abandoned during the period of the automatic stay, the Servicer must document in the servicing case binder with evidence that it timely contacted the attorney or trustee.


(f) *Occupancy inspections on Trust Land.* Servicers must make an initial contact with the Tribe in advance of any occupancy inspection on Trust Land to review the Tribe's protocol for conducting occupancy inspections. After the initial contact, Servicers must contact the Tribe in advance of an occupancy inspection on Trust Land in accordance with the Tribe's protocol.


(g) *Alternative deadlines.* HUD may prescribe alternative extended deadlines to the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section through Section 184 Program Guidance.


(h) *Conflicts with other law.* Nothing in this section shall require a Servicer to conduct an inspection when prohibited by applicable Tribal, Federal, State, or local law.






