# § 140.3   Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply for the purpose of this part:


(a) *Convicted.* The act of being found guilty of or legally responsible for a criminal offense, and receiving a conviction or judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict or plea, and including convictions entered upon a plea of nolo contendere.


(b) *Country Narcotics Coordinator.* The individual assigned by the Chief of Mission of a U.S. diplomatic post, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, in each foreign country to coordinate United States government policies and activities within a country related to counternarcotics efforts.


(c) *Covered assistance.* Any assistance provided by an agency of the United States government under the FAA or AECA, except that it does *not* include:


(1) Assistance that by operation of the law is not subject to FAA Section 487, such as:


(i) Disaster relief and rehabilitation provided under Chapter 9 of Part I of the FAA; and


(ii) Assistance provided to small farmers when part of a community-based alternative development program under Part I or Chapter 4 of Part II of the FAA;


(2) Assistance in a total amount less than $100,000 regarding a specific activity, program, or agreement, except that the procedures in § 140.8 for recipients of scholarships, fellowships, and participant training shall apply regardless of amount. However, assistance shall be deemed covered assistance regardless of amount if the agency providing assistance has reasonable grounds to suspect that a covered individual or entity may be or may have been involved in drug trafficking; or


(3) Payments of dues or other assessed contributions to an international organization.


(d) *Covered country.* A country that has been determined by the President to be either a “major illicit drug producing” or “major drug-transit” country under Chapter 8 of Part I of the FAA. The list of covered countries is submitted to Congress annually and set forth in the International Narcotics Control Strategy Report.


(e) *Drug trafficking.* Any activity undertaken illicitly to cultivate, produce, manufacture, distribute, sell, finance or transport, or to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with others in illicit activities, including money laundering, relating to narcotic or psychotropic drugs, precursor chemicals, or other controlled substances.


(f) *Money laundering.* The process whereby proceeds of criminal activity are transported, transferred, transformed, converted, or intermingled with legally acquired funds, for the purpose of concealing or disguising the true nature, source, disposition, movement, or ownership of those proceeds. The goal of money laundering is to make funds derived from or associated with illicit activity appear to have been acquired legally.


(g) *Narcotics offense.* A violation of, or a conspiracy to violate, any law or regulation of the United States, a State or the District of Columbia, or a foreign country relating to narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances.




