# § 19.407   Consignee premises.

(a) *General.* A proprietor who receives spirits, denatured spirits, or wines by transfer in bond is the “consignee” of the shipment for purposes of this part. Upon arrival of an in-bond shipment at the consignee's premises or at the destination point specified in the carrier's transportation documents, the consignee must:


(1) Examine each conveyance to determine whether the securing devices, if any, are intact upon arrival. If the securing devices are not intact, the consignee must immediately notify the appropriate TTB officer before removal of any spirits from the conveyance;


(2) Determine, record, and report any losses as required by subpart R of this part;


(3) Acknowledge receipt of the shipment on the transfer record as required by § 19.621 or § 24.309 of this chapter and retain the original of the transfer record and any accompanying documents for their files. Retained copies of transfer records will become deposit records for purposes of this part; and


(4) Identify separately any spirits that were produced at an alcohol fuel plant. Those spirits may not be withdrawn, used, sold or otherwise disposed of for other than fuel use.


(b) *Packages.* When a consignee receives spirits in packages, the consignee must weigh each package. The consignee must record the receiving weight of each package on the accompanying package gauge record or on a list according to temporary package serial numbers prepared by the consignor. A copy of the package gauge record or list must remain with the original transfer record. However, the consignee is not required to weigh each package when:


(1) The transfer is made in a secured conveyance and the securing devices are intact on arrival;


(2) The individual packages were sealed by the consignor and are intact on arrival; or


(3) The requirement for weighing the packages at the consignor's premises has been waived under § 19.405(d)(3).


(c) *Bulk conveyances and pipelines.* When a consignee receives spirits, denatured spirits, or wines by bulk conveyance or by pipeline, the consignee must:


(1) Make a gauge and record the results on the transfer record in accordance with § 19.621 or § 24.309 of this chapter. However, the appropriate TTB officer may waive the gauging requirement for receipts by pipeline upon a finding that there will be no jeopardy to the revenue; and


(2) Ensure that each conveyance is empty and has been thoroughly drained.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87939, Nov. 6, 2024]






