# ยง 960.4-2-3   Rock characteristics.

(a) *Qualifying condition.* The present and expected characteristics of the host rock and surrounding units shall be capable of accommodating the thermal, chemical, mechanical, and radiation stresses expected to be induced by repository construction, operation, and closure and by expected interactions among the waste, host rock, ground water, and engineered components. The characteristics of and the processes operating within the geologic setting shall permit compliance with (1) the requirements specified in ยง 960.4-1 for radionuclide releases to the accessible environment and (2) the requirements set forth in 10 CFR 60.113 for radionuclide releases from the engineered-barrier system using reasonably available technology.


(b) *Favorable Conditions.* (1) A host rock that is sufficiently thick and laterally extensive to allow significant flexibility in selecting the depth, configuration, and location of the underground facility to ensure isolation.


(2) A host rock with a high thermal conductivity, a low coefficient of thermal expansion, or sufficient ductility to seal fractures induced by repository construction, operation, or closure or by interactions among the waste, host rock, ground water, and engineered components.


(c) *Potentially adverse conditions.* (1) Rock conditions that could require engineering measures beyond reasonably available technology for the construction, operation, and closure of the repository, if such measures are necessary to ensure waste containment or isolation.


(2) Potential for such phenomena as thermally induced fractures, the hydration or dehydration of mineral components, brine migration, or other physical, chemical, or radiation-related phenomena that could be expected to affect waste containment or isolation.


(3) A combination of geologic structure, geochemical and thermal properties, and hydrologic conditions in the host rock and surrounding units such that the heat generated by the waste could significantly decrease the isolation provided by the host rock as compared with pre-waste-emplacement conditions.




