# ยง 134.1204   The appeal petition.

(a) *Content.* The appeal petition must include the following information:


(1) A copy of the final SBA loan review decision that is being appealed and the date it was received by the borrower. A Notice of Paycheck Protection Program Forgiveness Payment does not provide a borrower with a right to appeal to OHA.


(2) A full and specific statement as to why the final SBA loan review decision is alleged to be erroneous, together with all factual information and legal arguments supporting the allegations. There is no required format for an appeal petition. However, the appeal petition must meet the following requirements:


(i) The maximum length of an appeal petition (not including attachments) is 20 pages. A table of authorities is required only for petitions citing more than twenty cases, regulations, or statutes.


(ii) Clearly label any exhibits and attachments.


(3) The name, address, telephone number, email address, and signature of the appellant or its attorney.


(b) *Dismissal.* An appeal petition that does not contain all of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section may be dismissed, with or without prejudice, at the Judge's own initiative, or upon motion of SBA.


(c) *Motion for more definite statement.* (1) SBA may, no later than five calendar days after receiving a Notice and Order on an appeal petition, move for an order to the appellant to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise comply with this section. A Judge may order a more definite appeal petition on his or her own initiative.


(2) A motion for a more definite appeal petition stays SBA's time for filing a response. The Judge will establish the time for filing and serving a response and will extend the close of the record as appropriate.


(3) If the appellant does not comply with the Judge's order to provide a more definite appeal petition or otherwise fails to comply with applicable regulations in this subpart, the Judge may dismiss the petition with prejudice.




