# § 63.489   Batch front-end process vents—monitoring equipment.

(a) *General requirements.* Each owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream that uses a control device to comply with the requirements in § 63.487(a)(2) or (3) or § 63.487(b)(2) or (3) shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.




(1) This monitoring equipment shall be in operation at all times when batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, that the owner or operator has selected to control are vented to the control device, or at all times when an aggregate batch vent stream is vented to the control device.


(2) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, the owner or operator shall operate control devices such that the daily average of monitored parameters, established as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, remains above the minimum level or below the maximum level, as appropriate. 


(b) *Batch front-end process vent and aggregate batch vent stream monitoring equipment.* The monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(11) of this section shall be installed as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The parameters to be monitored are specified in Table 6 of this subpart.




(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.


(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.


(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.


(2) Where a flare is used, except as specified in paragraph (b)(9) of this section, a device (including, but not limited to, a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame is required.




(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all batch front-end process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.


(4) Where a scrubber is used with an incinerator, boiler, or process heater in concert with the combustion of halogenated batch front-end process vents or halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, the following monitoring equipment is required for the scrubber: 


(i) A pH monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the pH of the scrubber effluent; and


(ii) A flow measurement device equipped with a continuous recorder shall be located at the scrubber influent for liquid flow. Gas stream flow shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section. 


(A) The owner or operator may determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop. 


(B) If the scrubber is subject to regulations in 40 CFR parts 264 through 266 that have required a determination of the liquid to gas (L/G) ratio prior to the applicable compliance date for this subpart, the owner or operator may determine gas stream flow by the method that had been utilized to comply with those regulations. A determination that was conducted prior to the compliance date for this subpart may be utilized to comply with this subpart if it is still representative. 


(C) The owner or operator may prepare and implement a gas stream flow determination plan that documents an appropriate method which will be used to determine the gas stream flow. The plan shall require determination of gas stream flow by a method which will at least provide a value for either a representative or the highest gas stream flow anticipated in the scrubber during representative operating conditions. The plan shall include a description of the methodology to be followed and an explanation of how the selected methodology will reliably determine the gas stream flow, and a description of the records that will be maintained to document the determination of gas stream flow. The owner or operator shall maintain the plan as specified in § 63.506(a).


(5) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device are required, each equipped with a continuous recorder.


(6) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit temperature (product side) monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.


(7) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(10) of this section, where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration steam flow, nitrogen flow, or pressure monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent of the flow rate, level, or pressure, or better, capable of recording the total regeneration steam flow or nitrogen flow, or pressure (gauge or absolute) for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.




(8) As an alternate to paragraphs (b)(5) through (b)(7) of this section, the owner or operator may install an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder.


(9) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), paragraph (b)(2) of this section no longer applies and instead the owner or operator of the affected source must comply with § 63.508 for the flare.




(10) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n), if the owner or operator vents emissions through a closed vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then the owner or operator must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (b)(10)(iii) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.


(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(B) of this section. The owner or operator must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.


(iii) Comply with paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (b)(10)(iii)(B) of this section.


(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.482, is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph, “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. The owner or operator must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.


(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.




(11) Where sorbent injection is used, the following monitoring equipment is required for the sorbent injection system:


(i) A sorbent injection rate monitoring device (*e.g.,* weigh belt, weigh hopper, hopper flow measurement device) installed in a position that provides a representative measurement equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the sorbent injection rate; and


(ii) A flow measurement device equipped with a continuous recorder to monitor the carrier gas flow rate.








(c) *Alternative monitoring parameters.* An owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required by paragraph (b) of this section. The request shall be submitted according to the procedures specified in § 63.492(e) and § 63.506(f). Approval shall be requested if the owner or operator: 


(1) Uses a control device other than those included in paragraph (b) of this section; or


(2) Uses one of the control devices included in paragraph (b) of this section, but seeks to monitor a parameter other than those specified in Table 6 of this subpart and paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Monitoring of bypass lines.* The owner or operator of a batch front-end process vent or aggregate batch vent stream using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from a control device used to comply with § 63.487(a) or § 63.487(b) shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph (d).




(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(3). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert emissions away from the control device and to the atmosphere; or


(2) Secure the bypass line damper or valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the damper or valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and emissions are not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be generated as specified in § 63.491(e)(4).


(3) For each affected source as described in § 63.480, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.481(n):


(i) The use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions (subject to the emission standards in § 63.487) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in this subpart is an emissions standards violation.


(ii) The last sentence in paragraph (d) of this section no longer applies. Instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section apply.


(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.165(e)(4) of subpart H of this part, equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part are not subject to this paragraph (d).


(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (d) of this section.

 


(e) *Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.* Parameter monitoring levels for batch front-end process vents and aggregate batch vent streams shall be established as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.


(1) For each parameter monitored under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter as denoted in Table 7 of this subpart, that indicates proper operation of the control device. The level shall be established in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.505. The level may be based upon a prior performance test conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA, and the owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.490, provided that the prior performance test meets the conditions of § 63.490(b)(3). 


(i) For batch front-end process vents using a control device to comply with § 63.487(a)(2), the established level shall reflect the control efficiency established as part of the most recent compliance demonstration specified in § 63.490(c)(2).




(ii) For aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.487(b)(2), the established level shall reflect the emission reduction requirement of either 90 percent or 20 ppmv specified in § 63.487(b)(2).


(iii) For batch front-end process vents using a control device to comply with § 63.487(a)(3) and aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.487 (b)(3), the established level shall reflect the level of control established as part of the most recent compliance demonstration specified in § 63.490(g).






(2) The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application as required in § 63.506(e)(5) or § 63.506(e)(8), respectively.


(3) The operating day shall be defined as part of establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall be submitted with the information in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The definition of operating day shall specify the time(s) at which an operating day begins and ends. The operating day shall not exceed 24 hours.



---

[N] [62 FR 46925, Sept. 5, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 38059, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36928, July 16, 2001; 76 FR 22589, Apr. 21, 2011; 89 FR 43247, May 16, 2024]




