# ยง 385.2007   Time (Rule 2007).

(a) *Computation.* (1) Except as otherwise required by law, any period of time prescribed or allowed by statute or Commission rule or order is computed to exclude the day of the act or event from which the time period begins to run.


(2) The last day of any time period is included in the time period, unless it is a Saturday; Sunday; a day on which the Commission closes due to adverse conditions and does not reopen prior to its official close of business, even though some official duties may continue through telework-ready employees; part-day holiday that affects the Commission; or legal public holiday as designated in section 6103 of title 5, U.S. Code. In each case the period does not end until the close of the Commission business of the next day which is not a Saturday; Sunday; a day on which the Commission closes due to adverse conditions and does not reopen prior to its official close of business even though some official duties may continue through telework-ready employees; part-day holiday that affects the Commission; or legal public holiday.


(b) *Date of issuance of Commission rules or orders.* (1) Any Commission rule or order is deemed issued when the Secretary does the earliest of the following:


(i) Posts a full-text copy in the Division of Public Information;


(ii) Mails or delivers copies of the order to the parties; or


(iii) Makes such copies public.


(2) Any date of issuance specified in a rule or order need not be the date on which the rule or order is adopted by the Commission.


(c) *Effective date of Commission rules or orders.* (1) Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, rules or orders are effective on the date of issuance.


(2) Any initial or revised initial decision issued by a presiding officer is effective when the initial or revised initial decision is final under Rule 708(d).



---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982, as amended by Order 375, 49 FR 21316, May 21, 1984; Order 376, 49 FR 21707, May 23, 1984; Order 645, 69 FR 2504, Jan. 16, 2004; 84 FR 3983, Feb. 14, 2019]




