# § 173.153   Exceptions for Division 6.1 (poisonous materials).

(a) *General.* Exceptions for hazardous materials shipments in the following paragraphs are permitted only if this section is referenced for the specific hazardous material in the § 172.101 table of this subchapter.


(b) *Limited quantities.* The exceptions in this paragraph do not apply to poison-by-inhalation materials. Limited quantities of poisonous material (Division 6.1) in Packing Groups II and III are excepted from the labeling requirements, unless the material is offered for transportation or transported by aircraft, and are excepted from the specification packaging requirements of this subchapter when packaged in combination packagings according to this paragraph. For transportation by aircraft, the package must also conform to applicable requirements of § 173.27 of this part (*e.g.,* authorized materials, inner packaging quantity limits and closure securement) and only hazardous material authorized aboard passenger-carrying aircraft may be transported as a limited quantity. A limited quantity package that conforms to the provisions of this section is not subject to the shipping paper requirements of subpart C of part 172 of this subchapter, unless the material meets the definition of a hazardous substance, hazardous waste, marine pollutant, or is offered for transportation and transported by aircraft or vessel, and is eligible for the exceptions provided in § 173.156 of this part. In addition, shipments of limited quantities are not subject to subpart F (Placarding) of part 172 of this subchapter. Each package must conform to the packaging requirements of subpart B of this part and may not exceed 30 kg (66 pounds) gross weight. Except for transportation by aircraft, the following combination packagings are authorized:


(1) For poisonous materials in Packing Group II, inner packagings not over 100 mL (3.38 ounces) each for liquids or 0.5 kg (1.1 pounds) each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging. Inner packagings containing a liquid poisonous material which is also a drug or medicine in Packing Group II may be increased to not over 250 mL (8 ounces) each and packed in a strong outer packaging.


(2) For poisonous materials in Packing Group III, inner packagings not over 5 L (1.3 gallons) each for liquids or 5.0 kg (11 pounds) each for solids, packed in a strong outer packaging.


(c) [Reserved]

(d) *Reverse logistics.* Hazardous materials meeting the definition of “reverse logistics” under § 171.8 of this subchapter and in compliance with paragraph (b) of this section may be offered for transport and transported in highway transportation in accordance with § 173.157.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-224, 55 FR 52634, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended by Amdt. 173-231, 57 FR 52940, Nov. 5, 1992; 66 FR 45381, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 45033, July 31, 2003; 69 FR 76156, Dec. 20, 2004; 71 FR 14603, Mar. 22, 2006; 71 FR 54938, Sept. 20, 2006; 76 FR 3374, Jan. 19, 2011; 78 FR 1114, Jan. 7, 2013; 81 FR 18539, Mar. 31, 2016; 87 FR 79776, Dec. 27, 2022]




