# § 2569.201   What terms do I need to know to understand this subpart?

(a) *Allotment* is an allocation to an Alaska Native of land which shall be deemed the homestead of the allottee and his or her heirs in perpetuity, and shall be inalienable and nontaxable except as otherwise provided by Congress;


(b) *Available Federal lands* means land in Alaska that meets the requirements of 43 U.S.C. 1629g-1(a)(1) and that the BLM has certified to be free of known contamination.


(c) *Eligible Individual* means a Native Veteran who meets the qualifications listed in 43 U.S.C. 1629g-1(a)(2) and has not already received an allotment pursuant to the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197, chapter 2469) (as in effect on December 17, 1971); or section 14(h)(5) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(5)); or section 41 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629g);


(d) *Mineral* means coal, oil, natural gas, other leasable minerals, locatable minerals, and saleable minerals other than sand and gravel.


(e) *Native* means a person who meets the qualifications listed in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b));


(f) *Native corporation* means a regional corporation or village corporation as defined in sections 3(g) and (j) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602);


(g) *Realty Service Provider* means a Public Law 93-638 “Contract” or Public Law 103-413 “Compact” Tribe or Tribal organization that provides Trust Real Estate Services for the Bureau of Indian Affairs;


(h) *Receipt date* means the date on which an application for an allotment is physically received by the BLM Alaska State Office, whether the application is delivered by hand, by mail, or by delivery service;


(i) *Segregate* has the same meaning as in 43 CFR 2091.0-5(b);


(j) *Selection* means an area of land that has been identified in an application for an allotment under this part;


(k) *State* means the State of Alaska;


(l) *State or Native corporation selected land* means land that is selected, as of the receipt date of the allotment application, by the State of Alaska under the Statehood Act of July 7, 1958, Public Law 85-508, 72 Stat. 339, as amended, or the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) of December 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2371, or by a Native corporation under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of December 18, 1971, 43 U.S.C. 1611 and 1613, and that has not been conveyed to the State or Native corporation;


(m) *Substantive error* means an error or omission in an application of information that is immediately necessary to determine if you are eligible to apply for an allotment. Substantive errors include, but are not limited to, missing land descriptions, missing name or inability to contact the applicant, and missing forms required under § 2569.404, if applicable. When a person corrects this type of error, the correction could show the applicant has an uncorrectable defect like not being an Alaska Native.


(n) *Technical error* means types of errors that do not rise to the level of substantive error or uncorrectable defect. For instance, not signing your application is an easily correctable error and correcting the error by signing the application cannot raise any new issues which could cause an application to be rejected.


(o) *Uncorrectable defect* means information provided with an application which provides obvious evidence that you are not qualified to receive an allotment. That evidence includes a lack of qualifying military service or proof of Alaska Native decent.


(p) *Valid relinquishment* means a signed document from a person authorized by a board resolution from a Native corporation or the State that terminates its rights, title and interest in a specific area of Native corporation or State selected land. A relinquishment may be conditioned upon conformance of a selection to the Plat of Survey and the identity of the individual applicant; and


(q) *Veteran* means a person who meets the qualifications listed in 38 U.S.C. 101(2) and served in the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, including the reserve components thereof, during the period between August 5, 1964, and December 31, 1971.




