# § 38.629   Outer burial receptacles.

(a) *Definitions*—*Outer burial receptacle.* For purposes of this section, an outer burial receptacle means a graveliner, burial vault, or other similar type of container for a casket.


(b) *Purpose.* (1) This section provides for payment of a monetary allowance for an outer burial receptacle for any interment with casketed remains in a VA national cemetery where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle has been used in lieu of a Government-furnished graveliner and, for any interment on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408 where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle has been used.


(2) This section also provides for payment of a monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at the time of interment, for burials on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant awarded to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408.


(3) This section also provides for reimbursement of the cost of pre-placed outer burial receptacles that are installed as part of construction or expansion of a cemetery that is the subject of a grant awarded on or after January 5, 2023, to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408.


(c) *Subsequent interments.* In burials where a casket already exists in a grave with or without an outer burial receptacle, subsequent placement of a second casket in an outer burial receptacle will not be permitted in the same grave unless the cemetery director determines that the already interred casket will not be damaged.


(d) *Payment of monetary allowance for privately purchased outer burial receptacles.* (1) VA will pay a monetary allowance for each casket burial in a VA national cemetery where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle was used in lieu of a Government-furnished graveliner. Payment will be made to the person identified in records contained in the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) electronic ordering system as the person who paid for the outer burial receptacle. No application is required to receive payment of this monetary allowance as the payment is processed automatically based on entry in the system.


(2) VA will pay a monetary allowance for each casket burial in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408, where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle was used on or after January 5, 2023. The person who paid for the outer burial receptacle must submit a request for payment of the allowance on the appropriate VA form. The request must be verified by the cemetery director where the burial occurred.


(e) *Payment of monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at time of interment.* (1) VA will pay a monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at the time of interment for burials on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408. Such payments may be issued on a quarterly basis and will be paid to the State agency or Tribal organization.


(2) VA will pay the allowance only if a State or Tribal organization submits a request for payment on the appropriate VA form. Requests may be submitted on a quarterly basis for the total number of burials that required an outer burial receptacle in that quarter and for which a fee for the outer burial receptacle was not charged to the decedent's family or other responsible party. Requests for payment under this section for burials that occur from January 5, 2023, through December 31, 2024, must be submitted by December 31, 2025. Requests for payment under this section for burials that occur on or after January 1, 2025, must be submitted within 1 year of interment.


(3) No payment may be made for burials where a fee for the outer burial receptacle was charged to the decedent's family or other responsible party.


(f) *Amount of the monetary allowance.* (1) The monetary allowance will be the average cost, as determined by VA, of Government-furnished graveliners, less the administrative costs incurred by VA in processing and paying the allowance.


(i) The average cost of Government-furnished graveliners will be based upon the actual average cost to the Government of such graveliners during the most recent fiscal year ending prior to the start of the calendar year for which the amount of the allowance will be used. This average cost will be determined by taking VA's total cost during that fiscal year for single-depth graveliners which were procured for placement at the time of interment and dividing it by the total number of such graveliners procured by VA during that fiscal year. The calculation shall exclude both graveliners procured and pre-placed in gravesites as part of cemetery gravesite development projects and all double-depth graveliners.


(ii) The administrative costs incurred by VA will consist of those costs that relate to processing and paying an allowance, as determined by VA, for the calendar year ending prior to the start of the calendar year for which the amount of the allowance will be used.


(2) The amount of the allowance for each calendar year will be published in the “Notices” section of the _Federal Register._ The _Federal Register_ notice will also provide, as information, the determined average cost of Government-furnished graveliners and the determined amount of the administrative costs to be deducted.


(g) *Reimbursement for pre-placed outer burial receptacles.* (1) VA will reimburse the cost of outer burial receptacles that are pre-placed as part of new construction, expansion, or improvement of a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408 if the grant was awarded on or after January 5, 2023. The reimbursement will be paid to the State or Tribal organization or, if designated by the State or Tribal organization representative, the State or Tribal veterans cemetery for which such project is being carried out, or to any other State or Tribal organization, agency, or instrumentality.


(2) States and Tribal organizations must submit a request for reimbursement of the cost of pre-placed outer burial receptacles using Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs, with supporting documentation. The Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program must review and certify the request for payment. Funds paid under this section for pre-placed outer burial receptacles, as part of an approved establishment, expansion, and improvement project shall be used solely for payment of such outer burial receptacles. As a condition for payment, the representative of the State or Tribal organization must submit to VA an invoice reporting the cost for purchase and delivery of outer burial receptacles.


(h) *Audits.* A State or Tribal organization that seeks reimbursement for the cost of outer burial receptacles under this section will be subject to inspections, audits, and reports in accordance with § 39.122 of this chapter.



---

[N] [70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 82181, Oct. 10, 2024]




