# ยง 317.702   General reinstatement: SES career appointees.

(a) *Eligibility for general reinstatement.* A former SES career appointee who meets the following conditions is eligible for reinstatement under this section:


(1) The individual completed an SES probationary period under a previous SES career appointment or was exempted from that requirement; and


(2) The individual's separation from his or her last SES career appointment was not a removal under subpart C of part 359 of this chapter for failure to be recertified as a senior executive; or a removal under subpart E of part 359 of this chapter for less than fully successful executive performance; or under 5 U.S.C. 1207 by order of the Merit Systems Protection Board as a result of a disciplinary action initiated by the Special Counsel under 5 U.S.C. 1206; or under 5 U.S.C. 7532 (National Security); or under subpart F of part 752 of this chapter for misconduct, neglect of duty, or malfeasance; or a resignation after receipt of a notice proposing or directing removal under any of the above conditions. Removal for failure to accept a directed reassignment to another commuting area, or to accompany a position in a transfer of function to another commuting area, does not preclude reinstatement to the SES unless the appointment to the original position included acceptance of a written nationwide mobility agreement or policy.


(b) *Applying for reinstatement; time limit.* Application for reinstatement under this section shall be made directly to the agency in which SES employment is sought. There is no time limit for reinstatement under this section.


(c) *Qualifications.* The individual must meet the qualification requirements of the position to which reinstated. The agency makes this determination. 


(d) *Tenure upon reinstatement.* An individual who is reinstated under ยง 317.702 becomes an SES career appointee. 



---

[N] [54 FR 9759, Mar. 8, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 172, Jan. 3, 1991]




