# § 98.91   Reporting threshold.

(a) You must report GHG emissions under this subpart if electronics manufacturing production processes, as defined in § 98.90, are performed at your facility and your facility meets the requirements of either § 98.2(a)(1) or (2). To calculate total annual GHG emissions for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton CO_2_e per year emission threshold in § 98.2(a)(2), follow the requirements of § 98.2(b), with one exception. Rather than using the calculation methodologies in § 98.93 to calculate emissions from electronics manufacturing production processes, calculate emissions of each fluorinated GHG from electronics manufacturing production processes by using paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as appropriate, and then sum the emissions of each fluorinated GHG and account for fluorinated heat transfer fluid emissions by using paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(1) If you manufacture semiconductors or MEMS you must calculate annual production process emissions resulting from the use of each input gas for threshold applicability purposes using either the default emission factors shown in table I-1 to this subpart and equation I-1A to this section, or the consumption of each input gas, the default emission factors shown in table I-2 to this subpart, and equation I-1B to this section.


(2) If you manufacture LCDs, you must calculate annual production process emissions resulting from the use of each input gas for threshold applicability purposes using either the default emission factors shown in table I-1 to this subpart and equation I-2A to this section or the consumption of each input gas, the default emission factors shown in table I-2 to this subpart, and equation I-2B to this section.


(3) If you manufacture PVs, you must calculate annual production process emissions resulting from the use of each input gas i for threshold applicability purposes using gas-appropriate GWP values shown in table A-1 to subpart A of this part, the default emission factors shown in table I-2 to this subpart, and equation I-3 to this section.


(4) You must calculate total annual production process emissions for threshold applicability purposes using equation I-4 to this section.


(b) You must calculate annual manufacturing capacity of a facility using equation I-5 to this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 74818, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 10380, Feb. 22, 2012; 78 FR 68202, Nov. 13, 2013; 89 FR 31905, Apr. 25, 2024]










