# § 315.607   Noncompetitive appointment of present and former Peace Corps personnel.

(a) An agency in the executive branch may appoint noncompetitively, for other than temporary appointment, an individual:


(1) Who has completed no less than 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more under section 7(a) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2506) which pertains to the appointment of Peace Corps staff (not volunteers);


(2) Whom the Director of the Peace Corps certifies as having satisfactorily served under such an appointment; and 


(3) Who meets OPM qualification standards—including any written test requirements—for the position in question. 


(4) Who is not a Peace Corps volunteer as this paragraph does not apply to Peace Corps volunteers. 


(b) *Time limitations.* (1) An individual's eligibility under this section extends through September 30, 1982, or until 3 years after separation from qualifying service with the Peace Corps, whichever is later.


(2) An agency may not extend this period.


(c) *Conditions.* Any law, Executive order, or regulation which disqualifies an applicant for appointment in the competitive service also disqualifies an applicant for appointment under this section. 


(d) *Acquisition of competitive status.* A person appointed under paragraph (a) of this section acquires competitive status automatically upon completion of probation. 


(e) *Tenure on appointment.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a person appointed under paragraph (a) of this section becomes a career-conditional employee. 


(2) A person appointed under paragraph (a) of this section becomes a career employee if excepted from the service requirement for career tenure by § 315.201(c). 



---

[N] [45 FR 43365, June 27, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 35079, July 7, 1981; 54 FR 37092, Sept. 7, 1989] 




