# § 52.39   Finality of early site permit determinations.

(a) *Commission finality.* (1) Notwithstanding any provision in 10 CFR 50.109, while an early site permit is in effect under §§ 52.26 or 52.33, the Commission may not change or impose new site characteristics, design parameters, or terms and conditions, including emergency planning requirements, on the early site permit unless the Commission:


(i) Determines that a modification is necessary to bring the permit or the site into compliance with the Commission's regulations and orders applicable and in effect at the time the permit was issued;


(ii) Determines the modification is necessary to assure adequate protection of the public health and safety or the common defense and security;


(iii) Determines that a modification is necessary based on an update under paragraph (b) of this section; or


(iv) Issues a variance requested under paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) In making the findings required for issuance of a construction permit or combined license, or the findings required by § 52.103, or in any enforcement hearing other than one initiated by the Commission under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if the application for the construction permit or combined license references an early site permit, the Commission shall treat as resolved those matters resolved in the proceeding on the application for issuance or renewal of the early site permit, except as provided for in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.


(i) If the early site permit approved an emergency plan (or major features thereof) that is in use by a licensee of a nuclear power plant, the Commission shall treat as resolved changes to the early site permit emergency plan (or major features thereof) that are identical to changes made to the licensee's emergency plans in compliance with § 50.54(q) of this chapter occurring after issuance of the early site permit.


(ii) If the early site permit approved an emergency plan (or major features thereof) that is not in use by a licensee of a nuclear power plant, the Commission shall treat as resolved changes that are equivalent to those that could be made under § 50.54(q) of this chapter without prior NRC approval had the emergency plan been in use by a licensee.


(b) *Updating of early site permit-emergency preparedness.* An applicant for a construction permit, operating license, or combined license who has filed an application referencing an early site permit issued under this subpart shall update the emergency preparedness information that was provided under § 52.17(b), and discuss whether the updated information materially changes the bases for compliance with applicable NRC requirements.


(c) *Hearings and petitions.* (1) In any proceeding for the issuance of a construction permit, operating license, or combined license referencing an early site permit, contentions on the following matters may be litigated in the same manner as other issues material to the proceeding:


(i) The nuclear power reactor proposed to be built does not fit within one or more of the site characteristics or design parameters included in the early site permit;


(ii) One or more of the terms and conditions of the early site permit have not been met;


(iii) A variance requested under paragraph (d) of this section is unwarranted or should be modified;


(iv) New or additional information is provided in the application that substantially alters the bases for a previous NRC conclusion or constitutes a sufficient basis for the Commission to modify or impose new terms and conditions related to emergency preparedness; or


(v) Any significant environmental issue that was not resolved in the early site permit proceeding, or any issue involving the impacts of construction and operation of the facility that was resolved in the early site permit proceeding for which significant new information has been identified.


(2) Any person may file a petition requesting that the site characteristics, design parameters, or terms and conditions of the early site permit be modified, or that the permit be suspended or revoked. The petition will be considered in accordance with § 2.206 of this chapter. Before construction commences, the Commission shall consider the petition and determine whether any immediate action is required. If the petition is granted, an appropriate order will be issued. Construction under the construction permit or combined license will not be affected by the granting of the petition unless the order is made immediately effective. Any change required by the Commission in response to the petition must meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(d) *Variances.* An applicant for a construction permit, operating license, or combined license referencing an early site permit may include in its application a request for a variance from one or more site characteristics, design parameters, or terms and conditions of the early site permit, or from the site safety analysis report. In determining whether to grant the variance, the Commission shall apply the same technically relevant criteria applicable to the application for the original or renewed early site permit. Once a construction permit or combined license referencing an early site permit is issued, variances from the early site permit will not be granted for that construction permit or combined license.


(e) *Early site permit amendment.* The holder of an early site permit may not make changes to the early site permit, or the site safety analysis report, without prior Commission approval. The request for a change to the early site permit must be in the form of an application for a license amendment and must meet the requirements of 10 CFR 50.90 and 50.92.


(f) *Information requests.* Except for information requests seeking to verify compliance with the current licensing basis of the early site permit, information requests to the holder of an early site permit must be evaluated before issuance to ensure that the burden to be imposed on respondents is justified in view of the potential safety significance of the issue to be addressed in the requested information. Each evaluation performed by the NRC staff must be in accordance with 10 CFR 50.54(f), and must be approved by the Executive Director for Operations or his or her designee before issuance of the request.



---

[N] [72 FR 49517, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020; 89 FR 57720, July 16, 2024]






