# ยง 63.11426   What definitions apply to this subpart?

The terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in ยง 63.2 for terms used in the applicable provisions of subpart A of this part, and in this section as follows:


*Bag leak detection system* means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring particulate matter (dust) loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (baghouse) in order to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.


*Grid casting facility* means a facility which includes all lead melting pots, pots that remelt scrap from onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes, and machines used for casting the grid used in lead acid batteries.


*Lead acid battery component manufacturing plant* means any plant that does not produce a final lead acid battery product but at which one or more of the following processes is conducted to develop a product for use in lead acid batteries: grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations, and lead oxide manufacturing.


*Lead acid battery manufacturing plant* means any plant that produces a storage battery using lead and lead compounds for the plates and sulfuric acid for the electrolyte.


*Lead oxide manufacturing facility* means a facility that produces lead oxide from lead for use in lead acid batteries, including lead oxide production and product recovery operations. Local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide production areas are not part of the lead oxide manufacturing facility.


*Lead reclamation facility* means a facility that casts remelted lead scrap generated by onsite lead acid battery manufacturing processes into lead ingots for use in the battery manufacturing process, and which is not a furnace affected under subpart X of this part. Lead scrap remelting processes that are used directly (not cast into an ingot first) in a grid casting facility or a three-process operations facility are parts of those facilities and are not part of a lead reclamation facility.


*Other lead-emitting operation* means any operation at a plant involved in the manufacture of lead acid batteries from which lead emissions are collected and ducted to the atmosphere and which is not part of a grid casting, lead oxide manufacturing, lead reclamation, paste mixing, or three-process operation facility, or a furnace affected under subpart X of this part. These operations also include local exhaust ventilation or building ventilation exhausts serving lead oxide production areas.


*Paste mixing facility* means a facility including lead oxide storage, conveying, weighing, metering, and charging operations; paste blending, handling, and cooling operations; and plate pasting, takeoff, cooling, and drying operations.


*Three-process operation facility* means a facility including those processes involved with plate stacking, burning or strap casting, and assembly of elements into the battery case.


*Total enclosure* means a containment building that is completely enclosed with a floor, walls, and a roof to prevent exposure to the elements and that has limited openings to allow access and egress for people and vehicles.



---

[N] [88 FR 11596, Feb. 23, 2023]






