# ยง 63.803   Work practice standards.

(a) *Work practice implementation plan.* (1) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall prepare and maintain a written work practice implementation plan that defines environmentally desirable work practices for each wood furniture operation manufacturing operation and addresses each of the work practice standards presented in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section. The plan shall be developed no more than 60 days after the compliance date.


(2) The written work practice implementation plan shall be available for inspection by the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) upon request. If the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) determines that the work practice implementation plan does not include sufficient mechanisms for ensuring that the work practice standards are being implemented, the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) may require the affected source to modify the plan. Revisions or modifications to the plan do not require a revision of the source's Title V permit.


(3) The inspection and maintenance plan required by paragraph (c) of this section and the formulation assessment plan for finishing operations required by paragraph (l) of this section are also reviewable by the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority).


(b) *Operator training course.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall train all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who are involved in finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations, use of manufacturing equipment, or implementation of the requirements of this subpart. All new personnel, those hired after the compliance date of the standard, shall be trained upon hiring. All existing personnel, those hired before the compliance date of the standard, shall be trained within six months of the compliance date of the standard. All personnel shall be given refresher training annually. The affected source shall maintain a copy of the training program with the work practice implementation plan. The training program shall include, at a minimum, the following: 


(1) A list of all current personnel by name and job description that are required to be trained; 


(2) An outline of the subjects to be covered in the initial and refresher training for each position or group of personnel; 


(3) Lesson plans for courses to be given at the initial and the annual refresher training that include, at a minimum, appropriate application techniques, appropriate cleaning and washoff procedures, appropriate equipment setup and adjustment to minimize finishing material usage and overspray, and appropriate management of cleanup wastes; and 


(4) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate and document successful completion. 


(c) *Inspection and maintenance plan.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and maintain with the work practice implementation plan a written leak inspection and maintenance plan that specifies: 


(1) A minimum visual inspection frequency of once per month for all equipment used to transfer or apply coatings, adhesives, or organic HAP solvents;


(2) An inspection schedule; 


(3) Methods for documenting the date and results of each inspection and any repairs that were made; 


(4) The timeframe between identifying the leak and making the repair, which adheres, at a minimum, to the following schedule: 


(i) A first attempt at repair (e.g., tightening of packing glands) shall be made no later than five calendar days after the leak is detected; and 


(ii) Final repairs shall be made within 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, unless the leaking equipment is to be replaced by a new purchase, in which case repairs shall be completed within three months. 


(d) *Cleaning and washoff solvent accounting system.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall develop an organic HAP solvent accounting form to record:


(1) The quantity and type of organic HAP solvent used each month for washoff and cleaning, as defined in ยง 63.801 of this subpart;


(2) The number of pieces washed off, and the reason for the washoff; and


(3) The quantity of spent organic HAP solvent generated from each washoff and cleaning operation each month, and whether it is recycled onsite or disposed offsite.


(e) *Chemical composition of cleaning and washoff solvents.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall not use cleaning or washoff solvents that contain any of the pollutants listed in Table 4 to this subpart, in concentrations subject to MSDS reporting as required by OSHA. 


(f) *Spray booth cleaning.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall not use compounds containing more than 8.0 percent by weight of VOC for cleaning spray booth components other than conveyors, continuous coaters and their enclosures, or metal filters, or plastic filters unless the spray booth is being refurbished. If the spray booth is being refurbished, that is the spray booth coating or other protective material used to cover the booth is being replaced, the affected source shall use no more than 1.0 gallon of organic HAP solvent per booth to prepare the surface of the booth prior to applying the booth coating.


(g) *Storage requirements.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall use normally closed containers for storing finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff materials. 


(h) *Application equipment requirements.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall not use conventional air spray guns except when all emissions from the finishing application station are routed to a functioning control device.


(i) *Line cleaning.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall pump or drain all organic HAP solvent used for line cleaning into a normally closed container.


(j) *Gun cleaning.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall collect all organic HAP solvent used to clean spray guns into a normally closed container.


(k) *Washoff operations.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall control emissions from washoff operations by:


(1) Using normally closed tanks for washoff; and


(2) Minimizing dripping by tilting or rotating the part to drain as much solvent as possible.


(l) *Formulation assessment plan for finishing operations.* Each owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and maintain with the work practice implementation plan a formulation assessment plan that:


(1) Identifies VHAP from the list presented in Table 5 of this subpart that are being used in finishing operations by the affected source;


(2) Establishes a baseline level of usage by the affected source, for each VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) of this section. The baseline usage level shall be the highest annual usage from 1994, 1995, or 1996, for each VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) of this section. For formaldehyde, the baseline level of usage shall be based on the amount of free formaldehyde present in the finishing material when it is applied. For styrene, the baseline level of usage shall be an estimate of unreacted styrene, which shall be calculated by multiplying the amount of styrene monomer in the finishing material, when it is applied, by a factor of 0.16. Sources using a control device to reduce emissions may adjust their usage based on the overall control efficiency of the control system, which is determined using the equation in ยง 63.805 (d) or (e).


(3) Tracks the annual usage of each VHAP identified in (l)(1) by the affected source that is present in amounts subject to MSDS reporting as required by OSHA.


(4) If, after November 1998, the annual usage of the VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) exceeds its baseline level, then the owner or operator of the affected source shall provide a written notification to the permitting authority that describes the amount of the increase and explains the reasons for exceedance of the baseline level. The following explanations would relieve the owner or operator from further action, unless the affected source is not in compliance with any State regulations or requirements for that VHAP:


(i) The exceedance is no more than 15.0 percent above the baseline level;


(ii) Usage of the VHAP is below the de minimis level presented in Table 5 of this subpart for that VHAP (sources using a control device to reduce emissions may adjust their usage based on the overall control efficiency of the control system, which is determined using the procedures in ยง 63.805 (d) or (e); 


(iii) The affected source is in compliance with its State's air toxic regulations or guidelines for the VHAP; or 


(iv) The source of the pollutant is a finishing material with a VOC content of no more than 1.0 kg VOC/kg solids (1.0 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied. 


(5) If none of the above explanations are the reason for the increase, the owner or operator shall confer with the permitting authority to discuss the reason for the increase and whether there are practical and reasonable technology-based solutions for reducing the usage. The evaluation of whether a technology is reasonable and practical shall be based on cost, quality, and marketability of the product, whether the technology is being used successfully by other wood furniture manufacturing operations, or other criteria mutually agreed upon by the permitting authority and owner or operator. If there are no practical and reasonable solutions, the facility need take no further action. If there are solutions, the owner or operator shall develop a plan to reduce usage of the pollutant to the extent feasible. The plan shall address the approach to be used to reduce emissions, a timetable for implementing the plan, and a schedule for submitting notification of progress. 


(6) If, after November 1998, an affected source uses a VHAP of potential concern listed in table 6 of this subpart for which a baseline level has not been previously established, then the baseline level shall be established as the *de minimis* level provided in that same table for that chemical. The affected source shall track the annual usage of each VHAP of potential concern identified in this paragraph that is present in amounts subject to MSDS reporting as required by OSHA. If usage of the VHAP of potential concern exceeds the *de minimis* level listed in table 6 of this subpart for that chemical, then the affected source shall provide an explanation to the permitting authority that documents the reason for the exceedance of the *de minimis* level. If the explanation is not one of those listed in paragraphs (l)(4)(i) through (l)(4)(iv) of this section, the affected source shall follow the procedures in paragraph (l)(5) of this section.



---

[N] [60 FR 62936, Dec. 7, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 71380, Dec. 28, 1998; 68 FR 37353, June 23, 2003; 76 FR 72073, Nov. 21, 2011]




