# § 21.9720   Certification of enrollment.

Except as stated in § 21.9680, an institution of higher learning must certify an eligible individual's enrollment before he or she may receive educational assistance.


(a) *Institutions of higher learning must certify most enrollments.* VA does not, as a condition of payment of tuition assistance top-up or advance payment, require institutions of higher learning to certify the enrollments of eligible individuals who either are seeking tuition assistance top-up or, in the cases described in § 21.9715, are seeking an advance payment. VA does not require organizations or entities offering a licensing or certification test to certify that the eligible individual took the test. In all other cases, the institution of higher learning must certify the eligible individual's enrollment before he or she may receive educational assistance. This certification must be in a form specified by the Secretary and contain such information as specified by the Secretary.


(b) *Length of the enrollment period covered by the enrollment certification.* (1) Institutions of higher learning that offer courses on a term, quarter, or semester basis will report enrollment for the term, quarter, semester, ordinary school year, or ordinary school year plus summer term. If the certification covers two or more terms, the institution of higher learning will report each term, quarter, or semester separately.


(2) Institutions of higher learning organized on a year-round basis that do not offer courses on a term, quarter, or semester basis will report enrollment for the length of the course. The certification will include a report of the dates during which the institution of higher learning closes for any intervals designated in its approval data as breaks between school years.


(3) When an eligible individual enrolls in a distance learning program leading to a standard college degree, the institution of higher learning's certification will include—


(i) The enrollment date; and


(ii) The ending date for the period being certified. If the institution of higher learning has no prescribed maximum time for completion, the certification must include an ending date based on the educational institution's estimate for completion.


