# § 1.42A-1   General tax credit for taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and before January 1, 1979.

(a)(1) *Allowance of credit for taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977.* Subject to the special rules of paragraphs (b)(1), (c) and (d) and the limitation of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an individual is allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by chapter 1 for the taxable year in the case of taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977, an amount equal to the greater of—


(i) 2 percent of so much of the individual's taxable income as does not exceed $9,000, or


(ii) $35 multiplied by the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled for the taxable year under section 151 (b) and (e) and the regulations thereunder (relating to allowance of deductions for personal exemptions with respect to the individual, the individual's spouse, and dependents).


(2) *Allowance of credit for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979.* Subject to the special rules of paragraphs (b)(2), (c) and (d) and the limitation of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an individual is allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by section 1, or against the tax imposed in lieu of the tax imposed by section 1, for the taxable year in the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979, an amount equal to the greater of—


(i) 2 percent of so much of the individual's taxable income for the taxable year, reduced by the zero bracket amount determined under section 63 (d), as does not exceed $9,000, or


(ii) $35 multiplied by the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled for the taxable year under section 151 and the regulations thereunder (relating to allowance of deductions for personal exemptions).


(b) *Married individuals filing separate returns*—(1) *For taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977.* In the case of taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977, a married individual who files a separate return for the taxable year is allowed as a credit for the taxable year an amount equal to either—


(i) 2 percent of so much of the individual's taxable income as does not exceed $4,500, or


(ii) $35 multiplied by the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled for the taxable year under section 151 (b) and (e) and the regulations thereunder, but only if both the individual and the individual's spouse elect to have the credit determined in the manner described in this subdivision (ii) for their corresponding taxable years. The elections shall be made by both married individuals separately calculating and claiming the credit in the manner and amount described in this subdivision (ii) on their separate returns for their corresponding taxable years. The rules of section 142 (a) and the regulations thereunder (relating to individuals not eligible for the standard deduction) in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977, apply to determine whether the taxable years of the individual and the individual's spouse correspond to each other. For purposes of applying this subdivision (ii), the total number of deductions for personal exemptions shall not include any additional exemptions to which the individual may be entitled based upon age of 65 or more or blindness under section 151 (c) or (d) and the regulations thereunder. 


(2) *For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979.* In the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979, a married individual who files a separate return for the taxable year shall determine the amount of the credit for the taxable year under section 42(a)(2) and § 1.42A-1(a)(2)(ii).


(3) *Determination of marital status.* For purposes of this paragraph, the determination of marital status shall be made as provided by section 143 and the regulations thereunder (relating to the determination of marital status).


(c) *Return for short period on change of annual accounting period.* In computing the credit provided by section 42 and this section for a period of less than 12 months (hereinafter referred to as a “short period”), where income is to be annualized under section 443(b)(1) in order to determine the tax—


(1) The credit allowed by paragraphs (a) (1)(i) and (2)(i) of this section shall be computed based upon the amount of the taxable income annualized under the rules of section 443(b)(1) and § 1.443-1(b)(1), or


(2)(i) The credit allowed by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section shall be computed based upon the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled for the short period under section 151 (b) and (e) and the regulations thereunder (relating to allowance of deductions for personal exemptions with respect to the individual, the individual's spouse, and dependents), and 


(ii) The credit allowed by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section shall be computed based upon the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled for the short period under section 151 and the regulations thereunder (relating to allowance of deductions for personal exemptions).


(d) *Certain persons not eligible*—(1) *Estates and trusts.* The credit provided by section 42 and this section shall not be allowed in the case of any estate or trust. Thus, the credit shall not be allowed to an estate of an individual in bankruptcy or to an estate of a deceased individual. However, in the case of a deceased individual, the credit shall be allowed on the decedent's final return filed by his executor or other representative. Also, the credit provided by section 42 and this section shall be allowed in the case of a return filed by an estate of an infant, incompetent, or an individual under a disability. 


(2) *Nonresident alien individuals.* The credit provided by section 42 and this section shall not be allowed in the case of any nonresident alien individual. As used in this subparagraph, the term “nonresident alien individual” has the meaning provided by § 1.871-2. See, however, section 6013(g) for election to treat nonresident alien individual as resident of the United States. The credit shall be allowed to an alien individual who is a resident of the United States for part of the taxable year. See § 1.871-2(b) for rules relating to the determination of residence of an alien individual. For purposes of paragraphs (a) (1)(i) and (2)(i) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only that portion of the individual's taxable income which is attributable to the period of his residence in the United States. For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled under section 151 (b) and (e) for the period of his residence in the United States. For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the credit allowed shall be computed by taking into account only the total number of deductions for personal exemptions to which the individual is entitled under section 151 for the period of his residence in the United States. See § 1.871-13 for rules relating to changes of residence status during a taxable year. 


(e) *Limitation*—(1) *For taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977.* For taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and beginning before January 1, 1977, the credit allowed by section 42 and this section shall not exceed the amount of tax imposed by chapter 1 for the taxable year. In the case of an alien individual who is a resident of the United States for a part of the taxable year, the credit allowed by section 42 and this section shall not exceed the amount of tax imposed by chapter 1 for that portion of the taxable year during which the alien individual was a resident of the United States. See § 1.871-13.


(2) *For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979.* For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976, and ending before January 1, 1979, the credit allowed by section 42 and this section shall not exceed the amount of tax imposed by section 1, or the amount of tax imposed in lieu of the tax imposed by section 1, for the taxable year. In the case of an alien individual who is a resident of the United States for a part of the taxable year, the credit allowed by section 42 and this section shall not exceed the amount of tax imposed by section 1, or the amount of tax imposed in lieu of the tax imposed by section 1, for that portion of the taxable year during which the alien individual was a resident of the United States. See § 1.871-13.


(f) *Application with other credits.* In determining the credits allowed under—


(1) Section 33 (relating to foreign tax credit),


(2) Section 37 (relating to credit for the elderly),


(3) Section 38 (relating to investment in certain depreciable property),


(4) Section 40 (relating to expenses of work incentive programs), and


(5) Section 41 (relating to contributions to candidates for public office),


(g) *Income tax tables to reflect credit.* The tables prescribed under section 3 shall reflect the credit allowed by section 42 and this section.


(h) *Effective dates.* The credit allowed by section 42 and this section applies only for taxable years ending after December 31, 1975, and before January 1, 1979.



---

[N] [T.D. 7547, 43 FR 19653, May 8, 1978] 




