# § 972.224   Necessary conditions for HUD approval of conversion.

(a) *Conditions.* In order to convert a public housing development, the PHA must conduct a conversion assessment that demonstrates that the conversion of the development:


(1) Will not be more expensive than continuing to operate the development (or portion of it) as public housing;


(2) Will principally benefit the residents of the public housing development (or portion thereof) to be converted, the PHA, and the community; and


(3) Will not adversely affect the availability of affordable housing in the community.


(b) *Evidence*—(1) *Relative expense.* The relative expense of continuing operation as public housing or conversion to tenant-based assistance may be demonstrated by the cost analysis and market value analysis.


(2) *Benefit to residents, PHA, and the community.* (i) The benefit to residents, the PHA, and the community may be demonstrated in the rental market analysis, the analysis of the impact on the neighborhood, the market value analysis, and the proposed future use of the development. In determining whether a conversion will principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, HUD will consider whether the conversion will conflict with any litigation settlement agreements, voluntary compliance agreements, or other remedial agreements signed by the PHA with HUD.


(ii) In making the determination of whether a conversion would principally benefit residents, the PHA, and the community, the PHA must consider such factors as the availability of landlords providing tenant-based assistance, as well as access to schools, jobs, and transportation.


(iii) To determine the benefit to residents, the PHA must hold at least one public meeting with residents of the affected site (including the duly elected Resident Council, if any, that covers the development in question). At the meeting, the PHA must:


(A) Explain the requirements of section 22 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 and these regulations, especially as they apply to residents of affected developments;


(B) Provide draft copies of the conversion assessment to the residents; and


(C) Provide the residents with a reasonable period of time to submit comments on the draft conversion assessment.


(iv) The conversion assessment submitted to HUD must contain a summary of the resident comments, and the PHA responses to any significant issues raised by the commenters.


(3) *Impact on affordable housing.* The impact on affordable housing may be demonstrated in the rental market analysis and the analysis of the impact of conversion on the neighborhood.




