# § 9.109   Northern Neck George Washington Birthplace.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Northern Neck George Washington Birthplace.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Northern Neck George Washington Birthplace viticultural area are 2 U.S.G.S. 1:250,000 scale maps. They are entitled:


(1) Washington, DC; Maryland; Virginia, 1957 (Revised 1979); and


(2) Richmond, VA; MD., 1973.


(c) *Boundaries.* The Northern Neck George Washington Birthplace viticultural area consists of all of the lands in the Counties of Westmoreland, King George, Northumberland, Lancaster and Richmond, in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The boundaries of the Northern Neck George Washington Birthplace viticultural area, using landmarks and points of reference found on the appropriate U.S.G.S. maps, are as follows:


(1) Beginning on the Washington, DC; Maryland; Virginia U.S.G.S. map at a point on Potomac Creek where the King George County western boundary line at its northernmost point intersects Potomac Creek the boundary proceeds easterly and southeasterly on the Richmond, VA; MD. U.S.G.S. map, along the Virginia shoreline of the Potomac River for approximately 66 miles to Smith Point on the Chesapeake Bay;


(2) Thence southerly along the shoreline of the Chesapeake Bay for approximately 20 miles to Windmill Point at the mouth of the Rappahannock River;


(3) Thence northwesterly along the banks of the Rappahannock River for approximately 72 air miles to Muddy Creek at the point where the western boundary line of King George County at its southernmost point begins;


(4) Thence northward along the King George County/Stafford County line approximately 7 miles to the point of the beginning.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-250, 52 FR 13082, Apr. 21, 1987, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87936, Nov. 6, 2024]




