# § 63.8470   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard in Tables 1, 2, and 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Table 6 to this subpart.


(b) For each affected kiln that is subject to the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with an APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart, or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and each operating limit established as required in § 63.8445(h)(2) according to the methods specified in your approved alternative monitoring procedures request, as described in §§ 63.8445(h)(1) and 63.8(f).


(c) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.8485(c)(9).


(d) [Reserved]


(e)(1) *VE testing.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for visible emissions (VE) from tunnel kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DLA, dry lime injection fabric filter (DIFF), dry lime scrubber/fabric filter (DLS/FF), or other dry control device by monitoring VE at each kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Perform daily VE observations of each kiln stack according to the procedures of Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must conduct the Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.


(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must promptly conduct an opacity test, according to the procedures of Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4. If opacity greater than 10 percent is observed, you must initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan.


(iii) You may decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for a kiln stack if one of the conditions in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met.


(A) No VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily Method 22 tests for any kiln stack; or


(B) No opacity greater than 10 percent is observed during any of the Method 9 tests for any kiln stack.


(iv) If VE are observed during any weekly test and opacity greater than 10 percent is observed in the subsequent Method 9 test, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan, resume testing of that kiln stack following Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, on a daily basis, as described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, and maintain that schedule until one of the conditions in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.


(v) If greater than 10 percent opacity is observed during any test conducted using Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in § 63.8485.


(2) *Alternative to VE testing.* In lieu of meeting the requirements under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, you may conduct a PM test at least once every year following the initial performance test, according to the procedures of Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, and the provisions of § 63.8445(e) and (f)(1).




