# § 161.7   ID card life-cycle procedures.

(a) *Sponsorship and eligibility.* In accordance with this part, sponsorship shall incorporate the processes for confirming eligibility for an ID card. The sponsor is the person affiliated with the DoD or other Federal agency who takes responsibility for verifying and authorizing the applicant's need for an ID card. Applicants for a CAC shall be sponsored by a DoD Government official or employee.


(1) The population categories and specific ID cards for which applicants are eligible are listed in Appendix 1 of this section. The majority of these populations are eligible to be sponsored for an ID card based on either their employment status with the DoD or their authorization to receive DoD benefits and entitlements. Examples of these population categories include, but are not limited to: Uniformed services personnel; DoD civilian employees; military retirees; certain DoD beneficiaries; and the eligible dependents for these categories.


(2) Specific populations, listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of Appendix 1 of this section who are eligible to submit for the “U.S. DoD/Uniformed Service ID Card” may only be sponsored if they meet additional criteria. Examples of these population categories include DoD contractors, non-DoD Federal civilians, State employees, and other non-DoD personnel that have an affiliation with the DoD other than through employment or contract. Eligibility for these approved population categories is based on the DoD Government sponsor's determination of the type and frequency of access required to DoD facilities or networks. For the populations described in this paragraph, the applicant's sponsor must confirm that the applicant meets one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section:


(i) Both physical access to a DoD facility and access, via logon, to DoD networks on-site or remotely. Access to the DoD network must require the use of a computer with Government-controlled configuration or use of a DoD-approved remote access procedure in accordance with the Defense Information Systems Agency Security Technical Implementation Guide, “Secure Remote Computing” (available at *http://iase.disa.mil/stigs/a-z.html* under “Remote. . .”).


(ii) Remote access, via logon, to a DoD network using DoD-approved remote access procedures.


(iii) Physical access to multiple DoD facilities or multiple non-DoD federally controlled facilities on behalf of the DoD (applicable to DoD contractors only) on a recurring basis for a period of 6 months or more.


(A) The frequency of “recurring basis” for access shall be determined by the DoD Component concerned in coordination with installation security policies.


(B) CAC eligibility for applicants requiring physical access to multiple DoD facilities on a recurring basis for less than 6 months are risk-based decisions that shall be made by the DoD Component concerned in coordination with installation security policies. These applicants may instead be eligible for local or regional base passes in accordance with Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)) and local installation security policies and procedures.


(b) *Registration and enrollment.* In accordance with this part, sponsorship and enrollment information about the ID card applicant shall be registered in the DEERS prior to card issuance.


(1) For uniformed services personnel and DoD civilians, all submissions to DEERS must be made electronically via an authorized data source feed (e.g., Civilian Personnel Management Service). Data source feeds for additional population categories shall be approved and incorporated by the Office of the USD(P&R) (OUSD(P&R)) as they become available.


(2) The population categories that are not registered via an authorized data source feed will be registered in DEERS via the RAPIDS using the DD Form 1172-2 or via the TASS (formerly known as CVS, as described in § 161.8 of this subpart.


(c) *Background Investigation.* In accordance with this subpart and DoDI 5200.46, “DoD Investigative and Adjudicative Guidance for Issuing the Common Access Card (CAC)” (available at: *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/ directives/corres/pdf/ 520046p.pdf*), a background investigation is required for those individuals eligible for a CAC. A background investigation is not currently required for those eligible for other forms of DoD ID cards. The use of the CAC, as the DoD Federal personal identity verification (PIV) card, is governed and supported by additional policies when compared to non-CAC ID cards. 

Sponsored CAC applicants shall not be issued a CAC without the required background investigation stipulated in DoDI 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-3.


(1) A background investigation shall be initiated by the sponsoring organization before a CAC can be issued. The mechanisms required to verify completion of background investigation activities for DoD, military, and civilian CAC populations are managed within the DoD human resources and personnel security communities and are linked to the CAC issuance process. An automated means is not currently in place to confirm the vetting for populations other than DoD military and civilian personnel such as CAC-eligible contractors and non-DoD Federal civilian affiliates. When data is not available within the CAC issuance infrastructure on the background investigation status for an applicant, the sponsor shall be responsible for confirming that the required background investigation procedures comply with the DoD Instruction 5200.46 and FIPS Publication 201-3 before a CAC is authorized for issuance.


(2) Issuance of a CAC requires, at a minimum, the completion of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint check with favorable results and successful submission of a NACI (or investigation approved in Federal Investigative Standards) to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Completed background investigations for CAC issuance shall be adjudicated in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.46 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12” (available at *http://www.opm.gov/investigate/resources/final_credentialing_standards.pdf*).


(3) Except for uniformed services members, special considerations for conducting background investigations of non-U.S. nationals are addressed in DoD Instruction 5200.46. Non-U.S. person CAC applicants that do not meet the criteria to complete a NACI (e.g., U.S. residency requirements), must meet one of the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section prior to CAC issuance. CACs issued to these non-U.S. persons shall display a blue stripe as described in appendix 2 of this section. Procedures for the acceptance of this CAC shall be in accordance with DoD Instruction 5200.46 and Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” The specific background investigation conducted on the non-U.S. person may vary based on governing international agreements. Non-U.S. persons must:


(i) Possess (as foreign military, employee, or contract support personnel) a visit status and security assurance that has been confirmed, documented, and processed in accordance with international agreements pursuant to DoD Directive 5230.20, “Visits and Assignments of Foreign Nationals” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/ 523020p.pdf*).


(ii) Meet (as direct or indirect DoD hire personnel overseas) the investigative requirements for DoD employment as recognized through international agreements pursuant to Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, “DoD Civilian Personnel Management System: Employment of Foreign Nationals” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/html/CPM_table2.html*). In addition to these investigative requirements, a fingerprint check against the FBI criminal history database, an FBI investigations files (name check search), and a name check against the Terrorist Screening Database shall be required prior to CAC issuance in accordance with Office of Personnel Management Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.”


(d) *Identity and eligibility verification.* In accordance with this part, identity and eligibility verification shall be completed at a RAPIDS workstation. VOs shall inspect identity and eligibility documentation and RAPIDS shall authenticate individuals to ensure that ID cards are provided only to those sponsored and who have a current affiliation with the DoD. RAPIDS shall also capture uniquely identifying characteristics that bind an individual to the information maintained in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These characteristics may include, but are not limited to, digital photographs and fingerprints.


(1) *Identity documents.* Applicants for initial ID card issuance shall submit two identity documents in original form as proof of identity. A VO at a RAPIDS workstation shall inspect and verify the documents presented by the applicant before ID card issuance. The identity documents must come from the list of acceptable primary and secondary documents included in the FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, or, for non-U.S. persons, other sources as outlined within paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Copies of the identity documentation may be accepted so long as they are certified documents. In accordance with FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements, the identity documents shall be neither expired nor cancelled. The primary identity document shall be a State or Federal Government-issued picture ID. The identity documents shall be inspected for authenticity and scanned and stored in the DEERS in accordance with the DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide” upon issuance of an ID card. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived for initial ID card issuance, consistent with applicable statutory requirements. Identity documentation requirements for renewal or re-issuance are provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. When it has been determined that a CAC applicant has purposely misrepresented or not provided the applicant's true identity, the case shall be referred by the relevant RAPIDS Service Project office (SPO) to the sponsoring DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization. The DoD or other Uniformed Service Component organization concerned shall initiate an investigation or provide appeals procedures as appropriate. Exceptions to the identity documentation requirements for initial ID card issuance are provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:


(i) *Children.* Children under the age of 18 applying for a dependent ID card are only required to provide documentation for the initial verification of eligibility or proof of relationship to the sponsor described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Documentation for non-U.S. persons.* At foreign locations, eligible non-U.S. persons may not possess identity documentation from the FIPS Publication 201-3 PIV Identity Proofing and Registration Requirements required for ID card issuance. These individuals shall still provide personal ID as required by the intent of this paragraph (d)(1). Non-U.S. persons within the United States and U.S. territories and possessions shall present a valid (unexpired) foreign passport as the primary form of identity source documentation. DoD organizations based outside the United States and U.S. territories and possessions should work with the local consular affairs office to determine guidelines for the appropriate identity documentation for eligible non-U.S. persons in accordance with agreements with host nations. It is recommended that a foreign passport be used as the primary form of identity source documentation for these individuals. The requirement for the primary identity document to have a photo cannot be waived. A foreign government issued ID with photograph may be used as a secondary document for ID card issuance. Additional documentation used to verify identity must be original or certified true copies. All documentation not in English must have a certified English translation.


(2) *Eligibility documents.* ID card applicants may be required to provide documentation as initial verification of eligibility for benefits or proof of relationship to the sponsor. The eligibility documents shall be inspected for authenticity by the VO and scanned and stored in DEERS in accordance with the procedures in DMDC, “Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) User Guide.” Specifications and the types of documents and how they are utilized to verify eligibility for a member or dependent based on their status (e.g., Retired, Reservist, spouse, former spouse, child) shall be established by the uniformed services subject to the guidelines in this subpart. All documentation used to verify eligibility must be original or certified true copies. All documentation not in English must have a certified English translation. Eligibility documentation is not required when DEERS can verify eligibility via an authoritative source or process.


(3) *DEERS verification.* The VO shall utilize DEERS to verify affiliation and eligibility for benefits as described in subpart C of this part.


(4) *Biometrics.* In accordance with DoD Instruction 1000.25, ID card applicants shall provide two fingerprint biometric scans and a facial image, to assist with authenticating the applicant's identity and to bind the information maintained on that individual in DEERS and to the ID card issued by RAPIDS. These requirements shall be integrated into the ID card issuance processes in the following manner:


(i) A digitized, full-face passport-type photograph will be captured for the facial image and stored in DEERS and shall have a plain white or off-white background. No flags, posters, or other images shall appear in the photo. All ID cards issued will display a photograph.


(ii) Two fingerprints are captured for storage within DEERS for applicable ID card applicants. The right and left index fingers shall normally be designated as the primary and secondary finger, respectively. However, if those fingers cannot be imaged, the primary and secondary designations shall be taken in the following order of priority: Right thumb, left thumb, right middle finger, left middle finger, right ring finger, left ring finger, right little finger, left little finger.


(iii) If two fingerprints cannot be captured, the facial image will be the alternative for authenticating ID card applicants and ID card holders during the issuance process. Additionally, when verification or capture of biometrics is not possible, authorization will be provided by the RAPIDS SSM's digital signature. This transaction shall be subject to audit by DMDC and the uniformed services.


(e) *Issuance.* In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be issued at the RAPIDS workstation after all sponsorship, enrollment and registration, background investigation (CAC only), and identity and eligibility verification requirements have been satisfied. Initial issuance of an ID card to an applicant will be contingent on satisfying the criteria in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(1) *Cross-servicing.* The uniformed services agree to cross-service the issuance of ID cards when affiliation and eligibility can be verified in DEERS. When eligibility cannot be verified through DEERS, presentation of documentation shall be required. The uniformed services shall restrict cross-servicing for verification of the DD Form 1172-2 and eligibility documentation to the parent uniformed service for the categories in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section:


(i) Initial application for permanently incapacitated individuals over age 21 and temporarily incapacitated children over age 21.


(ii) All dependent parents and parents-in-law.


(iii) Illegitimate child of a male sponsor, whose paternity has not been judicially determined.


(iv) Illegitimate child of spouse or sponsor.


(v) Unremarried and unmarried former spouses applying for initial issuance of an ID card.


(vi) Retiree from other services, and former members not currently enrolled in DEERS.


(vii) Surviving dependents of Reserve Retirees on the sponsor's 60th birthday.


(viii) Abused dependents.


(ix) Wards.


(2) *Expiration dates*—(i) *CACs.* Except as noted in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, CACs shall be issued for a period not to exceed 3 years from the date of issuance or contract expiration date, whichever is shorter. Unfunded contract options shall be considered in the determination of the length of contract. For example, a contractor hired under DoD contract with a base year plus 2 option years shall be issued a CAC with a 3-year expiration. The expiration date of the PKI certificates on the CAC shall match the expiration date on the card.


(A) CACs issued to DoD civilian employees, contractors, and other eligible personnel assigned overseas or deploying in support of contingency operations shall have an expiration date coinciding with their deployment period end date.


(B) Service Academy students shall be issued 4-year cards with 3-year certificates.


(ii) *Non-CAC ID cards.* (A) DD Form 1173, “United States Uniformed Services ID and Privilege Card” issued to dependents of DoD civilian employees, contractors, and other eligible personnel assigned overseas or deploying in support of contingency operations shall have an expiration date coinciding with their deployment period end date.


(B) An indefinite DD Form 1173 will be issued to the dependents of retired Service members who are either 65 years of age or permanently incapacitated in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1060b.


(C) All other non-CAC ID cards shall be given expiration dates in accordance with the guidance listed on *www.cac.mil*.


(3) *Renewal and reissuance.* Consistent with applicable law, the applicant for ID renewal or reissuance shall be required to surrender the current DoD ID card that is up for renewal or reissuance except as indicated for lost and stolen ID cards in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section. An expired DoD ID card is an acceptable secondary form of ID for non-CAC ID card renewal or reissuance if identity document verification is required. To authenticate renewal or reissuance applicants, the VO shall visually compare the applicant against the facial image stored in DEERS. For applicants who have fingerprint biometrics stored in DEERS, live fingerprint biometrics samples shall be checked against the applicant's DEERS record. If the biometric check confirms the identity of the renewal or reissuance applicant then no additional documentation is required to verify identity other than the ID card that is being renewed or reissued (documentation may still be required to verify or re-verify eligibility as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section). As a general practice for renewal or re-issuance, two fresh fingerprint biometric captures may be stored for applicable personnel through the initial procedures in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section to support DMDC's biometric update schedule. If biometric information cannot be verified, the requirements for initial issuance shall apply or a temporary card may be issued in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this subpart.


(i) An ID card holder may apply for a renewal starting 90 days prior to the expiration of a valid ID. The SPO can provide exceptions to this requirement.


(ii) An ID card shall be reissued when printed information requires changes (e.g., pay grade, rank, change in eligibility), when any of the media (including printed data, magnetic stripe, bar codes, or integrated circuit chip) becomes illegible or inoperable, or when a CAC is known or suspected to be compromised.


(iii) An ID card shall be reissued when it is reported lost or stolen. The individual reporting a lost or stolen ID card shall be required to provide a valid (unexpired) State or Federal Government-issued picture ID as noted in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, consistent with applicable law, when available. If the individual is unable to present the required identity documentation, a biometric verification shall be used as proof of identity as described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(A) of this section. The VO shall verify the cardholder's identity against the biometric information stored in DEERS and confirm the expiration date of the missing ID card. The individual shall also be required to present documentation from the local security office or ID card sponsor confirming that the ID card has been reported lost or stolen. This documentation must be scanned and stored in DEERS. For dependents, the DD Form 1172-2 serves as the supporting documentation for a lost or stolen card. For individuals sponsored through TASS, the replacement ID card shall have the same expiration date as the lost or stolen card.


(A) If no identity documentation is available but biometric information (facial image or fingerprint when applicable) in the DEERS database can be verified by the VO, an ID card can be reissued to the individual upon the additional approval of a SSM. This transaction shall be digitally signed and audited.


(B) If biometric information cannot be verified, the requirements for initial issuance shall apply or a temporary card may be issued in accordance with paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(4) *Temporary cards*—(i) *Temporary issuance of a CAC.* During contingency operations, in the event there is no communication with the DEERS database or the certificate authority, a temporary CAC may be issued with an abbreviated expiration date for a maximum of 10 days. The temporary card will not have PKI certificates and will be replaced as soon as the member can reach an online RAPIDS station or communications have been restored. Additionally, the temporary CAC does not communicate or imply eligibility to any DoD benefit. This capability will be enabled only at affected RAPIDS sites and must have approval granted by DMDC.


(ii) *Temporary issuance of a Uniformed Services Identification card.* There are multiple scenarios under which a temporary Uniformed Services Identification card may be issued. The uniformed services shall develop standard processes and procedures for scenarios requiring issuance of a temporary DD Forms 2765 “Department of Defense/Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card” or DD 1173, including but not limited to those situations where the applicant needs to obtain the necessary legal documentation or the sponsor is unavailable to provide an authorizing signature.


(5) *Multiple cards.* Individuals shall be issued a separate ID card for each population category for which they qualify as described in Appendix 1 of this section. In instances where an individual has been issued more than one ID card (e.g., an individual that is eligible for an ID card as both a Reservist and as a DoD contractor employee), only the ID card that most accurately depicts the capacity in which the individual is affiliated with the DoD should be utilized at any given time.


(f) *Use and maintenance.* In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be used as proof of identity and DoD affiliation to facilitate access to DoD facilities and systems. Additionally, ID cards shall represent authorization for entitled benefits and privileges in accordance with DoD policies. The CAC, as the DoD Federal PIV card, is governed and supported by additional policies and infrastructure when compared to non-CAC ID cards. This section provides additional guidance on CAC use and maintenance:


(1) *Access.* The granting of access privileges is determined by the facility or system owner as prescribed by the DoD.


(2) *Accountability.* CAC holders will maintain accountability of their CAC at all times while affiliated with the DoD.


(3) *PKI.* Using the RAPIDS platform, DoD PKI identity and PIV authentication certificates will be issued on the CAC at the time of card issuance in compliance with OPM Memorandum, “Final Credentialing Standards for Issuing Personal Identity Verification Cards under HSPD-12.” Email signature, email encryption, or PIV authentication certificates may also be available on the CAC either upon issuance or at a later time. If the person receiving a CAC does not have an organization email address assigned to them, they may return to a RAPIDS terminal or use milConnect to receive their email certificate when the email address has been assigned. To help prevent inadvertent disclosure of controlled information, email addresses assigned by an organization shall comply with DoD Instruction 8500.2, “Information Awareness (IA) Implementation” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/850002p.pdf*).


(4) *milConnect.* DoD has a self-service Web site available that allows an authenticated CAC holder to add applets to the CAC, change the email address, add/update Email Signature and Email Encryption Certificates, and activate the Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Authentication certificate. This capability can be utilized from any properly configured UNCLASSIFED networked workstation. The milConnect Web site is *https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/milconnect.*

(5) *CAC Personal ID Number (PIN) Reset.* DoD has manned workstations capable of resetting the PINs of a CAC holder with a locked card or forgotten PIN. These workstations are intended to provide alternative locations for CAC holders to service their cards other than RAPIDS issuance locations. To authenticate cardholders, live biometric samples shall be checked against the biometrics stored in DEERS prior to resetting CACs. This process requires the presence of a CPR trusted agent (CTA) or TASM or RAPIDS VO or SSM.


(g) *Retrieval and revocation.* In accordance with this part, ID cards shall be retrieved by the sponsor or sponsoring organization when the ID card has expired, when it is damaged or compromised, or when the card holder is no longer affiliated with the DoD or no longer meets the eligibility requirements for the card. The active status of the card shall be terminated within the DEERS and RAPIDS infrastructure. The CAC, as the DoD Federal PIV card, is governed and supported by additional policies and infrastructure when compared to non-CAC ID cards. This section provides additional guidance on CAC retrieval and revocation:


(1) CACs shall be retrieved as part of the normal organizational or command-level check-out processes. The active status of the CAC shall also be terminated in special circumstances (e.g., absent without leave, unauthorized absence, missing in action) in accordance with organization or command-level security policies.


(2) The DoD sponsor or sponsoring organization is ultimately responsible for retrieving CACs from their personnel who are no longer supporting their organization or activity with the exception of transferring DoD civilian employees. Civilian employees transferring from one DoD Component to another as civilian employees (*e.g.,* Army civilian to Air Force civilian) will be permitted to retain their CAC during their transition for up to 30 days in accordance with the DoD CIO and USD(P&R) joint memorandum, “Common Access Card Retention for Department of Defense Civilian Employees when Transferring Between Department of Defense Components.” CAC retrieval will be documented and treated as personally identifiable information, in accordance with DoD Regulation 5200.1-R, and 32 CFR part 310 and receipted to a RAPIDS site for disposition in a timely manner.


(3) Upon loss, destruction, or revocation of the CAC, the certificates thereon are revoked and placed on the certificate revocation list in accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration Certificate Policy, “X.509 Certificate Policy for the United States Department of Defense” (available at *http://jitc.fhu.disa.mil/pki/documents/dod_x509_certificate_policy_v9_0_9_february_2005.pdf*). All other situations that pertain to the disposition of the certificates are handled in accordance with Assistant Secretary of Defense for Networks and Information Integration Certificate Policy, “X.509 Certificate Policy for the United States Department of Defense” as implemented.





---

[N] [79 FR 709, Jan. 6, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 74878, Oct. 27, 2016; 89 FR 11179-11180, Feb. 14, 2024]




