# ยง 2700.67   Summary decision of the Judge.

(a) *Filing of motion for summary decision.* At any time after commencement of a proceeding and no later than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing on the merits, a party may move the Judge to render summary decision disposing of all or part of the proceeding. Filing of a summary decision motion and an opposition thereto shall be effective upon receipt.


(b) *Grounds.* A motion for summary decision shall be granted only if the entire record, including the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, admissions, and affidavits, shows: 


(1) That there is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and 


(2) That the moving party is entitled to summary decision as a matter of law. 


(c) *Form of motion.* A motion shall be accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities specifying the grounds upon which the party seeks summary decision and a statement of material facts specifying each material fact as to which the party contends there is no genuine issue. Each material fact set forth in the statement shall be supported by a reference to accompanying affidavits or other verified documents.


(d) *Form of opposition.* An opposition to a motion for summary decision shall include a memorandum of points and authorities specifying why the moving party is not entitled to summary decision and may be supported by affidavits or other verified documents. The opposition shall also include a separate concise statement of each genuine issue of material fact necessary to be litigated, supported by a reference to any accompanying affidavits or other verified documents. Material facts identified as not in issue by the moving party shall be deemed admitted for purposes of the motion unless controverted by the statement in opposition. If a party does not respond in opposition, summary decision, if appropriate, shall be entered in favor of the moving party.


(e) *Affidavits.* Supporting and opposing affidavits shall be made on personal knowledge and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated. Sworn or certified copies of all papers or parts of papers referred to in an affidavit shall be attached to the affidavit or be incorporated by reference if not otherwise a matter of record. The judge shall permit affidavits to be supplemented or opposed by depositions, answers to interrogatories, admissions, or further affidavits.


(f) *Case not fully adjudicated on motion.* If a motion for summary decision is denied in whole or in part, the Judge shall ascertain what material facts are controverted and shall issue an order directing further proceedings as appropriate.



---

[N] [58 FR 12164, Mar. 3, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 44208, Aug. 4, 2006]




