# § 165.785   Security Zone; Presidential Security Zone, Palm Beach, FL.

(a) *Regulated areas.* The following areas are security zones:


(1) *Center zone.* All waters of Lake Worth Lagoon from surface to bottom within the following points: Beginning at Point 1 in position 26°41′21″ N, 80°02′39″ W; thence east to Point 2 in position 26°41′21″ N, 80°02′13″ W; thence south following the shoreline to Point 3 in position 26°39′58″ N, 80°02′20″ W; thence west to Point 4 in position 26°39′58″ N, 80°02′38″ W, thence back to origin at Point 1.


(2) *West zone.* All waters of Lake Worth Lagoon from surface to bottom within the following points: Beginning at Point 1 in position 26°41′21″ N, 80°02′39″ W; thence west to Point 2 in position 26°41′21″ N, 80°03′00″ W; thence south following the shoreline to Point 3 in position 26°39′58″ N, 80°02′55″ W; thence east to Point 4 in position 26°39′58″ N, 80°02′38″ W, thence back to origin at Point 1.


(3) *East zone.* All waters of the Atlantic Ocean from surface to bottom within the following points: Beginning at Point 1 in position 26°41′21″ N, 80°02′01″ W; thence south following the shoreline to Point 2 in position 26°39′57″ N, 80°2′09”W; thence east to Point 3 in position 26°39′57″ N, 80°01′36″ W; thence north to Point 4 in position 26°41′22″ N, 80°01′29″ W, thence back to origin at Point 1.


(b) *Definition.* The term “designated representative” means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, as well as Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the COTP Miami with enforcing the security zone.


(c) *Regulations*—(1) *Center zone.* All persons and vessels are prohibited from entering, transiting, anchoring in, or remaining within the security zone unless authorized by the COTP Miami or a designated representative.


(2) *West zone.* All persons and vessels are required to transit the security zone escorted by an on-scene designated representative at a steady speed and may not slow down or stop except in the case of unforeseen mechanical failure or other emergency. Any persons or vessels forced to slow or stop in the zone shall immediately notify the COTP Miami via VHF channel 16.


(3) *East zone.* All persons and vessels are required to transit the security zone at a steady speed and may not slow down or stop except in the case of unforeseen mechanical failure or other emergency. Any persons or vessels forced to slow or stop in the zone shall immediately notify the COTP Miami via VHF channel 16.


(4) *Contacting Captain of the Port.* Persons who must notify or request authorization from the COTP Miami may do so by telephone at (305)535-4472 or may contact a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16. If authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain within the security zone is granted by the COTP Miami or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the COTP Miami or the designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced when the President of the United States, members of the First Family, or other persons under the protection of the Secret Service are present or expected to be present at the Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida. The Coast Guard will rely on the methods described in § 165.7 to notify the public prior to activation of any of the security zones described in paragraph (a) of this section. Coast Guard patrol assets will also be on-scene with flashing energized blue lights when the center, west, or east security zone is in effect.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0016, 83 FR 17298, Apr. 19, 2018]








