# § 42.05-50   New vessel.

(a) As used in this part 42, for a vessel engaged on international voyages or on domestic voyages by sea, the term *new vessel* means a vessel, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construction, on or after July 21, 1968. (See § 42.05-30 for definition of an existing vessel.) 


(1) This definition applies to all vessels of countries signatory to or acceding to the 1966 Convention prior to April 21, 1968, and to vessels of countries not adhering to an applicable Convention as indicated in Article 16(4) of the 1966 Convention. 


(2) For countries which accede to the 1966 Convention after April 21, 1968, a *new vessel* (foreign) shall be one whose keel is constructively laid 3 months or more after such date. 


(b)-(c) [Reserved]


(d) As used in part 44 of this subchapter, for a vessel marked with load lines for special service on a coastwise or interisland voyage, the term *new vessel* means one whose keel is laid on or after September 28, 1937. (See § 44.01-20 of this subchapter.) 


(e) As used in part 45 of this subchapter, for a vessel engaged solely on Great Lakes voyages, the term *new vessel* means one whose keel is laid on or after August 27, 1936. (See § 45.01-10 of this subchapter.) 


(f) As used in part 46 of this subchapter, for a passenger vessel marked with subdivision load lines, the term *new vessel* means a vessel whose keel is laid or is converted to such service on or after May 26, 1965. (See § 46.05-25 of this subchapter.) 



---

[N] [CGFR 68-60, 33 FR 10051, July 12, 1968, as amended by CGD 80-120, 47 FR 5722, Feb. 8, 1982]




