# § 191.13   Packaging materials.

(a) *Imported packaging material.* Drawback of duties is provided in § 313(q)(1) of the Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1313(q)(1)), on imported packaging material when used to package or repackage merchandise or articles exported or destroyed pursuant to § 313(a), (b), (c), or (j) of the Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1313(a), (b), (c), or (j)). Drawback is payable on the packaging material pursuant to the particular drawback provision to which the packaged goods themselves are subject. The drawback will be based on the duty, tax or fee paid on the importation of the packaging material. The packaging material must be separately identified on the claim, and all other information and documents required for the particular drawback provision under which the claim is made shall be provided for the packaging material.


(b) *Packaging material manufactured in United States from imported materials.* Drawback of duties is provided in § 313(q)(2) of the Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1313(q)(2)), on packaging material that is manufactured or produced in the United States from imported materials and used to package or repackage articles that are exported or destroyed under § 313(a) or (b) of the Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1313(a) or (b)). Drawback is payable on the packaging material under the particular manufacturing drawback provision to which the packaged articles themselves are subject, either 19 U.S.C. 1313(a) or (b), as applicable. The drawback will be based on the duty, tax, or fee that is paid on the imported merchandise used to manufacture or produce the packaging material. The packaging material and the imported merchandise used in its manufacture or production must be separately identified on the claim, and all other information and documents required for the particular drawback provision under which the claim is made must be provided for the packaging material as well as the imported merchandise used in its manufacture or production, for purposes of determining the applicable drawback payable.



---

[N] [T.D. 98-16, 63 FR 11006, Mar. 5, 1998, as amended by T.D. 02-16, 67 FR 16637, Apr. 8, 2002]




