# ยง 602.3   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions provided in 2 CFR part 200 and 2 CFR part 910, the following definitions are provided for purposes of this part: 


*Conference and communication activities* means scientific or technical conferences, symposia, workshops, seminars, public meetings, publications, video or slide shows, and other presentations for the purpose of communicating or exchanging information or views pertinent to DOE. 


*DOE* means the United States Department of Energy. 


*Education/Training* means support for education or related activities for an individual or organization that will enhance educational levels and skills, in particular, scientific or technical areas of interest to DOE. 


*Epidemiology and Other Health Studies* means research pertaining to potential health effects resulting from DOE or predecessor agency operations or from any aspect of energy production, transmission, or use (including electromagnetic fields) in the United States and abroad. Related systems or activities to enhance these areas, as well as other program areas that may be described by notice published in the _Federal Register,_ are also included. 


*Principal investigator* means the scientist or other individual designated by the recipient to direct the project. 


*Research* means basic and applied research and that part of development not related to the development of specific systems or products. The primary aim of research is scientific study and experimentation directed toward advancing the state of the art or increasing knowledge or understanding rather than focusing on a specific system or product. 



---

[N] [60 FR 5841, Jan. 31, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 76046, Dec. 19, 2014]




