# § 658.704   Remedial actions.

(a) If a SWA fails to correct violations as determined pursuant to § 658.702, the Regional Administrator must apply one or more of the following remedial actions to the SWA:


(1) Imposition of special reporting requirements for a specified time;


(2) Restrictions of obligational authority within one or more expense classifications;


(3) Implementation of specific operating systems or procedures for a specified time;


(4) Requirement of special training for ES staff;


(5) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, the elevation of specific decision-making functions from the State Administrator to the Regional Administrator;


(6) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, the imposition of Federal staff in key SWA positions;


(7) With the approval of the Assistant Secretary and after affording the State Administrator the opportunity to request a conference with the Assistant Secretary, funding of the SWA on a short-term basis or partial withholding of funds for a specific function or for a specific geographical area;


(8) Holding of public hearings in the State on the SWA's deficiencies;


(9) Disallowance of funds pursuant to § 658.702(g); or


(10) If the matter involves a serious or continual violation, the initiation of decertification procedures against the State Workforce Agency, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) The Regional Administrator must send, by registered mail, a Notice of Remedial Action to the SWA. The Notice of Remedial Action must set forth the reasons for the remedial action. When such a notice is the result of violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs (§§ 653.100 *through 653.113* of this chapter) or the Complaint System (§§ 658.400 through 658.426), a copy of said notice must be sent to the Administrator, who must publish the notice promptly in the _Federal Register_.


(c) If the remedial action is other than decertification, the notice must state the remedial action must take effect immediately. The notice also must state the SWA may request a hearing pursuant to § 658.707 by filing a request in writing with the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 658.707 within 20 business days of the SWA's receipt of the notice. The offer of hearing, or the acceptance thereof, however, does not stay or otherwise delay the implementation of remedial action.


(d) Within 60 business days after the initial application of remedial action, the Regional Administrator must conduct a review of the SWA's compliance with ES regulations unless the Regional Administrator determines more time is necessary. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the circumstances which necessitate more time, and specify that time period. If necessary, Department staff must conduct a follow-up visit as part of this review. If the SWA is in compliance with the ES regulations, the Regional Administrator must fully document these facts and must terminate the remedial actions. The Regional Administrator must notify the SWA of their findings. When the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, a copy of said notice must be sent to the Administrator, who must promptly publish the notice in the _Federal Register._ The Regional Administrator must conduct, within a reasonable time after terminating the remedial actions, a review of the SWA's compliance to determine whether any remedial actions must be reapplied.


(e) If, upon conducting the on-site review referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, the Regional Administrator finds the SWA remains in noncompliance, the Regional Administrator must continue the remedial action and/or impose different additional remedial actions. The Regional Administrator must fully document all such decisions and, when the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, must send copies to the Administrator, who must promptly publish the notice in the _Federal Register_.


(f)(1) If the SWA has not brought itself into compliance with ES regulations within 120 business days of the initial application of remedial action, the Regional Administrator must initiate decertification unless the Regional Administrator determines the circumstances necessitate continuing remedial action for more time. In such cases, the Regional Administrator must notify the Administrator in writing of the circumstances which necessitate the extended time, and specify the time period.


(2) The Regional Administrator must notify the SWA by registered mail or by other legally viable means of the decertification proceedings, and must state the reasons therefor. Whenever such a notice is sent to a SWA, the Regional Administrator must prepare five copies (hard copies or electronic copies) containing, in chronological order, all the documents pertinent to the case along with a request for decertification stating the grounds therefor. One copy must be retained. Two must be sent to the ETA National Office, one must be sent to the Solicitor of Labor, Attention: Associate Solicitor for Employment and Training, and, if the case involves violations of regulations governing services to MSFWs or the Complaint System, copies must be sent to the RMA and the NMA.

All copies also must be sent electronically to each respective party. The notice sent by the Regional Administrator must be published promptly in the _Federal Register_.



---

[N] [81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 630, Jan. 6, 2020; 88 FR 82736, Nov. 24, 2023]




