# § 766.355   Acceleration of loans.

(a) *General.* (1) The Agency accelerates loans in accordance with this section, unless:


(i) State law imposes separate restrictions on accelerations;


(ii) The borrower is American Indian, whose real estate is located on an Indian reservation.


(2) The Agency accelerates all of the borrower's loans at the same time, regardless of whether each individual loan is delinquent or not.


(3) All borrowers must receive prior notification in accordance with subpart C of this part, except for borrowers who fail to graduate in accordance with § 766.101(a)(8).


(b) *Time limitations.* The borrower has 30 days from the date of the Agency acceleration notice to pay the Agency in full.


(c) *Borrower options.* The borrower may:


(1) Pay the account in full;


(2) Transfer the security to a third party in accordance with part 765, subpart I of this chapter;


(3) Sell the security property in accordance with § 766.352; or


(4) Voluntarily convey the security to the Agency in accordance with §§ 766.353 and 766.354, as appropriate.


(d) *Partial payments.* The Agency may accept a payment that does not cover the unpaid balance of the accelerated loan if the borrower is in the process of selling security, unless acceptance of the payment would reverse the acceleration.


(e) *Failure to satisfy the debt.* The Agency will liquidate the borrower's account in accordance with § 766.357 if the borrower does not pay the account in full within the time period specified in the acceleration notice.



---

[N] [72 FR 63316, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 87 FR 13124, Mar. 9, 2022]






