# § 114.05   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subchapter:


*Approved* means approved by the Commandant unless otherwise stated.


*Bridge* means a structure erected across navigable waters of the United States, and includes causeways, approaches, fenders, and other appurtenances thereto.


*Coast Guard District Commander or District Commander* means an officer of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant to command all Coast Guard activities within his or her district. (See part 3 of this chapter for descriptions of Coast Guard Districts.)


*Commandant* means Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20593.


*Deputy Commandant for Operations* means the officer of the Coast Guard designated by the Commandant as the staff officer in charge of “Operations” (DCO), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters.


*District Office or Coast Guard District Office* means the Office of the Commander of a Coast Guard District.


*Headquarters or Coast Guard Headquarters* means the Office of the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20593-7000.


*Permit* means the license permitting construction of bridges and approaches thereto in or over navigable waters of the United States, issued under the rules and regulations in this subchapter.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Homeland Security or any person to whom he or she has delegated his or her authority in the matter concerned.


*United States Coast Guard or Coast Guard* means the organization or agency established by the Act of January 28, 1915, as amended (14 U.S.C. 101).



---

[N] [USCG-2012-0306, 77 FR 37313, June 21, 2012, as amended by USCG-2020-0304, 85 FR 58278, Sept. 18, 2020]




