# § 1042.610   Certifying auxiliary marine engines to land-based standards.

This section applies to auxiliary marine engines that are identical to certified land-based engines. *See* § 1042.605 for provisions that apply to propulsion marine engines or auxiliary marine engines that are modified for marine applications. This section does not apply for Category 3 engines.


(a) *General provisions.* If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new marine engines into U.S. commerce if they are already certified to the requirements that apply to compression-ignition engines under 40 CFR part 1039 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1039 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part.


(b) *Vessel-manufacturer provisions.* If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may install an engine certified for land-based applications in a marine vessel as long as you meet all the qualifying criteria and requirements specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. If you modify the non-marine engine, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new marine engine. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.


(c) *Liability.* Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR part 1039. This paragraph (c) applies to engine manufacturers, vessel manufacturers that use such an engine, and all other persons as if the engine were used in its originally intended application. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and vessels; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1039 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations in this chapter during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 1068.


(d) *Qualifying criteria.* If you are an engine manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new marine engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:


(1) The marine engine must be identical in all material respects to a land-based engine covered by a valid certificate of conformity for the appropriate model year showing that it meets emission standards for engines of that power rating under 40 CFR part 1039.


(2) The engines may not be used as propulsion marine engines.


(3) You must show that the number of auxiliary marine engines from the engine family must be smaller than the number of land-based engines from the engine family sold in the United States, as follows:


(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.


(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.


(e) *Specific requirements.* If you are an engine manufacturer or vessel manufacturer using this exemption, you must do all of the following:


(1) Make sure the original engine label will remain clearly visible after installation in the vessel. This label or a supplemental label must identify that the original certification is valid for auxiliary marine applications.


(2) Send the Designated Compliance Officer written notification describing your plans before using the provisions of this section. In addition, by February 28 of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you), send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter with all the following information:


(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.


(ii) List the engine models for which you used this exemption in the previous year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(iii) State: “We prepared each listed engine model for marine application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1042.610.”


(3) If you are the certificate holder, you must describe in your application for certification how you plan to produce engines for both land-based and auxiliary marine applications, including projected sales of auxiliary marine engines to the extent this can be determined. If the projected marine sales are substantial, we may ask for the year-end report of production volumes to include actual auxiliary marine engine sales.


(f) *Failure to comply.* If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 1039 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part. Introducing these engines into U.S. commerce as marine engines without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).


(g) *Participation in averaging, banking, and trading.* Engines using the exemption in this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part. These engines may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 1039, as applicable. These engines must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 1039 as applicable if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an emission standard.


(h) *Operator requirements.* The requirements specified for vessel manufacturers, owners, and operators in this subpart (including requirements in 40 CFR part 1068) apply to these engines whether they are certified under this part 1042 or another part as allowed by this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 37243, June 30, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23006, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74150, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34511, June 29, 2021]




