# ยง 48.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *Attorney General* means the Attorney General of the United States or his delegate, other than the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division or other employee in the Antitrust Division. 


(b) The term *Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division* means the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division or his delegate. 


(c) The term *Assistant Attorney General for Administration* means the Assistant Attorney General for Administration or his delegate. 


(d) The term *existing arrangement* means any joint newspaper operating arrangement entered into before July 24, 1970. 


(e) The term *joint newspaper operating arrangement* means any contract, agreement, joint venture (whether or not incorporated), or other arrangement entered into between two or more newspaper owners for the publication of two or more newspaper publications, pursuant to which joint or common production facilities are established or operated and joint or unified action is taken or agreed to be taken with respect to any of the following: Printing; time, method, and field of publication; allocation of production facilities; distribution; advertising solicitation; circulation solicitation; business department; establishment of advertising rates; establishment of circulation rates and revenue distribution: *Provided,* That there is no merger, combination, or amalgamation of editorial or reportorial staffs, and that editorial policies be independently determined. 


(f) The term *newspaper* means a publication produced on newsprint paper which is published in one or more issues weekly (including as one publication any daily newspaper and any Sunday newspaper published by the same owner in the same city, community, or metropolitan area), and in which a substantial portion of the content is devoted to the dissemination of news and editorial opinion. 


(g) The term *party* means any individual, and any partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity. 


(h) The term *person* means any individual, and any partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity. 




