# § 705.18   Article importer and R&D substance reporting options.

For the one-time submission, certain manufacturers have the option to use a streamlined reporting form if they do not know nor can reasonably ascertain information requested under § 705.15, beyond what is listed in this part. Paragraph (a) of this section lists the information which a manufacturer who has imported a PFAS within an article must report to the extent they know or can reasonably ascertain. Paragraph (b) of this section lists the information that manufacturers of PFAS that are solely R&D substances manufactured in volumes no greater than 10 kilograms per year must report to the extent they know or can reasonably ascertain.


(a) *Article reporting.* Any importer of an article which contains a chemical substance that is a PFAS and who meets the reporting requirements described in § 705.10 has the option to submit information to EPA using a streamlined reporting form for that PFAS in the imported article, for each year since January 1, 2011, in which the PFAS was imported in an article. Information must be submitted to the extent the submitter knows or can reasonably ascertain. In the event that actual data is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter, then reasonable estimates may be submitted. The information requested on the streamlined reporting form for article importers includes:


(1) *Company and plant site information.* All company and plant site information requested under § 705.15(a) shall be reported.


(2) *Chemical-specific information.* The following chemical-specific information must be reported for each chemical substance that is a PFAS imported in an article, for each year since January 1, 2011, in which that PFAS was imported within an article.


(i) The common or trade name, the chemical identity, and, except for chemical substances that are Class 1 substances on the TSCA Inventory (Inventory), the representative molecular structure of each PFAS for which such a report is required. Submitters who wish to report chemical substances listed on the confidential portion of the Inventory will need to report the chemical substance using a TSCA Accession Number. If a submitter has a low-volume exemption (LVE) case number for the chemical substance, that number may also be used if a CASRN is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. In addition to reporting the number itself, submitters must specify the type of number they are reporting by selecting from among the codes in table 1 to § 705.15(b)(1)(ii).


(ii) If the specific chemical identity of the PFAS imported in an article is not known to or reasonably ascertainable to the submitter (*e.g.,* if the chemical identity is claimed as confidential business information by the submitter's supplier, or if the submitter knows they have a PFAS but is unable to ascertain its specific chemical identity), the submitter may provide a generic name or description of the PFAS.


(3) *Categories of use.* For each year since January 1, 2011, report the following information on categories of use of each PFAS imported in an article.


(i) *Industrial processing and use information.* A designation indicating the type of industrial processing or use operation(s) at each site that receives a PFAS from the submitter site directly or indirectly (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled by the submitter site or not). For each PFAS that was imported in an article, report the letters which correspond to the appropriate processing or use operation(s) listed in table 2 to § 705.15(c)(1). A particular designation may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one sector that applies to a given designation under this paragraph (a)(3)(i).


(ii) *Industrial activities sector.* A code indicating the sector(s) that best describe the industrial activities associated with each industrial processing or use operation reported under this section. For each PFAS that was imported in an article, report the code that corresponds to the appropriate sector(s) listed in table 3 to § 705.15(c)(2). A particular sector code may need to be reported more than once, to the extent that a submitter reports more than one function code that applies to a given sector code under this paragraph (a)(3)(ii).


(iii) *Sector specific function categories.* For each sector reported under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the applicable code(s) from table 4 to § 705.15(c)(3) must be selected to designate the function category(ies) that best represents the specific manner in which the PFAS in the imported article is used.


(iv) *Consumer and commercial use information.* Using the applicable codes listed in table 5 to § 705.15(c)(4), submitters must designate the consumer and commercial product category(ies) that best describe the consumer and commercial products in which each PFAS that is in an imported article is used (whether the recipient site(s) are controlled by the submitter site or not). If more than 10 codes apply to a PFAS in an imported article, submitters need only report the 10 codes for PFAS that cumulatively represent the largest percentage of the submitter's production volume for that chemical, measured by weight. If none of the listed consumer and commercial product categories accurately describe the consumer and commercial products in which each PFAS is used, the category “Other” may be used, and must include a description of the use.


(v) *Product specific function categories.* For each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, the applicable code(s) described in table 4 to § 705.15(c)(3) must be selected to designate the function category(ies) that best represents the specific manner in which the PFAS in an imported article is used.


(vi) *Consumer or commercial use designation.* Submitters must indicate, for each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, whether the use is a consumer or a commercial use, or both.


(vii) *In or on consumer products intended for children.* Submitters must determine, within each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, whether any amount of each reportable chemical substance manufactured (including imported) by the submitter is present in (for example, a plasticizer chemical substance used to make pacifiers) or on (for example, as a component in the paint on a toy) any consumer products intended for use by children age 14 or younger, regardless of the concentration of the chemical substance remaining in or on the product. Submitters must select from the following options: The chemical substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children; the chemical substance is not used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children; or information as to whether the chemical substance is used in or on any consumer products intended for use by children is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter.


(viii) *Estimated maximum concentration.* For each year where the PFAS in an imported article is used in consumer or commercial products, the submitter must report the estimated typical maximum concentration, measured by weight, of the chemical substance in each consumer and commercial product category reported under paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section. For each PFAS in an imported article in each commercial and consumer product category reported under paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, submitters must select from among the ranges of concentrations listed in table 1 to this paragraph (a)(3)(viii) and report the corresponding code (*i.e.,* AM1 through AM5):


(4) *Imported article production volume.* For each calendar year since January 1, 2011, in which the PFAS was imported in an article, the production volume of the imported article. The imported production volume must be reported to two significant figures of accuracy. The submitter must also provide the unit of measurement of the imported production volume by selecting among the table 2 to this paragraph (a)(4). The submitter must also designate, for each PFAS imported in an article, whether the imported PFAS was ever physically present at the reporting site.


(5) *Additional article data.* The submitter has the option to provide any additional information to EPA that is requested under § 705.15 on the PFAS imported in an article, including supplemental attachments.


(b) *Research and development (R&D).* Any manufacturer of a PFAS R&D substance that was manufactured in volumes no greater than 10 kilograms per year and who meets the reporting requirements described in § 705.10 has the option to submit information to EPA using a streamlined reporting form for each such PFAS, for each year since January 1, 2011, in which the PFAS was manufactured for R&D purposes in volumes no greater than 10 kilograms per year. Information must be submitted to the extent the submitter knows or can reasonably ascertain. In the event that actual data is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter, then reasonable estimates may be submitted. The information requested on the streamlined reporting form for R&D manufacturers includes:


(1) *Company and plant site information.* All company and plant site information requested under § 705.15(a) shall be reported.


(2) *Chemical-specific information.* The following chemical-specific information must be reported for each R&D chemical substance that is a PFAS and each mixture containing a chemical substance that is a PFAS and meets the requirements for the reporting option under this paragraph (b)(2). The information must be reported for each year since January 1, 2011, in which that PFAS was manufactured for R&D purposes in quantities no greater than 10 kilograms per year.


(i) The common or trade name, the chemical identity, and, except for chemical substances that are Class 1 substances on the TSCA Inventory, the representative molecular structure of each PFAS for which such a report is required. Submitters who wish to report chemical substances listed on the confidential portion of the TSCA Inventory will need to report the chemical substance using a TSCA Accession Number. If a submitter has a low-volume exemption (LVE) case number for the chemical substance, that number may also be used if a CASRN is not known to or reasonably ascertainable by the submitter. In addition to reporting the number itself, submitters must specify the type of number they are reporting by selecting from among the codes in table 1 to § 705.15(b)(1)(ii).


(ii) If the specific chemical identity of the PFAS is not known to or reasonably ascertainable to the submitter (*e.g.,* if the chemical identity is claimed as confidential business information by the submitter's supplier, or if the submitter knows they have a PFAS but are unable to ascertain its specific chemical identity), the submitter may provide a generic name or description of the PFAS.


(3) *Production volume.* The submitter must report for each year since January 1, 2011, in which the PFAS was manufactured, the total annual volume (in pounds) of each PFAS domestically manufactured or imported at each site. The total annual domestically manufactured volume (not including imported volume) and the total annual imported volume must be separately reported. These amounts must be reported to two significant figures of accuracy.


(i) A designation indicating, for each PFAS at each site, whether any imported PFAS is ever physically present at the reporting site.


(ii) [Reserved]


(4) *Additional R&D data.* The submitter has the option to provide any additional information to EPA that is requested under § 705.15 on the PFAS, including supplemental attachments.












