# § 2524.30   What are the guidelines for challenge grants?

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of these grants is to challenge high quality AmeriCorps programs to diversify their funding base by matching private dollars they have raised with Corporation support. The Corporation will provide not more than $1 for each $1 raised in cash by the program from private sources in excess of amounts otherwise required to be provided by the program to satisfy the matching funds requirements specified under § 2521.30(g) of this chapter. 


(b) *Eligibility.* Only Corporation grantees that meet all of the following eligibility criteria may apply for challenge grants: (1) They are funded under parts 2520 through 2523 of this chapter. 


(2) They are high quality programs with demonstrated experience in establishing and implementing projects that provide benefits to participants and communities. 


(3) They have operated with Corporation funds for at least six months. 


(4) They have secured the minimum matching funds required by §§ 2521.30(g), 2522.240(b)(6), 2522.250(a)(4), and 2522.250(b)(2) of this chapter. 


(c) *Allowable program activities.* Challenge grants are intended to provide special opportunities for national and community service programs to enroll additional participants or undertake other activities specified by the Corporation. 


(d) *Application procedures.* Eligible applicants must comply with the requirements specified in the Corporation's application materials. 


(e) *Limitation on use of the funds.* Each year the Corporation will establish a maximum award that a program may receive as a challenge grant. 


(f) *Allocation of funds.* The Corporation will determine annually how much funding will be allocated to challenge grants from funds appropriated for AmeriCorps programs. 



---

[N] [59 FR 13805, Mar. 23, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 53760, Sept. 17, 2008]




