# § 63.2505   How do I comply with the alternative standard?

As an alternative to complying with the emission limits and work practice standards for process vents and storage tanks in Tables 1 through 4 to this subpart and the requirements in §§ 63.2455 through 63.2470, you may comply with the emission limits in paragraph (a) of this section and demonstrate compliance in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(a) *Emission limits and work practice standards.* (1) You must route vent streams through a closed-vent system to a control device that reduces HAP emissions as specified in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) If you use a combustion control device, it must reduce HAP emissions as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section. 


(A) To an outlet TOC concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or less. 


(B) To an outlet concentration of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP of 20 ppmv or less. 


(C) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section, if you control halogenated vent streams emitted from a combustion device followed by a scrubber, reduce the hydrogen halide and halogen HAP generated in the combustion device by greater than or equal to 95 percent by weight in the scrubber. 


(ii) If you use a noncombustion control device(s), it must reduce HAP emissions to an outlet total organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP of 50 ppmv or less. 


(2) Any Group 1 process vents within a process that are not controlled according to this alternative standard must be controlled according to the emission limits in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart. 


(b) *Compliance requirements.* To demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the requirements of § 63.1258(b)(5) beginning no later than the initial compliance date specified in § 63.2445, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) You must comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6), and the requirements in § 63.983 and the requirements referenced therein for closed-vent systems, except if you are not reducing organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to any combination of control devices, including a flare or recovery device, you are not required to comply with the requirements in § 63.983(b)(1)(i)(A), (b)(1)(ii), (c), (d)(1)(ii), and (d)(2) and (3).


(2) When § 63.1258(b)(5)(i) refers to §§ 63.1253(d) and 63.1254(c), the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart FFFF.


(3) When § 63.1258(b)(5)(i)(B) refers to “HCl,” it means “total hydrogen halide and halogen HAP” for the purposes of this subpart FFFF.


(4) When § 63.1258(b)(5)(ii) refers to § 63.1257(a)(3), it means § 63.2450(j)(5) for the purposes of this subpart FFFF.


(5) You must submit the results of any determination of the target analytes of predominant HAP in the notification of compliance status report.


(6) If you elect to comply with the requirement to reduce hydrogen halide and halogen HAP by greater than or equal to 95 percent by weight in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Demonstrate initial compliance with the 95-percent reduction by conducting a performance test and setting a site-specific operating limit(s) for the scrubber in accordance with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4) and the requirements of § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein. You must submit the results of the initial compliance demonstration in the notification of compliance status report. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with § 63.2520(f), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.


(ii) Install, operate, and maintain CPMS for the scrubber as specified in §§ 63.994(c) and 63.2450(k), instead of as specified in § 63.1258(b)(5)(i)(C). You must also comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4), as applicable.


(7) If flow to the scrubber could be intermittent, you must install, calibrate, and operate a flow indicator as specified in § 63.2460(c)(7).


(8) Use the operating day as the averaging period for CEMS data and scrubber parameter monitoring data.


(9) The requirements in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to emissions from storage tanks during periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device that do not exceed 240 hr/yr. You may submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hr/yr in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.2470(d). You must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting specified in §§ 63.998(d)(2)(ii) and 63.999(c)(4) for periods of planned routine maintenance.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38559, July 1, 2005; 85 FR 49150, Aug. 12, 2020]




