# § 201.67   Maximum freight charges.

(a) *Ocean freight rates*—(1) *Similar shipments. Similar shipments* means shipments which are similar with respect to type of commodity, commodity rate classification, quantity, vessel flag category (U.S.-or foreign-flag), choice of ports, and other pertinent factors. In determining whether shipments are similar, no effect shall be given to the identity of the shipper or the circumstance that the shipment is or is not financed by the Government of the United States. 


(2) *Maximum charter rates.* (i) USAID will not finance ocean freight under any charter which has not been submitted to and received prior approval by USAID/W. USAID will not approve a charter if the freight rate exceeds: 


(A) The rate prevailing for similar shipments; or 


(B) The lowest rate charged by the vessel for similar shipments on the same voyage. 


(ii) In determining the rate prevailing for similar shipments, recognized sources of charter market rate information will be consulted and, if necessary, will be supplemented by other information which contributes to a realistic determination of the prevailing charter rate. 


(3) *Effect of USAID approval of a charter.* USAID prior approval of a charter shall be confirmed by USAID in writing and shall then be final except in cases where the freight rate exceeds the lowest rate charged by the vessel for similar shipments on the same voyage or where USAID's prior approval is based on false or misleading representations made to USAID by the charterer or vessel owner(s). 


(4) *Maximum liner rates.* USAID will not finance ocean freight for a cargo liner shipment at a rate which exceeds the lowest of the following: 


(i) The conference contract rate or the conference noncontract rate, whichever is lower; 


(ii) The rate named in any tariff or other rate listing for the same destination and commodities on file at the Federal Maritime Commission; or 


(iii) The lowest rate charged by the VOCC for similar shipments on the same voyage.


(5) *Despatch.* (i) The borrower/grantee, or the supplier with respect to despatch earned by the supplier, shall be responsible for refunding to USAID all despatch earned: 


(A) At the port of unloading on c.i.f. or c. & f. shipments, or 


(B) At the port of loading or unloading on f.o.b. or f.a.s. shipments, to the extent that despatch exceeds demurrage incurred on the same voyage. 


(ii) Refunds of despatch, supported by the vessel's signed laytime statement(s), must be transmitted to the Office of Financial Management, USAID, Washington, DC 20523-7702, within 90 days after date of discharge of cargo on which the despatch was earned.


(b) *Airfreight rates.* USAID will not finance airfreight which exceeds the following: 


(1) The rate under any air charter approved by USAID covering the transaction; 


(2) The lowest rate charged by the carrier for similar shipments on the same flight; or 


(3) The rate prevailing in the industry for similar shipments. A similar shipment is one which is similar with respect to type of commodity, commodity rate classification, quantity, flag category, choice of airport, and other pertinent factors. 



---

[N] [55 FR 34232, Aug. 22, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 17535, Apr. 12, 1999]




