# ยง 905.804   Sanctions.

(a) If at any time, HUD finds that a PHA has failed to comply substantially with any provision this part, HUD may impose one or a combination of sanctions, as it determines is necessary. Sanctions associated with failure to obligate or expend in a timely manner are specified at ยง 905.306 of this part. Other possible sanctions that HUD may impose for noncompliance by the PHA include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Issue a corrective action order, at any time, by notifying the PHA of the specific program requirements that the PHA has violated, and specifying that any of the corrective actions listed in this section must be taken. Any corrective action ordered by HUD shall become a condition of the CF ACC Amendment.


(2) Require reimbursement from non-HUD sources.


(3) Limit, withhold, reduce, or terminate Capital Fund or Operating Fund assistance.


(4) Issue a Limited Denial of Participation or Debar responsible PHA officials, pursuant to 2 CFR parts 180 and 2424.


(5) Withhold assistance to the PHA under section 8 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 1437f.


(6) Declare a breach of the CF ACC with respect to some or all of the PHA's functions.


(7) Take any other available corrective action or sanction as HUD deems necessary.


(b) *Right to appeal.* Before taking any action described in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD shall notify the PHA of its finding and proposed action and provide to the PHA an opportunity, within a prescribed period of time, to present any arguments or additional facts and data concerning the finding and proposed action to HUD's Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing.




