# § 1065.370   CLD CO

(a) *Scope and frequency.* If you use a CLD analyzer to measure NO_X_, verify the amount of H_2_O and CO_2_ quench after installing the CLD analyzer and after major maintenance.


(b) *Measurement principles.* H_2_O and CO_2_ can negatively interfere with a CLD's NO_X_ response by collisional quenching, which inhibits the chemiluminescent reaction that a CLD utilizes to detect NO_X_. This procedure and the calculations in § 1065.675 determine quench and scale the quench results to the maximum mole fraction of H_2_O and the maximum CO_2_ concentration expected during emission testing. If the CLD analyzer uses quench compensation algorithms that utilize H_2_O and/or CO_2_ measurement instruments, evaluate quench with these instruments active and evaluate quench with the compensation algorithms applied.


(c) *System requirements.* A CLD analyzer must have a combined H_2_O and CO_2_ quench of ±2% or less, though we strongly recommend a quench of ±1% or less. Combined quench is the sum of the CO_2_ quench determined as described in paragraph (d) of this section, plus the H_2_O quench determined in paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) *CO*_2_*quench verification procedure.* Use the following method to determine CO_2_ quench by using a gas divider that blends binary span gases with zero gas as the diluent and meets the specifications in § 1065.248, or use good engineering judgment to develop a different protocol:


(1) Use PTFE or stainless steel tubing to make necessary connections.


(2) Configure the gas divider such that nearly equal amounts of the span and diluent gases are blended with each other.


(3) If the CLD analyzer has an operating mode in which it detects NO-only, as opposed to total NO_X_, operate the CLD analyzer in the NO-only operating mode.


(4) Use a CO_2_ span gas that meets the specifications of § 1065.750 and a concentration that is approximately twice the maximum CO_2_ concentration expected during emission testing.


(5) Use an NO span gas that meets the specifications of § 1065.750 and a concentration that is approximately twice the maximum NO concentration expected during emission testing.


(6) Zero and span the CLD analyzer. Span the CLD analyzer with the NO span gas from paragraph (d)(5) of this section through the gas divider. Connect the NO span gas to the span port of the gas divider; connect a zero gas to the diluent port of the gas divider; use the same nominal blend ratio selected in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and use the gas divider's output concentration of NO to span the CLD analyzer. Apply gas property corrections as necessary to ensure accurate gas division.


(7) Connect the CO_2_ span gas to the span port of the gas divider.


(8) Connect the NO span gas to the diluent port of the gas divider.


(9) While flowing NO and CO_2_ through the gas divider, stabilize the output of the gas divider. Determine the CO_2_ concentration from the gas divider output, applying gas property correction as necessary to ensure accurate gas division, or measure it using an NDIR. Record this concentration, *x*_CO2act_, and use it in the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675. Alternatively, you may use a simple gas blending device and use an NDIR to determine this CO_2_ concentration. If you use an NDIR, it must meet the requirements of this part for laboratory testing and you must span it with the CO_2_ span gas from paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(10) Measure the NO concentration downstream of the gas divider with the CLD analyzer. Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the transfer line and to account for analyzer response. While the analyzer measures the sample's concentration, record the analyzer's output for 30 seconds. Calculate the arithmetic mean concentration from these data, *x*_NOmeas_. Record *x*_NOmeas_, and use it in the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675.


(11) Calculate the actual NO concentration at the gas divider's outlet, *x*_NOact_, based on the span gas concentrations and *x*_CO2act_ according to Eq. 1065.675-2. Use the calculated value in the quench verification calculations in Eq. 1065.675-1.


(12) Use the values recorded according to this paragraph (d) and paragraph (e) of this section to calculate quench as described in § 1065.675.


(e) *H*_2_O *quench verification procedure.* Use the following method to determine H_2_O quench, or use good engineering judgment to develop a different protocol:


(1) Use PTFE or stainless steel tubing to make necessary connections.


(2) If the CLD analyzer has an operating mode in which it detects NO-only, as opposed to total NO_X_, operate the CLD analyzer in the NO-only operating mode.


(3) Use an NO span gas that meets the specifications of § 1065.750 and a concentration that is near the maximum concentration expected during emission testing.


(4) Zero and span the CLD analyzer. Span the CLD analyzer with the NO span gas from paragraph (e)(3) of this section, record the span gas concentration as *x*_NOdry_, and use it in the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675.


(5) Create a humidified NO span gas by bubbling a NO gas that meets the specifications in § 1065.750 through distilled H_2_O in a sealed vessel or use a device that introduces distilled H_2_O as vapor into a controlled gas flow. If the sample does not pass through a dryer during emission testing, humidify your test gas to an H_2_O level approximately equal to the maximum mole fraction of H_2_O expected during emission testing. If the humidified NO span gas sample does not pass through a sample dryer, the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675 scale the measured H_2_O quench to the highest mole fraction of H_2_O expected during emission testing. If the sample passes through a dryer during emission testing, you must humidify your test gas to an H_2_O level at or above the level determined in § 1065.145(e)(2) for that dryer. For this case, the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675 do not scale the measured H_2_O quench.


(6) Introduce the humidified NO test gas into the sample system. You may introduce it upstream or downstream of any sample dryer that is used during emission testing. Note that the sample dryer must meet the sample dryer verification check in § 1065.342.


(7) Measure the mole fraction of H_2_O in the humidified NO span gas downstream of the sample dryer, *x*_H2Omeas_. We recommend that you measure *x*H_2Omeas_ as close as possible to the CLD analyzer inlet. You may calculate *x*_H2Omeas_ from measurements of dew point, *T*_dew_, and absolute pressure, *p*total.


(8) Use good engineering judgment to prevent condensation in the transfer lines, fittings, or valves from the point where *x*_H2Omeas_ is measured to the analyzer. We recommend that you design your system so the wall temperatures in the transfer lines, fittings, and valves from the point where *x*_H2Omeas_ is measured to the analyzer are at least 5 °C above the local sample gas dew point.


(9) Measure the humidified NO span gas concentration with the CLD analyzer. Allow time for the analyzer response to stabilize. Stabilization time may include time to purge the transfer line and to account for analyzer response. While the analyzer measures the sample's concentration, record the analyzer's output for 30 seconds. Calculate the arithmetic mean of these data, *x*_NOwet_. Record *x*_NOwet_ and use it in the quench verification calculations in § 1065.675.


(f) *Corrective action.* If the sum of the H_2_O quench plus the CO_2_ quench is less than −2% or greater than + 2%, take corrective action by repairing or replacing the analyzer. Before running emission tests, verify that the corrective action successfully restored the analyzer to proper functioning.


(g) *Exceptions.* The following exceptions apply:


(1) You may omit this verification if you can show by engineering analysis that for your NO_X_ sampling system and your emission calculation procedures, the combined CO_2_ and H_2_O interference for your NO_X_ CLD analyzer always affects your brake-specific NO_X_ emission results within no more than ±1% of the applicable NO_X_ standard. If you certify to a combined emission standard (such as a NO_X_ + NMHC standard), scale your NO_X_ results to the combined standard based on the measured results (after incorporating deterioration factors, if applicable). For example, if your final NO_X_ + NMHC value is half of the emission standard, double the NO_X_ result to estimate the level of NO_X_ emissions corresponding to the applicable standard.


(2) You may use a NO_X_ CLD analyzer that you determine does not meet this verification, as long as you try to correct the problem and the measurement deficiency does not adversely affect your ability to show that engines comply with all applicable emission standards.



---

[N] [73 FR 59328, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 73789, Dec. 4, 2008; 75 FR 23041, Apr. 30, 2010; 76 FR 57447, Sept. 15, 2011; 79 FR 23771, Apr. 28, 2014; 81 FR 74168, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34545, June 29, 2021]




