# § 241.4   Relocating retail services; adding new retail service facilities.

(a) *Application.* (1) Except as otherwise provided, this section applies when the Postal Service makes a tentative decision to relocate all retail services from a retail service facility to a separate physical building, or to add a new retail service facility for a community. As used in this section, “retail services” means the single-piece mail services offered to individual members of the public on a walk-in basis, and a “retail service facility” is a physical building where Postal Service employees provide such retail services.




(2) This paragraph (a)(2) applies to temporary additions of retail service or relocations of retail service facilities, emergency relocations of retail services, provisional relocations of retail services, and relocations of retail services within the same development or following redevelopment of a site.




(i) The Postal Service may implement temporary additions of retail service or relocations of retail service facilities without undertaking the process in paragraph (c) of this section when necessary to support Postal Service business for holidays, special events, or overflow business. Temporary additions of retail service and relocations of retail service facilities normally will be limited to 180 days in duration. Any additional incremental time periods of up to 180 days each must be approved by the Vice President, Facilities or his designee.


(ii) The Postal Service may implement emergency relocations without first undertaking the process in paragraph (c) of this section when the Postal Service determines relocation is required to protect Postal Service business due to events such as earthquakes, floods, fire, potential or actual OSHA violations, safety factors, environmental causes, other business disrupting events, or as necessary to protect employees, customers, or the security of the mail. Following an emergency relocation, as soon as the Postal Service determines it is feasible to identify the long-term location for the retail services, the Postal Service will make a tentative decision to remain in the emergency relocation site on a long-term basis, to return to the original retail service facility (if feasible), or to relocate to another site. Unless the decision is to return to the original retail service facility, the Postal Service then will follow the process in paragraph (c) of this section with respect to collecting and considering community input on a proposal to implement that decision.


(iii) The Postal Service may implement provisional relocations in connection with lease terminations or expirations, or in connection with a lessor exercising a right to require the Postal Service to move to alternate premises, when the Postal Service has not already undertaken the process in paragraph (c) of this section for such relocations. Not later than 180 days following a provisional relocation, the Postal Service will make a tentative decision to remain in the provisional relocation site on a long-term basis or to relocate to another site. After that decision, the Postal Service will follow the process in paragraph (c) of this section with respect to collecting and considering community input on a proposal to implement that decision.


(iv) The Postal Service may implement relocations without undertaking the process in paragraph (c) of this section when the new retail service facility is within the same development as the relocated retail service facility. As used in this section, “development” means one or more commercial or mixed-use buildings that share an access point or points from a public right-of-way.


(v) The Postal Service may implement relocations without undertaking the process in paragraph (c) of this section when the relocated retail service facility is within the same site following the redevelopment of the building or development in which the relocated retail service facility was located.


(3) This section applies to tentative decisions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section made on or after June 6, 2023. The rules under § 241.4 in effect prior to that date shall apply to projects described in paragraph (a) of this section undertaken prior to that date.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this section is to provide opportunities for community members and their elected local officials to comment on Postal Service tentative decisions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and to give input on proposals for implementing those decisions (each a “proposal”), and to require the Postal Service to consider any input in arriving at final decisions to proceed with, modify, or cancel proposals.


(c) *Collecting and considering community input.* When the Postal Service makes a tentative decision described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, a Postal Service representative will take the following steps:


(1) *Identify the community and engage local elected officials.* The Postal Service representative will identify the community the Postal Service anticipates would be affected by implementing the proposal, taking into account such factors as the Postal Service determines are appropriate for the proposal. The Postal Service representative then will deliver to one or more local elected public officials a written outline of the proposal and offer to discuss the proposal with them. The Postal Service representative may elect to conduct that discussion either in person or using any other appropriate communication tool, including electronic communications. If the officials accept the offer, then the Postal Service representative will identify the need and outline the proposal that is under consideration to meet it, explain the process by which the Postal Service will solicit and consider input from the affected community, and solicit input from the local officials regarding the proposal.




(2) *Notify the community.* The Postal Service will send an initial news release outlining the proposal to one or more news media serving the community and, if the community has a retail service facility, then the Postal Service also will post a copy of the information given to local officials or the news release in the public lobby of that retail service facility. If the proposal concerns relocating retail services from a leased facility, then, using the most current notice address information in the Postal Service's file for the site, the Postal Service will deliver to the lessor a copy of the information given to local officials, provided, however, that no such notice will be required when the lessor has terminated the Postal Service's lease or has declined to renew the Postal Service lease on terms acceptable to the Postal Service.




(3) *Solicit comments from the community.* The Postal Service will mail written notification of the tentative decision and the proposal to customers within the community and post a notice of the proposal in the retail service facility that would be affected by the proposal, seeking their written input on the proposal and providing an address to which the community and local officials may send written comments on the proposal during the 45 days following the mailing of that notification.


(i)(A) If the proposal concerns relocation, then the Postal Service will:


(*1*) Discuss the reasons for relocating;


(*2*) Identify the site or area, or both, to which the Postal Service anticipates relocating the retail services; and


(*3*) Describe the anticipated size of the retail service facility for the relocated retail services, and the anticipated services to be offered at that site or in that area.


(B) The Postal Service may identify more than one potential relocation site and/or area, for example, when the Postal Service has not selected among competing sites.


(ii)(A) If the proposal concerns adding a new retail service facility for a community, then the Postal Service will:


(*1*) Discuss the reasons for the addition;


(*2*) Identify the site or area, or both, to which the Postal Service anticipates adding the retail service facility; and




(*3*) Describe the anticipated size of the added retail service facility, and the anticipated services to be offered.






(B) The Postal Service may identify more than one potential site and/or area, for example, when the Postal Service has not selected yet among competing sites.


(4) *Consider comments.* After the 45-day comment period, the Postal Service will consider the comments received that identify reasons why the Postal Service's tentative decision and proposal (*e.g.,* to relocate to the selected site, or to add a new retail service facility) is, or is not, the optimal solution for the identified need. Following that consideration, the Postal Service will make a final decision to proceed with, modify, or cancel the proposal. The Postal Service then will inform local officials in writing of its final decision and send an initial news release announcing the final decision to local news media. If the community has a retail service facility, then the Postal Service also will post a copy of the information given to local officials or the news release in the public lobby of that retail service facility. The Postal Service then will implement the final decision.




(5) *Identify any new site or area.* After the written notification under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if the Postal Service decides to use a site or area that it did not identify in the written notification, and this section applies with respect to that new site or area, then the Postal Service will undertake the steps in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section with regard to the new site or area.


(d) *Effect on other obligations and policies.* (1) Nothing in this section shall add to, reduce, or otherwise modify the Postal Service's legal obligations or policies for compliance with:


(i) Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 470, Executive Order 12072, and Executive Order 13006;


(ii) 39 U.S.C. 404(d) and 39 CFR 241.3; or


(iii) 39 U.S.C. 409(f);


(2) These are independent policies or obligations of the Postal Service that are not dependent upon a relocation or addition of a retail service facility.



---

[N] [80 FR 9193, Feb. 20, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 36961, June 6, 2023]




