# § 1704.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Chairman* and *Vice Chairman* mean those Members designated by the President to serve in said positions, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2286(c). 


(b) *Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board* means the Board established under the National Defense Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989. 


(c) *General Counsel* means the Board's principal legal officer, or an attorney serving as Acting General Counsel.


(d) *Meeting* means the deliberations of three or more Members where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business. A meeting does not include:


(1) Notation voting or similar consideration of business for the purpose of recording of votes, whether by circulation of material to the Members individually in writing or by a polling of the Members individually by telephone. 


(2) Action by three or more Members to: 


(i) Open or to close a meeting or to release or to withhold information pursuant to § 1704.5; 


(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting(s); 


(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice as permitted by § 1704.6(b); or 


(iv) Change the subject matter or the determination to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under § 1704.7(b). 


(3) A session attended by three or more Members for which the purpose is to have the Board's staff or expert consultants to the Board brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business on such matters.


(4) A session attended by three or more Members for which the purpose is to have the Department of Energy (including its contractors) or other persons or organizations brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Board business on such matters. 


(5) A gathering of Members for the purpose of holding informal preliminary discussions or exchange of views which do not effectively predetermine official action. 


(e) *Member* means an individual duly appointed and confirmed to the collegial body, known as “the Board.”




