# § 91.1023   Program operating manual requirements.

(a) Each program manager must prepare and keep current a program operating manual setting forth procedures and policies acceptable to the Administrator. The program manager's management, flight, ground, and maintenance personnel must use this manual to conduct operations under this subpart. However, the Administrator may authorize a deviation from this paragraph if the Administrator finds that, because of the limited size of the operation, part of the manual is not necessary for guidance of management, flight, ground, or maintenance personnel. 


(b) Each program manager must maintain at least one copy of the manual at its principal base of operations. 


(c) No manual may be contrary to any applicable U.S. regulations, foreign regulations applicable to the program flights in foreign countries, or the program manager's management specifications. 


(d) The program manager must make a copy of the manual, or appropriate portions of the manual (and changes and additions), available to its maintenance and ground operations personnel and must furnish the manual to— 


(1) Its crewmembers; and 


(2) Representatives of the Administrator assigned to the program manager. 


(e) Each employee of the program manager to whom a manual or appropriate portions of it are furnished under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must keep it up-to-date with the changes and additions furnished to them. 




(f) The program manager must ensure the appropriate parts of the manual are accessible to flight, ground, and maintenance personnel at all times when such personnel are performing their assigned duties.




(g) The information and instructions contained in the manual must be displayed clearly and be retrievable in the English language.




(h) Program managers that are also certificated to operate under part 121 or 135 of this chapter may be authorized to use the operating manual required by those parts to meet the manual requirements of subpart K, provided: 


(1) The policies and procedures are consistent for both operations, or 


(2) When policies and procedures are different, the applicable policies and procedures are identified and used. 



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2001-10047, 68 FR 54561, Sept. 17, 2003, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2022-0912; Amdt. No. 91-368, 88 FR 34443, May 30, 2023]




