# § 220.253   Substitute mortgagors.

(a) *Selling mortgagor.* The mortgagee may effect the release of a mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note only if it obtains the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, as provided by this section. 


(b) *Purchasing mortgagor.* (1) The Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to any mortgage insured under subpart A of this part, if the substitute mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 220.30(d)). 


(2) The Commissioner may approve as a substitute mortgagor an eligible non-occupant mortgagor (as defined in § 220.30(d)) with respect to any mortgage insured under this part, only if the outstanding balance of the mortgage does not exceed the Commissioner's estimate of: 


(i) The replacement cost of the property as of the date the mortgage was originally accepted for insurance, or the date the substitute mortgagor is approved by the Commissioner, which ever is greater, in the case of a dwelling described in § 220.30(a) (1) or (2); or 


(ii) The cost of repair or rehabilitation, plus the Commissioner's estimate of the replacement cost of the property as of either the date the mortgage was originally accepted for insurance, or the date the substitute mortgagor is approved by the Commissioner, whichever is greater, in the case of a dwelling described in § 220.30(a) (3) or (4). 


(c) *Applicability—current mortgagor.* Paragraph (b) of this section applies to the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, only if the mortgage executed by the original mortgagor met the conditions of § 203.258(c) of this chapter. 


(d) *Applicability—earlier mortgagor.* The occupancy and similar requirements set forth in § 203.258(d) of this chapter apply to mortgages insured under subpart A of this part. 


(e) Mortgagees approved for participation in the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.3 may, subject to limitations established by the Commissioner, themselves approve an appropriate substitute mortgagor under this section for mortgages which they own or service, and need not obtain further specific approval from the Commissioner.


(f) *Definition.* As used in this section, the term *substitute mortgagor* includes: (1) Persons who, upon the release by a mortgagee of a previous mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note, assume this liability and agree to pay the mortgage debts; and (2) persons who purchase without assuming liability on the mortgage note, or purchase where no release is given by the mortgagee to the previous mortgagor.



---

[N] [55 FR 34808, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 58351, Dec. 9, 1992] 




