# ยง 61.61   Agreement and funding actions.

(a) *Agreement.* When VA selects an applicant for grant or per diem award under this part, VA will incorporate the requirements of this part into an agreement to be executed by VA and the applicant. VA makes the final decision on applicant selection. VA may negotiate with an applicant regarding the details of the agreement and funding, as necessary. VA will enforce the agreement through such action as may be appropriate, including temporarily withholding cash payments pending correction of a deficiency. Appropriate actions include actions in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200.


(b) *Obligating funds.* Upon execution of the agreement, VA will obligate funds to cover the amount of the approved grant/per diem, subject to the availability of funding. Payments will be for services rendered, contingent on submission of documentation in the form of invoices or purchase agreements and inspections, as VA deems necessary. VA will make payments on its own schedule to reimburse for amounts expended. Except for increases in the rate of per diem, VA will not increase the amount obligated for assistance under this part after the initial obligation of funds.


(c) *Deobligating funds.* VA may deobligate all or parts of funds obligated under this part:


(1) If the actual total cost for assistance is less than the total cost stated in the application; or


(2) If the recipient fails to comply with the requirements of this part.


(d) *Deobligation procedure.* Before deobligating funds under this section, VA will issue a notice of intent to terminate payments. The recipient will have 30 days to submit documentation demonstrating why payments should not be terminated. After review of any such documentation, VA will issue a final decision concerning termination of payment.


(e) *Other government funds.* No funds provided under this part may be used to replace Federal, state or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist homeless veterans.



---

[N] [78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015; 86 FR 33524, June 25, 2021]




