# § 429.60   Commercial packaged boilers.

(a) *Determination of represented value.* Manufacturers must determine the represented value, which includes the certified rating, for each basic model of commercial packaged boilers either by testing in accordance with § 431.86 of this chapter, in conjunction with the applicable sampling provisions, or by applying an AEDM.

(1) *Units to be tested.* (i) If the represented value is determined through testing, the general requirements of § 429.11 are applicable, except that, if the represented value is determined through testing pursuant to § 431.86(c) of this chapter, the number of units selected for testing may be one; and

(ii) For each basic model selected for testing, a sample of sufficient size shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that—


(A) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:


(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:


(*2*) The upper 95 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.05, where:


(B) Any represented value of energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the lower of:


(*1*) The mean of the sample, where:


(*2*) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.95, where:


(2) *Alternative efficiency determination methods.* In lieu of testing, a represented value of efficiency or consumption for a basic model of commercial packaged boiler must be determined through the application of an AEDM pursuant to the requirements of § 429.70 and the provisions of this section, where:


(i) Any represented value of energy consumption or other measure of energy use of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the output of the AEDM and less than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model; and


(ii) Any represented value of energy efficiency or other measure of energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the output of the AEDM and greater than or equal to the Federal standard for that basic model.


(3) The rated input for a basic model reported in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be the maximum rated input listed on the nameplate and in manufacturer literature for the commercial packaged boiler basic model. In the case where the nameplate and the manufacturer literature are not identical, DOE will use the nameplate on the unit for determining the rated input.


(4) For a model of commercial packaged boiler capable of supplying either steam or hot water, representative values for steam mode must be based on efficiency in steam mode and representative values for hot water mode must be based on either the efficiency in hot water mode or steam mode in accordance with the test procedure in § 431.86 of this chapter and the provisions of this section.


(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to commercial packaged boilers; and


(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public, equipment-specific information:


(i) If oil-fired, the manufacturer (including brand, if applicable) and model number of the burner;


(ii) The rated input in British thermal units per hour (Btu/h);


(iii) The combustion efficiency in percent (%) to the nearest tenth of one percent or thermal efficiency in percent (%) to the nearest one tenth of one percent, as specified in § 431.87 of this chapter; and


(iv) For a basic model of commercial packaged boiler that cannot be tested using the standard inlet temperatures required in appendix A to subpart E of part 431, the average inlet water temperature measured at Point B in Figure C9 of ANSI/AHRI Standard 1500-2015 (incorporated by reference, see § 429.4) at which the model was tested.


(3) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following additional equipment-specific information:


(i) Whether the basic model is engineered-to-order; and


(ii) For any basic model rated with an AEDM, whether the manufacturer elects the witness test option for verification testing. (See § 429.70(c)(5)(iii) for options). However, the manufacturer may not select more than 10% of AEDM-rated basic models to be eligible for witness testing.


(iii) For basic models of commercial packaged boilers that have a rated input greater than 5,000,000 Btu/h, a declaration about whether the certified efficiency rating is based on testing conducted pursuant to § 431.86(c) of this chapter.


(4) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report may include supplemental testing instructions in PDF format. If necessary to run a valid test, the equipment-specific, supplemental information must include any additional testing and testing set up instructions (*e.g.,* specific operational or control codes or settings), which would be necessary to operate the basic model under the required conditions specified by the relevant test procedure. A manufacturer may also include with a certification report other supplementary items in PDF format (*e.g.,* manuals) for DOE consideration in performing testing under subpart C of this part.


(5) Any field tested pursuant to § 431.86(c) of this chapter basic model of a commercial packaged boiler that has not been previously certified through testing or an AEDM must be certified within 15 days of commissioning.


(c) Alternative methods for determining efficiency or energy use for commercial packaged boilers can be found in § 429.70.



---

[N] [79 FR 25504, May 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 151, Jan. 5, 2015; 81 FR 89303, Dec. 9, 2016]




