# § 142.215   Approved equipment.

(a) All portable fire extinguishers, semi-portable fire-extinguishing systems, and fixed fire-extinguishing systems required by this part must be approved by the Commandant (CG-ENG). Where other equipment in this part is required to be approved, such equipment requires the specific approval of the Commandant.


(b) A listing of approved equipment and materials may be found online at *https://cgmix.uscg.mil/equipment*. Each cognizant OCMI may be contacted for information concerning approved equipment and materials.


(c) New installations of fire-extinguishing and fire-detection equipment of a type not required, or in excess of that required by this part, may be permitted—


(1) If Coast Guard approved;


(2) If accepted by the local OCMI or TPO, as applicable; or


(3) If equipment and components are listed and labeled by an independent Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL), as that term is defined in 29 CFR 1910.7, and are designed, installed, tested, and maintained in accordance with an appropriate industry standard and the manufacturer's specific guidance.


(d) Existing equipment and installations, of a type not required, or in excess of that required by this part, not meeting the applicable requirements of this part may be continued in service so long as they are in good condition and accepted by the local OCMI or TPO.







---

[N] [USCG-2006-24412, 81 FR 40101, June 20, 2016, as amended by USCG-2017-1060, 83 FR 8180, Feb. 26, 2018; USCG-2017-1060, 83 FR 53822, Oct. 25, 2018]






