# § 230.13   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).

An EIS for feasibility or continuing authority reports and certain planning/engineering reports may be combined with or integrated into the report in accordance with 40 CFR 1500.4(o) and 1506.4. An EIS combined with the report shall follow the format in 40 CFR 1502.10, follow the main report, use colored paper and not be an attachment or appendix. An EIS integrated within the report may follow the instructions in the last paragraph of 40 CFR 1502.10. Additional guidance on combining and integrating EISs is located in ER 1105-2-60. Where the EIS is not combined with or integrated into the project document, the EIS shall be a separate document and follow the format in 40 CFR 1502.10. CEQ regulations suggest maximum lengths for the text of an EIS at 40 CFR 1502.07. An effort should be exerted to cover the substantive topics simply and concisely to the extent practicable, and consistent with producing a legally and technically adequate EIS. Normally, the CEQ page limits should be met.


(a) *Draft and final EISs.* Guidance on EISs prepared for planning and certain planning/engineering studies is contained in ER 1105-2-10 thru 60. 33 CFR part 325, appendix B contains guidance for regulatory actions. For final EISs which are not combined with or integrated into the report, the final EIS may take the form of an “abbreviated” document described in 40 CFR 1503.4(c). An abbreviated final EIS should consist of a new title page, summary, errata or correction sheet(s) and comments and responses. In filing the abbreviated final EIS with EPA (Washington Office), five copies of the draft EIS shall be included in the transmittal. District commanders shall be responsible for determining the type of final EIS to prepare.


(b) *Supplements.* A supplement to the draft or final EIS should be prepared whenever required as discussed in 40 CFR 1502.09(c). A supplement to a draft EIS should be prepared and filed in the same manner as a draft EIS and should be titled “Supplement I”, “Supplement II”, etc. The final EIS should address the changes noted in the supplement and substantive comments received as a result of circulation of the document. A supplement to a final EIS should be prepared and filed first as a *draft* supplement and then as a final supplement. Supplements will be filed and circulated in the same manner as a draft and final EIS (including the abbreviated procedure discussed in 13a. above). Supplements to a draft or final EIS filed before 30 July 1979 may follow the format of the previously filed EIS. Supplements to a draft EIS filed after this date will follow the format outlined in 40 CFR 1502.10. References to the draft or final EIS being supplemented should be used to eliminate repetitive discussions in order to focus on the important issues and impacts. The transmittal letter to EPA as well as the cover sheet should clearly identify the title and purpose of the document as well as the title and filing date of the previous EIS being supplemented and how copies can be obtained. The decision may be made on the proposed action by the appropriate Corps official no sooner than 30 days after the final supplement has been on file. A record of decision will be signed when the decision is made.


(c) *Tiering.* Tiering is discussed in 40 CFR 1502.20 and 1508.28 and should be used in appropriate cases. The initial broad or programmatic EIS must present sufficient information regarding overall impacts of the proposed action so that the decision-makers can make a reasoned judgment on the merits of the action at the present stage of planning or development and exclude from consideration issues already decided or not ready for decision. The initial broad EIS should also identify data gaps and discuss future plans to supplement the data and prepare and circulate site specific EISs or EAs as appropriate.


(d) *Other reports.* District commanders may also publish periodic fact sheets and/or other supplemental information documents on long-term or complex EISs to keep the public informed on the status of the proposed action. These documents will not be filed officially with EPA.




