# § 207.6   Notice of probable violation and remedial order.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* (1) This section establishes the procedures for determining the nature and extent of violations of this subpart and the procedures for issuance of a notice of probable violation, a remedial order or a remedial order for immediate compliance. 


(2) When the DOE discovers that there is reason to believe a violation of any provision of this subpart, or any order issued thereunder, has occurred, is continuing or is about to occur, the DOE may conduct proceedings to determine the nature and extent of the violation and may issue a remedial order thereafter. The DOE may commence such proceeding by serving a notice of probable violation or by issuing a remedial order for immediate compliance. 


(b) *Notice of probable violation.* (1) The DOE may begin a proceeding under this subpart by issuing a notice of probable violation if the DOE has reason to believe that a violation has occurred, is continuing, or is about to occur. 


(2) Within 10 days of the service of a notice of probable violation, the person upon whom the notice is served may file a reply with the DOE office that issued the notice of probable violation at the address provided in § 205.12 of this chapter. The DOE may extend the 10-day period for good cause shown. 


(3) The reply shall be in writing and signed by the person filing it. The reply shall contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the act or transaction that is the subject of the notice of probable violation. Such facts shall include a complete statement of the business or other reasons that justify the act or transaction, it appropriate; a detailed description of the act or transaction; and a full discussion of the pertinent provisions and relevant facts reflected in any documents submitted with the reply. Copies of all relevant documents shall be submitted with the reply. 


(4) The reply shall include a discussion of all relevant authorities, including, but not limited to, DOE rulings, regulations, interpretations, and decisions on appeals and exceptions relied upon to support the particular position taken. 


(5) The reply should indicate whether the person requests or intends to request a conference regarding the notice. Any request not made at the time of the reply shall be made as soon thereafter as possible to insure that the conference is held when it will be most beneficial. A request for a conference must conform to the requirements of subpart M of part 205 of this chapter. 


(6) If a person has not filed a reply with the DOE within the 10-day period provided, and the DOE has not extended the 10-day period, the person shall be deemed to have conceded the accuracy of the factual allegations and legal conclusions stated in the notice of probable violation. 


(7) If the DOE finds, after the 10-day period provided in § 207.6(b)(2), that no violation has occurred, is continuing, or is about to occur, or that for any reason the issuance of a remedial order would not be appropriate, it shall notify, in writing, the person to whom a notice of probable violation has been issued that the notice is rescinded. 


(c) *Remedial order.* (1) If the DOE finds, after the 10-day period provided in § 207.6(b)(2), that a violation has occurred, is continuing, or is about to occur, the DOE may issue a remedial order. The order shall include a written opinion setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis of the remedial order. 


(2) A remedial order issued under this subpart shall be effective upon issuance, in accordance with its terms, until stayed, suspended, modified or rescinded. The DOE may stay, suspend, modify or rescind a remedial order on its own initiative or upon application by the person to whom the remedial order is issued. Such action and application shall be in accordance with the procedures for such proceedings provided for in part 205 of this chapter. 


(3) A remedial order may be referred at any time to the Department of Justice for appropriate action in accordance with § 207.7. 


(d) *Remedial order for immediate compliance.* (1) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the DOE may issue a remedial order for immediate compliance, which shall be effective upon issuance and until rescinded or suspended, if it finds: 


(i) There is a strong probability that a violation has occurred, is continuing or is about to occur; 


(ii) Irreparable harm will occur unless the violation is remedied immediately; and 


(iii) The public interest requires the avoidance of such irreparable harm through immediate compliance and waiver of the procedures afforded under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(2) A remedial order for immediate compliance shall be served promptly upon the person against whom such order is issued by telex or telegram, with a copy served by registered or certified mail. The copy shall contain a written statement of the relevant facts and the legal basis for the remedial order for immediate compliance, including the findings required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 


(3) The DOE may rescind or suspend a remedial order for immediate compliance if it appears that the criteria set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are no longer satisfied. When appropriate, however, such a suspension or rescission may be accompanied by a notice of probable violation issued under paragraph (b) of this section. 


(4) If at any time in the course of a proceeding commenced by a notice of probable violation the criteria set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section are satisfied, the DOE may issue a remedial order for immediate compliance, even if the 10-day period for reply specified in § 207.6(b)(2) of this part has not expired. 


(5) At any time after a remedial order for immediate compliance has become effective the DOE may refer such order to the Department of Justice for appropriate action in accordance with § 207.7 of this part. 


(e) *Remedies.* A remedial order or a remedial order for immediate compliance may require the person to whom it is directed to take such action as the DOE determines is necessary to eliminate or to compensate for the effects of a violation. 


(f) *Appeal.* (1) No notice of probable violation issued pursuant to this subpart shall be deemed to be an action of which there may be an administrative appeal. 


(2) Any person to whom a remedial order or a remedial order for immediate compliance is issued under this subpart may file an appeal with the DOE Office of Exceptions and Appeals in accordance with the procedures for such appeal provided in subpart H of part 205 of this chapter. The appeal must be filed within 10 days of service of the order from which the appeal is taken. 




