# § 1040.3   Definitions—General.

(a) *Academic institution* includes any school, academy, college, university, institute, or other association, organization, or agency conducting or administering any aid, benefit, service, project, or facility designed to educate or train individuals. 


(b) *Administrative law judge* means a person appointed by the reviewing authority to preside over a hearing held under this part. 


(c) *Agency* or *Federal agency* refers to any Federal department or agency which extends Federal financial assistance. 


(d) *Applicant for assistance* means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by a Department official or by a primary recipient as a condition to becoming eligible for Federal financial assistance. 


(e) *Assistant Attorney General* refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice. 


(f) *Director, FAPD* refers to the Director, Federally Assisted Programs Division, Office of Equal Opportunity, DOE. 


(g) *Compliance Review* means an analysis of a recipient's selected employment practices or delivery of services for adherence to provisions of any of the subparts of this part. 


(h) *Department* means the Department of Energy (DOE). 


(i) *FERC* means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, DOE. 


(j) Where designation of persons by race, color, or national origin is required, the following designations are to be used: 


(1) *Black,* not of Hispanic origin. A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. 


(2) *Hispanic.* A person of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American or other Spanish Culture or origin, regardless of race. 


(3) *Asian or Pacific Islander.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian Subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. This includes, for example, China, India, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, Hawaiian Islands, and Samoa. 


(4) *American Indian or Alaskan Native.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North America and who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition. 


(5) *White, not of Hispanic origin.* A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, North Africa, or the Middle East.


(k) *Director* means the Director, Office of Equal Opportunity, DOE. 


(l) *Disposition* means any treatment, handling, decision, sentencing, confinement, or other proscription of conduct. 


(m) *Employment practices,* see individual section headings. 


(n) *Facility* means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property or interest in such property, and the provision of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration, or acquisition of facilities. 


(o) *Federal financial assistance* includes: 


(1) Grants and loans of Federal funds, 


(2) The grant or donation of Federal property and interest in property, 


(3) The detail of or provision of services by Federal personnel, 


(4) The sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property, the furnishing of services without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by the sale, lease, or furnishing of services to the recipient, and 


(5) Any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance. 


(p) *General Counsel* mean the Office of the General Counsel Department of Energy. 


(q) *Government organization* means the political subdivision for a prescribed geographical area. 


(r) *Investigations* include fact-finding efforts and attempts to secure voluntary resolution of complaints. 


(s) *Noncompliance* means the failure of a recipient or subrecipient to comply with any subpart of this part. 


(t) *Primary recipient* means any person, group, organization, state, or local unit of government which is authorized or required to extend Federal financial assistance to another recipient. 


(u) *Program or activity* and *program* mean all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (u)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (u)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(v) *Responsible Departmental or DOE Official* means the official of the Department of Energy that has been assigned the principal responsibility for administration of the law extending Federal financial assistance. 


(w) *Reviewing authority* means the component of the Department delegated authority by the Secretary to appoint, and to review the decisions of, administrative law judges in cases arising under this part. 


(x) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Energy. 


(y) The term *United States* includes the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Island, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, and all other territories and possessions of the United States, and the term *State* includes any one of the foregoing. 


(z) *Headquarters* means DOE offices located in Washington, D.C. 



---

[N] [45 FR 40515, June 13, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51346, Aug. 26, 2003]




