# § 321.7   Authorized cash payments.

(a) *General.* Subject to the terms and conditions appearing on the securities, the governing regulations, and the provisions of this part, and any instructions issued in connection therewith, an agent may make payment of savings bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, EE, and I, and savings notes, presented for cash redemption. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d), and (f) of this section, the securities must be presented by an individual whose name is inscribed on the securities as owner or coowner, and who is known to the agent, or who can establish his or her identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines (See § 321.11(b)).


(b) *Change of name by marriage.* If the name of the presenter has been changed by marriage from that shown on the security, and the agent knows or establishes that the presenter and the person whose name appears on the security are one and the same individual, the agent may pay the security in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. The signature to the request for payment should show both names, e.g., “Mary J. Smith, changed by marriage from Mary T. Jones.”


(c) *Parent of a minor.* Payment of a security bearing the name of a minor child, who is not of sufficient competency and understanding to sign the request for payment and comprehend the nature of the act, may be made to either parent with whom the minor resides or to whom custody has been granted, provided the form of registration does not indicate that a guardian or similar representative of the estate of the minor has been appointed or is otherwise legally qualified. Payment under this subsection may not be made to any person other than a parent. The parent requesting payment must sign the request for payment in the form, e.g., “John A. Jones, on behalf of John C. Jones.” The following endorsement must be typed or imprinted on the back of the security:


(d) *Payment to beneficiary.* An agent may redeem a security registered “A P.O.D. [payable on death to] B” for cash at the request of the surviving beneficiary following the owner's death. A copy of the owner's death certificate, certified under seal of the State or local registrar, must be furnished to support the request for payment.


(e) *Payment to a legal representative designated on a security by name and title.* An agent may redeem a security registered in the name and title of a legal representative as defined in § 321.1, if the legal representative is known to the agent, or can establish identity in accordance with Treasury instructions and guidelines. The request for payment on the back of each security must be signed by the legal representative designated by name and title in the registration on the front of the security, or by a person authorized or empowered to act for a corporate legal representative so designated. The full title of the legal representative should be shown adjacent to each signature and, in the case of a corporate legal representative, the full corporate name, as well as the title, i.e., vice president, trust officer, etc., should be shown. Examples:


(f) *Payment to a legal representative of a decedent's estate not designated on a security.* An agent may redeem a security bearing the names of deceased persons in the registration, if the legal representative of the estate of the last deceased registrant:


(1) Presents the security;


(2) Signs the request for payment on the back of the security, showing the representative's full title adjacent to the signature; and


(3) Presents acceptable evidence of the legal representative's appointment and of the dates of death of all persons named in the security's registration, in accordance with this part and the appendix.


(g) *Interest reporting.* A paying agent is required to report interest in the amount of $10 or more, paid as part of the redemption value of securities, to the payee and to the Internal Revenue Service, in accordance with 26 CFR 1.6049-4. (See Item 26 of the appendix to this part for information concerning the education feature of Series EE savings bonds issued on or after January 1, 1990, and of Series I savings bonds.)



---

[N] [53 FR 37511, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 35395, Aug. 29, 1990; 63 FR 38042, July 14, 1998]




