# § 334.870   San Diego Harbor, Calif.; restricted area.

(a) *Restricted area at Bravo Pier, Naval Air Station*—(1) *The area.* The water of the Pacific Ocean in North San Diego Bay in an area extending from the western boundary of North Island about 0.2 nautical miles bayward and basically outlined as follows:


(2) *The regulations.* (i) The restricted area shall not be open to swimming, fishing, mooring or anchorage.


(ii) Transit will be allowed through the restricted area except that no transit will be allowed within 100 feet of the ammunition pier (Bravo Pier). All unauthorized vessels entering the restricted area shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay. Only vessels owned by, under hire to, or performing work for the Naval Air Station or the Naval Weapons Station may operate within 100 feet of the ammunition pier.


(b) *Restricted area at U.S. Naval Degaussing Station*—(1) *The area.* That portion of San Diego Bay near Point Loma, inclosed by lines connecting the following points, which are rectangular coordinates and are referred to U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey station “Old Town” as their origin:


(2) *The regulations.* (i) There shall be no introduction of external magnetic field sources within the area.


(ii) Craft of any size shall not be excluded from transiting the area. However, they shall proceed through the area by the most direct route without delay or loitering. On occasion, access to the bait barges may be delayed for intermittent periods not exceeding 30 minutes.


(iii) No craft of any size shall lay-to or anchor within the area except on prior permission granted by the Officer in Charge, U.S. Naval Degaussing Station.


(c) *Restricted area between Ballast Point and Zuniga Point*—(1) *The area.* An area in San Diego Bay between Ballast Point and Zuniga Point inclosed by lines connecting the following stations:


(2) *The regulations.* (i) No vessel shall anchor within the restricted area at any time.


(ii) Dredging, dragging, seining, other fishing operations, and other activities not under the direction of the United States, which might foul underwater installations within the restricted area, are prohibited.


(iii) All tows entering the restricted area shall be streamed and shortened to the seaward of the area and towing appendages and catenaries shall not be dragged along the bottom while proceeding through the area.


(iv) All vessels entering the restricted area shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay.


(d) *Restricted area at the Naval Supply Center Pier*—(1) *The area.* The waters of San Diego Bay extending approximately 100 feet out from the north, west and south sides of the Naval Supply Center Pier enclosed by lines connecting the following stations:


(2) *The regulations.* (i) No vessel or craft of any size shall lie-to or anchor in the restricted area at any time other than a vessel operated by or for the U.S. Navy, U.S. Coast Guard, other authorized military components, or other vessels authorized by Commander Naval Base, San Diego or his designee.


(ii) Loitering, dredging, dragging, seining, fishing and similar activities within the restricted area are prohibited.


(e) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Base, San Diego, California, and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [17 FR 5951, July 2, 1952, as amended at 29 FR 9710, July 18, 1964; 35 FR 16370, Oct. 20, 1970; 49 FR 33646, Aug. 24, 1984. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 27102, June 29, 1990; 55 FR 31689, Aug. 3, 1990]




