# § 212.8   Correction of errors in certificates of registration.

(a) *General.* (1) This section prescribes conditions relating to the correction of clerical or typographical errors in a certificate of registration of a vessel design, under section 1319 of title 17 of the United States Code, as amended by Public Law 105-304.


(2) For the purposes of this section, a *basic registration* means registration of a vessel design made under sections 1310 through 1314 of title 17 of the United States Code, as amended by Public Law 105-304.


(3) No correction of the information in a basic registration will be made except pursuant to the provisions of this § 212.8. As an exception, where it is discovered that the record of a vessel design registration contains a clerical or typographical error made by the Copyright Office, the Office will take appropriate measures to rectify its error. Correction will be made only of clerical or typographical errors; errors of a different nature cannot be corrected and there is no procedure to amplify the registration record with additional information.


(b) *Application for correction of error in certificate.* At any time after registration of a vessel design, the Copyright Office will correct a clerical or typographical error in the registration upon the application of the owner of the registered design or the owner's authorized agent.


(c) *Form and content of application to correct registration.* (1) An application to correct a registration shall be made on a form prescribed by the Copyright Office, shall be accompanied by the appropriate filing fee identified in § 201.3(c) and shall contain the following information:


(i) The make and model of the vessel that embodies the registered design;


(ii) The registration number of the basic registration;


(iii) The year when the basic registration was completed;


(iv) The name or names of the designer or designers of the vessel design, and the owner or owners of the vessel design, as they appear in the basic registration;


(v) The space number and heading or description of the part of the basic registration where the error occurred;


(vi) A transcription of the erroneous information as it appears in the basic registration;


(vii) A statement of the correct information as it should have appeared;


(viii) If desired, an explanation of the error or its correction;


(ix) The name and address:


(A) To which the correspondence concerning the application should be sent; and


(B) To which the certificate of correction should be mailed; and


(x) The certification shall consist of:


(A) The typed, printed, or handwritten signature of the owner of the registered design or of the duly authorized agent of such owner (who shall also be identified);


(B) The date of the signature and, if the signature is handwritten, the typed or printed name of the person whose signature appears; and


(C) A statement that the person signing the application is the owner of the registered design or of the duly authorized agent of such owner, and that the statements made in the application are correct to the best of that person's knowledge.


(2) The form prescribed by the Copyright Office for the foregoing purposes is designated “Application to Correct a Design Registration (Form DC)”. Copies of the form are available free upon request to the Public Information Office, Library of Congress, Copyright Office, 101 Independence Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20559-6000 or on the Copyright Office website at *http://www.copyright.gov/forms/formdc.pdf.*

(3) Copies, phonorecords or supporting documents cannot be made part of the record of a corrected certificate of registration and should not be submitted with the application.


(d) *Fee.* The filing fee for an application to correct a certificate of registration of a vessel design is prescribed in § 201.3(c).



---

[N] [71 FR 46402, Aug. 14, 2006, as amended at 82 FR 9366, Feb. 6, 2017; 83 FR 66630, Dec. 27, 2018]




