# § 721.7210   Epoxidized copolymer of phenol and substituted phenol.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as epoxidized copolymer of phenol and substituted phenol (PMN P-91-598) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply once the substance is a component of a highly densified tablet formulation of an epoxy molding compound. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). 


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44071, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 62 FR 42692, Aug. 8, 1997]




