# § 32.33   Definitions.

*Application* means claim (*i.e.*, a threshold claim or a financial claim).


*Assistance* means financial assistance.


*Child of an eligible public safety officer* means the child of a public safety officer, which officer is an eligible public safety officer.


*Educational assistance benefits* means benefits specifically to assist in paying educational expenses.


*Educational expenses* means such of the following as may be in furtherance of the educational, professional, or vocational objective of the program of education that forms the basis of a financial claim:


(1) Tuition and fees, as described in 20 U.S.C. 1087*ll*(1) (higher education assistance);


(2) Reasonable expenses for—


(i) Room and board (if incurred for attendance on at least a half-time basis);


(ii) Books;


(iii) Computer equipment;


(iv) Supplies;


(v) Transportation; and


(3) For attendance on at least a three-quarter-time basis, a standard allowance for miscellaneous personal expenses that is the greater of—


(i) The allowance for such expenses, as established by the eligible educational institution for purposes of financial aid; or


(ii) $200.00 per month.


*Eligible educational expenses* means a claimant's educational expenses, reduced by the amount of educational assistance benefits from non-governmental organizations that the claimant has received or will receive.


*Eligible public safety officer* means a public safety officer—


(1) With respect to whose death, benefits under subpart B of this part properly—


(i) Have been paid; or


(ii) Would have been paid but for operation of the Act, at 34 U.S.C. 10281(f); or


(2) With respect to whose disability, benefits under subpart C of this part properly—


(i) Have been paid; or


(ii) Would have been paid, but for operation of—


(A) Paragraph (b) of § 32.6; or


(B) The Act, at 34 U.S.C. 10281(f).


*Financial assistance* means financial assistance, as described in the Act, at 34 U.S.C. 10302.


*Financial claim* means a request for financial assistance, with respect to attendance at a program of education, for a particular grading period.


*Financial need*—An individual is in financial need for a particular grading period to the extent that the amount of his eligible educational expenses for that period exceed the sum of—


(1) The amount of his educational assistance benefits as described in the Act, at 34 U.S.C. 10302(a)(3); and


(2) His expected family contribution calculated pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 1087nn (higher education assistance).


*Funds* means financial assistance.


*Grading period* means the period of attendance (*e.g.*, a semester, a trimester, a quarter) in a program of education, after (or with respect to) which period grades are assigned, units of credit are awarded, or courses are considered completed, as determined by the eligible educational institution.


*Prospective financial claim* means a financial claim with respect to a grading period that ends after the claim is filed.


*Retroactive financial claim* means a financial claim with respect to a grading period that ends before the claim is filed.


*Spouse of an eligible public safety officer at the time of the officer's death or on the date of a totally and permanently disabling injury* means the spouse of a public safety officer (which officer is an eligible public safety officer) as of—


(1) The date of the officer's death (with respect to a claim by virtue of such death); or


(2) The injury date (with respect to a claim by virtue of the officer's disability).


*Threshold claim* means a request for determination of general eligibility to receive financial assistance.



---

[N] [71 FR 46037, Aug. 10, 2006, as amended at 83 FR 22386, May 15, 2018]




