# § 522.1451   Moxidectin microspheres for injection.

(a) *Specifications.* The drug product consists of two separate vials. One vial contains 10 percent moxidectin microspheres and the second vial contains a vehicle for constitution of the moxidectin microspheres.


(1) Each milliliter (mL) of constituted suspension contains 3.4 milligrams (mg) moxidectin.


(2) Each mL of constituted suspension contains 10 mg moxidectin.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 54771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use in dogs*—(1) *Amount.* (i) Using the suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, administer 0.05 mL of the constituted suspension per kilogram (kg) of body weight (0.023 mL per pound (lb)) as a single subcutaneous injection to provide 0.17 mg/kg body weight (0.0773 mg/lb).


(ii) Using the suspension described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, administer 0.05 mL of the constituted suspension/kg of body weight (0.023 mL/lb) as a single subcutaneous injection to provide 0.5 mg/kg body weight (0.23 mg/lb).


(2) *Indications for use*—(i) *Suspension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.* For prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis* in dogs 6 months of age and older; and for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm (*Ancylostoma caninum* and *Uncinaria stenocephala*) infections.


(ii) *Suspension described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.* For prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis* for 12 months in dogs 12 months of age and older; and for treatment of existing larval and adult hookworm (*Ancylostoma caninum* and *Uncinaria stenocephala*) infections.


(3) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [85 FR 4208, Jan. 24, 2020]




