# § 4280.416   Applicant eligibility.

To receive an RBDG under this subpart, an applicant must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. If an award is made to an applicant, that applicant (grantee) must continue to meet the requirements specified in this section. If the grantee does not, then grant funds may be recovered from the grantee by the Agency in accordance with Departmental Regulations.


(a) *Type of applicant.* The Applicant must be one of the following:


(1) A Public Body/Government Entity;


(2) An Indian Tribe; or


(3) A Nonprofit entity.


(b) *Financial strength and expertise.* The Applicant must have sufficient financial strength and expertise in activities proposed in the application to ensure accomplishment of the described activities and objectives.


(1) Financial strength will be analyzed by the Agency based on financial data provided in the application. The analysis will consider the applicant's tangible net worth, which must be positive, and whether the applicant has dependable sources of revenue or a successful history of raising revenue sufficient to meet cash requirements.


(2) Expertise will be analyzed by the Agency based on the applicant staff's training and experience in activities similar to those proposed in the application and, if consultants will be used, on the staff's experience in choosing and supervising consultants.




(c) *Universal identifier and system for awards management.* Unless exempt under 2 CFR 25.110, the Applicant must:


(1) Be registered in the System for Awards Management (SAM) prior to submitting an application;


(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application under consideration by the Agency; and


(3) Provide its Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) in each application it submits to the Agency. The UEI is included on the Standard Form (SF) 424, “Application for Federal Assistance.”




(d) *Delinquent debt.* The applicant must not have any delinquent debt to the Federal Government. If an applicant has any delinquent debt to the Federal Government, the applicant will be ineligible to receive any funds obligated under this subpart until the debt has been paid.


(e) *Legal authority and responsibility.* Each Applicant must have the legal authority necessary to apply for and carry out the purpose of the grant.



---

[N] [80 FR 15667, Mar. 25, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 34959, May 1, 2024]








