# ยง 5.567   Order.

(a) The Administrative Law Judge enters an order which recites the disposition of the case. When the finding is *not proved,* the Administrative Law Judge issues an order *dismissing* the proceeding with or without prejudice to refile. When the finding is *proved,* the Administrative Law Judge may order an *admonition, suspension* with or without probation, or *revocation.*

(b) The order is directed against all credentials or endorsements, except that in cases of negligence or professional incompetence, the order is made applicable to specific credentials or endorsements. If the Administrative Law Judge determines that the respondent is professionally incompetent in the grade of the license, certificate or document held, but is considered competent in a lower grade, the credential or endorsement may be revoked and the issuance of one of a lower grade ordered.


(c) An order must specify whether the credential or endorsement affected is:


(1) Revoked;


(2) Suspended outright for a specified period after surrender;


(3) Suspended for a specified period, but placed on probation for a specific period; or


(4) Suspended outright for a specified period, followed by a specified period of suspension on probation.


(d) The order will normally state, *that the credential or endorsement is to be surrendered to the Coast Guard immediately,* if the order is one of revocation or includes a period of outright suspension. In cases involving special circumstances, the order may provide for surrender on a certain date.


(e) The time of any period of outright suspension ordered does not commence until the credential or endorsement is surrendered to the Coast Guard. The time of any period of suspension on probation begins at the end of any period of outright suspension or the effective date of the order if there is no outright suspension.



---

[N] [CGD 82-002, 50 FR 32184, Aug. 9, 1985, as amended by USCG-1998-3472, 64 FR 28075, May 24, 1999; USCG-2006-24371, 74 FR 11215, Mar. 16, 2009]




