# ยง 75.562   Indirect cost rates for educational training projects; exceptions.

(a) Educational training grants provide funds for training or other educational services. Examples of the work supported by training grants are summer institutes, training programs for selected participants, the introduction of new or expanded courses, and similar instructional undertakings that are separately budgeted and accounted for by the sponsoring institution. These grants do not usually support activities involving research, development, and dissemination of new educational materials and methods. Training grants largely implement previously developed materials and methods and require no significant adaptation of techniques or instructional services to fit different circumstances.


(b) The Secretary uses the definition in paragraph (a) of this section to determine which grants are educational training grants.


(c)(1) Indirect cost reimbursement on a training grant is limited to the lesser of the recipient's approved indirect cost rate, or 8 percent of the modified total direct cost (MTDC) base. MTDC is defined in 2 CFR 200.1.


(2) If the grantee does not have a federally recognized indirect cost rate agreement on the date on which the training grant is awarded, the grantee may elect to use the temporary indirect cost rate authorized under ยง 75.560(d)(3) or a rate of 8 percent of the MTDC base. The *de minimis* rate may not be used on educational training programs.


(i) If the grantee has established a threshold for equipment that is lower than the amount specified in the Uniform Guidance, the grantee must use that threshold to exclude equipment from the MTDC base.


(ii) For purposes of the MTDC base and application of the 8 percent rate, MTDC includes up to the amount specified in the definition of MTDC in the Uniform Guidance of each subaward, each year.


(3) The 8 percent indirect cost rate reimbursement limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section also applies when subrecipients issue subawards that fund training, as determined by the Secretary under paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) The 8 percent limit does not apply to agencies of Indian Tribal governments, local governments, and States as defined in 2 CFR 200.1.


(5) Indirect costs in excess of the 8 percent limit may not be charged directly, used to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements, or charged to another Federal award.


(d) A grantee using the training rate of 8 percent is required to maintain documentation to justify the 8 percent rate.



---

[N] [89 FR 70330, Aug. 29, 2024]














