# § 12.4   Election of Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR).

(a) *Elections filed before February 1, 1972.* No election or tax return shall be filed which does not conform to section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 (Pub. L. 92-178, 85 Stat. 508). If a taxpayer has before February 1, 1972 filed an election and a tax return in accordance with § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter (relating to depreciation allowances using the Asset Depreciation Range System published in the _Federal Register_ for June 23, 1971), such election will be treated as an election under the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) as contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the proposed amendments to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter published in the _Federal Register_ for January 27, 1972, provided that the election conforms with the provisions of the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) contained in section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the amendments to the regulations as finally adopted. Such an election and the determination of tax liability on the tax return are subject to the terms and conditions of section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). (For revocation of an election, see paragraph (c) of this section.) An election and tax return filed before February 1, 1972, which does not conform with the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) is an invalid election unless corrected by an amended tax return and election filed no later than the time permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. If a valid election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter is not filed for a taxable year, the taxpayer is required to file or amend his tax return and determine tax liability for the taxable year without regard to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter.


(b) *Elections filed after January 31, 1972.* No election or tax return shall be filed which does not conform with section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971. An election and tax return filed under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter after January 31, 1972, and before the final amendments to the regulations are published in the _Federal Register,_ should be filed in accordance with section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the proposed amendments to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter relating to the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). Such election and the determination of tax liability on the tax return are subject to the terms and conditions of section 109 of the Revenue Act of 1971 and the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR). An election and tax return filed after January 31, 1972, which does not conform with the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR), is not a valid election unless corrected by an amended tax return and election filed no later than the time permitted by paragraph (c) of this section. (For revocation of election, see paragraph (c) of this section.) If a valid election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter is not filed for a taxable year the taxpayer is required to file or amend his tax return and determine tax liability for the taxable year without regard to § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter.


(c) *Special rule for election and revocation.* Notwithstanding the rules of § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter, a taxpayer is permitted to make, amend or revoke an election under § 1.167(a)-11 of this chapter at any time before the latest of (1) the time the taxpayer files his first return for the taxable year of election, (2) 120 days after the final regulations prescribing the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) are published in the _Federal Register,_ or (3) the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for the taxable year of election. The notification of amendment or revocation of an election shall be made by filing an amended tax return with the Internal Revenue Service Center with which the election was filed. The election should be filed in the manner specified in the Class Life Asset Depreciation Range System (ADR) regulations as finally prescribed.


(d) *Examples.* The principles of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7159, 37 FR 1469, Jan. 29, 1972]




