# § 54.705   Committees of the Administrator's Board of Directors.

(a) *Schools and Libraries Committee*—(1) *Committee functions.* The Schools and Libraries Committee shall oversee the administration of the schools and libraries support mechanism by the Schools and Libraries Division. The Schools and Libraries Committee shall have the authority to make decisions concerning:


(i) How the Administrator projects demand for the schools and libraries support mechanism;


(ii) Development of applications and associated instructions as needed for the schools and libraries support mechanism;


(iii) Administration of the application process, including activities to ensure compliance with Federal Communications Commission rules and regulations;


(iv) Performance of outreach and education functions;


(v) Review of bills for services that are submitted by schools and libraries;


(vi)-(viii) [Reserved]


(ix) The classification of schools and libraries as urban or rural and the use of the discount matrix established in § 54.505(c) of this chapter to set the discount rate to be applied to services purchased by eligible schools and libraries;


(x) Performance of audits of beneficiaries under the schools and libraries support mechanism; and


(xi) Development and implementation of other functions unique to the schools and libraries support mechanism.


(2) *Committee composition.* The Schools and Libraries Committee shall consist of the following members of the Administrator's Board of Directors:


(i) Three school representatives;


(ii) One library representative;


(iii) One service provider representative;


(iv) One Tribal community representative;


(v) One at-large representative elected by the Administrator's Board of Directors; and


(vi) The Administrator's Chief Executive Officer.


(b) *Rural Health Care Committee*—(1) *Committee functions.* The Rural Health Care Committee shall oversee the administration of the rural health care support mechanism by the Rural Health Care Division. The Rural Health Care Committee shall have authority to make decisions concerning:


(i) How the Administrator projects demand for the rural health care support mechanism;


(ii) Development of applications and associated instructions as needed for the rural health care support mechanism;


(iii) Administration of the application process, including activities to ensure compliance with Federal Communications Commission rules and regulations;


(iv) Calculation of support levels under § 54.609;


(v) Performance of outreach and education functions;


(vi) Review of bills for services that are submitted by rural health care providers;


(vii) Monitoring demand for the purpose of determining when the $400 million cap has been reached;


(viii) Performance of audits of beneficiaries under the rural health care support mechanism; and


(ix) Development and implementation of other functions unique to the rural health care support mechanism.


(2) *Committee composition.* The Rural Health Care Committee shall consist of the following members of the Administrator's Board of Directors:


(i) Two rural health care representatives;


(ii) One service provider representative;


(iii) Two at-large representatives elected by the Administrator's Board of Directors;


(iv) One State telecommunications regulator, one state consumer advocate; and


(v) The Administrator's Chief Executive Officer.


(c) *High Cost and Low Income Committee*—(1) *Committee functions.* The High Cost and Low Income Committee shall oversee the administration of the high cost and low income support mechanisms described in subparts J, K, M, O, and E of this part. The High Cost and Low Income Committee shall have the authority to make decisions concerning:


(i) How the Administrator projects demand for the high cost and low income support mechanisms;


(ii) Development of applications and associated instructions as needed for the high cost and low income, support mechanisms;


(iii) Administration of the application process, including activities to ensure compliance with Federal Communications Commission rules and regulations;


(iv) Performance of audits of beneficiaries under the high cost and low income support mechanisms; and


(v) Development and implementation of other functions unique to the high cost and low income support mechanisms.


(2) [Reserved]






(d) *Binding Authority of Committees of the Board.* (1) Any action taken by the Committees of the Board established in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be binding on the Board of Directors of the Administrator, unless such action is presented for review to the Board by the Administrator's Chief Executive Officer and the Board disapproves of such action by a two-thirds vote of a quorum of directors, as defined in the Administrator's by-laws.


(2) The budgets prepared by each Committee shall be subject to Board review as part of the Administrator's combined budget. The Board shall not modify the budgets prepared by the Committees of the Board unless such modification is approved by a two-thirds vote of a quorum of the Board, as defined in the Administrator's by-laws.



---

[N] [63 FR 70574, Dec. 21, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 38690, June 21, 2000; 65 FR 57739, Sept. 26, 2000; 66 FR 59728, Nov. 30, 2001; 79 FR 49204, Aug. 19, 2014; 88 FR 55410, Aug. 15, 2023; 89 FR 25162, Apr. 10, 2024]




