# 852.211-76   Liquidated Damages—Reimbursement for Data Breach Costs.

As prescribed in 811.503-70, insert the following clause:


*Alternate I* (FEB 2023). In commercial products or commercial services acquisitions awarded under the procedures of FAR part 8 or 12, substitute this paragraph (e) in lieu of paragraph (e) in the basic clause:


(e) *Relationship to termination clause, if applicable.* If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part under the Termination for cause paragraph, FAR 52.212-4(m), Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, the Contractor is liable for damages accruing until the Government reasonably obtains delivery or performance of similar supplies or services. These damages are in addition to costs of repurchase as may be required under the Termination clause.


*Alternate II* (FEB 2023). In simplified acquisitions exceeding the micro-purchase threshold that are for other than commercial products or commercial services awarded under the procedures of FAR part 13 (*see* FAR 13.302-5(d)(1) and the clause at FAR 52.213-4), substitute this paragraph (e) in lieu of paragraph (e) in the basic clause:


(e) *Relationship to termination clause, if applicable.* If the Government terminates this contract in whole or in part under the Termination for cause paragraph, FAR 52.213-4(g), Terms and Conditions—Simplified Acquisitions (Other Than Commercial Products and Commercial Services), or any other applicable FAR or VAAR clause, the Contractor is liable for damages accruing until the Government reasonably obtains delivery or performance of similar supplies or services. These damages are in addition to costs of repurchase as may be required under the Termination clause.



---

[N] [88 FR 4752, Jan. 25, 2023]






