# § 362.303   Filling positions.

(a) *Announcement*—(1) *Public notification requirement.* An agency must adhere to merit system principles and thus must provide public notification in a manner designed to recruit qualified individuals from appropriate sources in an endeavor to draw from all segments of society. For the purposes of this paragraph (a), *agency* means an Executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 and the Government Publishing Office. An Executive department may treat each of its bureaus or components (*i.e.,* the first major subdivision that is separately organized and clearly distinguished from other bureaus or components in work function and operation) as a separate agency or as part of one agency but must do so consistent with its Delegated Examining Agreement.


(2) *Meeting the public notification requirement.* An agency may use any of the following options for meeting the public notification requirement:


(i) Posting a searchable announcement on *www.USAJOBS.gov;* or


(ii) Posting job information with a link to a USAJOBS custom job announcement on the agency's public facing career or job information web page. This custom posting must provide applicants with information about how to apply or seek additional information about the position(s) being filled, while also providing information regarding that job announcement to OPM.


(iii) The agency may also consider whether additional recruitment and advertisement activities to supplement paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, such as posting on third-party websites, are necessary or appropriate to further support merit system principles.


(3) *Contents of announcements.* Announcements used to meet the public notification requirement must include:


(i) *Position information.* Position title, series, and grade;


(ii) *Position location.* Geographic location where the position will be filled;


(iii) *Salary information.* The starting salary of the position;


(iv) *Qualifications information.* The minimum qualifications of the position;


(v) *Promotion potential.* Whether the individual in the position will be eligible for promotion to higher grade levels;


(vi) *Conversion information.* The potential for conversion to the agency's permanent workforce;


(vii) *How to apply.* A public source (e.g., a link to the location on the agency's website with information on how to apply) for interested individuals to seek further information about how to apply for Recent Graduate opportunities; and


(viii) *Equal employment information.* Equal employment opportunity statement (agencies may use the recommended equal employment opportunity statement located on OPM's USAJOBS website);


(ix) *Reasonable accommodation information.* Reasonable accommodation statement;


(x) *Other relevant information.* Any other relevant information about the position such as telework opportunities, recruitment incentives, etc.; and


(xi) *Other requirements.* Any other information OPM considers appropriate.


(4) *Other Information.* OPM will publish information on Pathways Recent Graduate opportunities in such form as the Director may determine.


(b) *Appointments.* (1) An agency may make appointments to the Recent Graduates Program pursuant to its Pathways Policy under Schedule D of the excepted service in accordance with part 302 of this chapter.


(2) An agency must appoint a Recent Graduate using the excepted service appointing authority provided by § 213.3402(b) of this chapter.


(3)(i) An agency may make an initial appointment of a Recent Graduate to any position filled under the authority in this section for which the Recent Graduate qualifies, up to the GS-11 level (or equivalent under another pay and classification system, such as the Federal Wage System), except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section.


(ii) Initial appointments to positions for science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM) occupations may be made at the GS-11 level, if the candidate possesses a Ph.D. or equivalent degree directly related to the STEM position the agency is seeking to fill.


(iii) Initial appointments to scientific and professional research positions at the GS-11 level for which the classification and qualification criteria for research positions apply, if the candidate possesses a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree directly related to the position the agency is seeking to fill.


(iv) Initial appointments to scientific and professional research positions at the GS-12 level for which the classification and qualification criteria for research positions apply, if the candidate possesses a Ph.D. or equivalent degree directly related to the position the agency is seeking to fill.


(v) Positions must have progressively more responsible duties that provide career advancement opportunities (*i.e.,* positions must provide for career ladder advancement).


(c) *Extensions.* An agency may extend the Program period for up to an additional 120 days to cover rare or unusual circumstances or situations. The agency's Pathways MOU must identify criteria for approving extensions.


(d) *Qualifications.* An agency must evaluate candidates using OPM Qualification Standards for the occupation and grade level of the position being filled.


(e) *Promotions.* An agency may promote any Recent Graduate who meets the qualification requirements for the position. This provision does not confer entitlement to promotion.


(f) *Trial period.* The duration of the Recent Graduates appointment in the excepted service is a trial period.



---

[N] [77 FR 28215, May 11, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 25773, Apr. 12, 2024]








