# § 1.831   Requirements for patent applications filed on or after July 1, 2022, having nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence disclosures.

(a) Patent applications disclosing a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence(s) by enumeration of its residues, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, must contain, as a separate part of the disclosure, a computer readable Sequence Listing in XML format (a “Sequence Listing XML”). Disclosed nucleotide or amino acid sequences that do not meet the definition in paragraph (b) of this section must not be included in the “Sequence Listing XML.” The “Sequence Listing XML” contains the information of the nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence(s) disclosed in the patent application using the symbols and format in accordance with the requirements of §§ 1.832 through 1.834.


(b) Nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences, as used in this section and §§ 1.832 through 1.835, encompass:


(1) An unbranched sequence or linear region of a branched sequence containing 4 or more specifically defined amino acids, wherein the amino acids form a single peptide backbone; or


(2) An unbranched sequence or linear region of a branched sequence of 10 or more specifically defined nucleotides, wherein adjacent nucleotides are joined by:


(i) A 3′ to 5′ (or 5′ to 3′) phosphodiester linkage; or


(ii) Any chemical bond that results in an arrangement of adjacent nucleobases that mimics the arrangement of nucleobases in naturally occurring nucleic acids (*i.e.,* nucleotide analogs).


(c) Where the description or claims of a patent application discuss a sequence that is set forth in the “Sequence Listing XML” in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, reference must be made to the sequence by use of the sequence identifier, preceded by “SEQ ID NO:” or the like in the text of the description or claims, even if the sequence is also embedded in the text of the description or claims of the patent application. Where a sequence is presented in a drawing, reference must be made to the sequence by use of the sequence identifier (§ 1.832(a)), either in the drawing or in the Brief Description of the Drawings, where the correlation between multiple sequences in the drawing and their sequence identifiers (§ 1.832(a)) in the Brief Description is clear.


(d) “Enumeration of its residues” means disclosure of a nucleotide or amino acid sequence in a patent application by listing, in order, each residue of the sequence, where the residues are represented in the manner as defined in paragraph 3(c)(i) or (ii) of WIPO Standard ST.26 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 1.839).


(e) “Specifically defined” means any amino acid or nucleotide as defined in paragraph 3(k) of WIPO Standard ST.26.


(f) “Amino acid” includes any D- or L-amino acid or modified amino acid as defined in paragraph 3(a) of WIPO Standard ST.26.


(g) “Modified amino acid” includes any amino acid as described in paragraph 3(e) of WIPO Standard ST.26.


(h) “Nucleotide” includes any nucleotide, nucleotide analog, or modified nucleotide as defined in paragraphs 3(f) and 3(g) of WIPO Standard ST.26.


(i) “Modified nucleotide” includes any nucleotide as described in paragraph 3(f) of WIPO Standard ST.26.


(j) A “Sequence listing XML” must not include any sequences having fewer than 10 specifically defined nucleotides, or fewer than 4 specifically defined amino acids.



---

[N] [87 FR 30818, May 20, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 34091, May 26, 2023]




