# § 1.45-6   Increased credit amount.

(a) *In general.* If a qualified facility (as defined in section 45) satisfies the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, the amount of the renewable electricity production credit determined under section 45(a) (after the application of section 45(b)(1) through (5)) is equal to the credit determined under section 45(a) multiplied by five.


(b) *Qualified facility requirements.* A qualified facility satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (b) if it is one of the following—


(1) A facility with a maximum net output (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section) of less than one megawatt (as measured in alternating current);


(2) A facility the construction of which began prior to January 29, 2023; or


(3) A facility that meets the prevailing wage requirements of section 45(b)(7) and § 1.45-7, the apprenticeship requirements of section 45(b)(8) and § 1.45-8, and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 1.45-12.


(c) *Definition of nameplate capacity for purposes of determining maximum net output under section 45(b)(6)(B)(i).* For purposes of determining whether a facility has a maximum net output of less than one megawatt (as measured in alternating current) for purposes of section 45(b)(6)(B)(i), nameplate capacity is determinative. *Nameplate capacity* for an electrical generating unit means the maximum electrical generating output in megawatts that the unit is capable of producing on a steady state basis and during continuous operation under standard conditions, as measured by the manufacturer and consistent with the definition provided in 40 CFR 96.202. If applicable, the International Standard Organization (ISO) conditions are used to measure the maximum electrical generating output or usable energy capacity.


(d) *Applicability date.* This section applies to qualified facilities placed in service in taxable years ending after June 25, 2024, and the construction of which begins after June 25, 2024. Taxpayers may apply this section to qualified facilities placed in service in taxable years ending on or before June 25, 2024, and qualified facilities placed in service in taxable years ending after June 25, 2024, the construction of which begins before June 25, 2024, provided that taxpayers follow this section in its entirety and in a consistent manner.






