# § 890.5290   Shortwave diathermy.

(a) *Shortwave diathermy for use in applying therapeutic deep heat for selected medical conditions*—(1) *Identification.* A shortwave diathermy for use in applying therapeutic deep heat for selected medical conditions is a device that applies to specific areas of the body electromagnetic energy in the radiofrequency (RF) bands of 13.56 megahertz (MHz) or 27.12 MHz and that is intended to generate deep heat within body tissues for the treatment of selected medical conditions such as relief of pain, muscle spasms, and joint contractures, but not for the treatment of malignancies.


(2) *Classification.* Class II (performance standards).


(b) *Nonthermal shortwave therapy*—(1) *Identification.* A nonthermal shortwave therapy is a prescription device that applies to the body pulsed electromagnetic energy in the RF bands of 13.56 MHz or 27.12 MHz and that is intended for adjunctive use in the palliative treatment of postoperative pain and edema of soft tissue by means other than the generation of deep heat within body tissues as described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Classification: Class II (special controls).* The device is classified as class II. The special controls for this device are:


(i) Components of the device that come into human contact must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(ii) Appropriate analysis/testing must demonstrate that the device is electrically safe and electromagnetically compatible in its intended use environment.


(iii) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use. Non-clinical performance testing must characterize the output waveform of the device and demonstrate that the device meets appropriate output performance specifications. The output characteristics and the methods used to determine these characteristics, including the following, must be determined:


(A) Peak output power;


(B) Pulse width;


(C) Pulse frequency;


(D) Duty cycle;


(E) Characteristics of other types of modulation that may be used;


(F) Average measured output powered into the RF antenna/applicator;


(G) Specific absorption rates in saline gel test load or other appropriate model;


(H) Characterization of the electrical and magnetic fields in saline gel test load or other appropriate model for each RF antenna and prescribed RF antenna orientation/position; and


(I) Characterization of the deposited energy density in saline gel test load or other appropriate model.


(iv) A detailed summary of the clinical testing pertinent to use of the device to demonstrate the effectiveness of the device in its intended use.


(v) Labeling must include the following:


(A) Output characteristics of the device;


(B) Recommended treatment regimes, including duration of use; and


(C) A detailed summary of the clinical testing pertinent to the use of the device and a summary of the adverse events and complications.


(vi) Nonthermal shortwave therapy devices marketed prior to the effective date of this reclassification must submit an amendment to their previously cleared premarket notification (510(k)) demonstrating compliance with these special controls.



---

[N] [48 FR 53047, Nov. 23, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 17742, May 11, 1987; 80 FR 61302, Oct. 13, 2015]




