# § 319.77-1   Definitions.

*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Canadian infested area.* Any area of Canada listed as a gypsy moth infested area in § 319.77-3 of this subpart.


*Canadian noninfested area.* Any area of Canada that is not listed as a gypsy moth infested area in § 319.77-3 of this subpart.


*Certification of origin.* A signed, accurate statement certifying the area in which a regulated article was produced or grown. The statement may be provided directly on the shipping documents accompanying shipments of commercial wood products from Canada, or may be provided on a separate certificate. 


*Gypsy moth.* The insect known as the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar (Linnaeus), in any stage of development.


*Import (imported, importation).* To bring or move into the territorial limits of the United States.


*Mobile home.* Any vehicle, other than a recreational vehicle, designed to serve, when parked, as a dwelling or place of business.


*Outdoor household articles.* Articles associated with a household that are generally kept or used outside the home. Examples of outdoor household articles are awnings, barbeque grills, bicycles, boats, dog houses, firewood, garden tools, hauling trailers, outdoor furniture and toys, recreational vehicles and their associated equipment, and tents.


*Phytosanitary certificate.* A document issued by an official authorized by the national government of Canada that contains a description of the regulated article intended for importation into the United States and that certifies that the article has been thoroughly inspected or treated, is believed to be free from plant pests, and is otherwise believed to be eligible for importation pursuant to the current phytosanitary laws and regulations of the United States. A phytosanitary certificate must be addressed to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and may be issued no more than 14 days prior to the shipment of the regulated article.


*Recreational vehicles.* Vehicles, including pickup truck campers, one-piece motor homes, and travel trailers, designed to serve as temporary places of dwelling.


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States.


*U.S. infested area.* Any area of the United States listed as a gypsy moth generally infested area in § 301.45-3 of this chapter.


*U.S. noninfested area.* Any area of the United States that is not listed as a gypsy moth generally infested area in § 301.45-3 of this chapter.



---

[N] [64 FR 45866, Aug. 23, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 38175, June 20, 2000]




