# § 147.2906   Emergency permits.

(a) An emergency permit may be issued if:


(1) There will be an imminent health hazard unless an emergency permit is issued; or


(2) There will be a substantial and irretrievable loss of oil and gas resources, timely application for a permit could not practicably have been made, and injection will not result in movement of fluid into an USDW; or


(3) There will be a substantial delay in oil or gas production, and injection will not result in movement of fluid into an USDW.


(b) *Requirements*—(1) *Permit duration.* (i) Emergency permits issued to avoid an imminent health threat may last no longer than the time necessary to prevent the hazard.


(ii) Emergency permits issued to prevent a substantial and irretrievable loss of oil or gas resources shall be for no longer than 90 days, unless a complete permit application has been submitted during that time; in which case the emergency permit may be extended until a final decision on the permit application has been made.


(iii) Emergency permits to avoid a substantial delay in oil or gas production shall be issued only after a complete permit application has been submitted and shall be effective until a final decision on the permit application is made.


(2) Notice of the emergency permit will be given by the Regional Administrator according to the notice procedure for a draft permit within 10 days after issuance.


(3) An emergency permit may be oral or written. If oral, a written emergency permit must be issued within five calendar days.




