# ยง 105.25   Reviewing public documents.

PHMSA is required by statute to make certain documents and information available to the public. You can review and copy publicly available documents and information at the locations described in this section.


(a) *DOT Docket Management System.* Unless a particular document says otherwise, the following documents are available for public review and copying at the Department of Transportation's Docket Management System, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001, or for review and downloading through the Internet at *http://www.regulations.gov.*

(1) Rulemaking documents in proceedings started after February 1, 1997, including notices of proposed rulemaking, advance notices of proposed rulemaking, public comments, related _Federal Register_ notices, final rules, appeals, and PHMSA's decisions in response to appeals.


(2) Applications for special permits numbered DOT-E or DOT-SP 11832 and above. Also available are supporting data, memoranda of any informal meetings with applicants, related _Federal Register_ notices, public comments, and decisions granting or denying applications for special permits.


(3) Applications for preemption determinations and waiver of preemption determinations received by PHMSA after February 1, 1997. Also available are public comments, _Federal Register_ notices, and PHMSA's rulings, determinations, decisions on reconsideration, and orders issued in response to those applications.


(b) *Office of Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration's Office of Hazardous Materials Safety.* (1) You may obtain documents (*e.g.*, proposed and final rules, notices, letters of clarification, safety notices, DOT forms and other documents) by contacting the Hazardous Materials Information Center at 1-800-467-4922 or through the Internet at *http://www.phmsa.dot.gov.*

(2) Upon your written request, we will make the following documents and information available to you:


(i) Appeals under 49 CFR part 107 and PHMSA's decisions issued in response to those appeals.


(ii) Records of compliance order proceedings and PHMSA compliance orders.


(iii) Applications for approvals, including supporting data, memoranda of any informal meetings with applicants, and decisions granting or denying approvals applications.


(iv) Applications for special permits numbered below DOT-E or DOT-SP 11832 and related background information are available for public review and copying at the Office of Hazardous Materials Safety, Approvals and Permits Division, U.S. Department of Transportation, PHH-30, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(v) Other information about PHMSA's hazardous materials program required by statute to be made available to the public for review and copying and any other information PHMSA decides should be available to the public.


(3) Your written request to review documents should include the following:


(i) A detailed description of the documents you wish to review.


(ii) Your name, address, and telephone number.


(4) Send your written request to: Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Attn: PHH-1, U.S. Department of Transportation, East Building, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.



---

[N] [70 FR 56088, Sept. 23, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 73159, Dec. 9, 2005; 72 FR 55682, Oct. 1, 2007; 76 FR 56310, Sept. 13, 2011]




