# ยง 550.244   What geological and geophysical (G&G) information must accompany the DPP or DOCD?

The following G&G information must accompany your DPP or DOCD:


(a) *Geological description.* A geological description of the prospect(s).


(b) *Structure contour maps.* Current structure contour maps (depth-based, expressed in feet subsea) showing depths of expected productive formations and the locations of proposed wells.


(c) *Two dimensional (2-D) or three-dimensional (3-D) seismic lines.* Copies of migrated and annotated 2-D or 3-D seismic lines (with depth scale) intersecting at or near your proposed well locations. You are not required to conduct both 2-D and 3-D seismic surveys if you choose to conduct only one type of survey. If you have conducted both types of surveys, the Regional Supervisor may instruct you to submit the results of both surveys. You must interpret and display this information. Provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your DPP or DOCD.


(d) *Geological cross-sections.* Interpreted geological cross-sections showing the depths of expected productive formations.


(e) *Shallow hazards report.* A shallow hazards report based on information obtained from a high-resolution geophysical survey, or a reference to such report if you have already submitted it to the Regional Supervisor.


(f) *Shallow hazards assessment.* For each proposed well, an assessment of any seafloor and subsurface geologic and manmade features and conditions that may adversely affect your proposed drilling operations.


(g) *High resolution seismic lines.* A copy of the high-resolution survey line closest to each of your proposed well locations. Because of its volume, provide this information as an enclosure to only one proprietary copy of your DPP or DOCD. You are not required to provide this information if the surface location of your proposed well has been approved in a previously submitted EP, DPP, or DOCD.


(h) *Stratigraphic column.* A generalized biostratigraphic/lithostratigraphic column from the surface to the total depth of each proposed well.


(i) *Time-versus-depth chart.* A seismic travel time-versus-depth chart based on the appropriate velocity analysis in the area of interpretation and specifying the geodetic datum.


(j) *Geochemical information.* A copy of any geochemical reports you used or generated.


(k) *Future G&G activities.* A brief description of the G&G explorations and development G&G activities that you may conduct for lease or unit purposes after your DPP or DOCD is approved.




