# § 761.386   Required experimental conditions for the validation study and subsequent use during decontamination.

The following experimental conditions apply for any solvent:


(a) *Temperature and pressure.* Conduct the validation study and perform decontamination at room temperature (from ≥15 °C to ≤30 °C) and at atmospheric pressure.


(b) *Agitation.* Limit the movement in the solvent to the short-term movement from placing the contaminated surface into the soak solvent and from removing the surface from the soak solvent.


(c) *Time of soak.* Soak the surface for a minimum of 1 hour.


(d) *Surface conditions for the validation study.* Prior to beginning the validation study, ensure that there are no free-flowing liquids on surfaces and that surfaces are dry (i.e., there are no liquids visible without magnification). Also ensure that surfaces are virtually free from non-liquid residues, corrosion, and other defects which would prevent the solvent from freely circulating over the surface.


(e) *Confirmatory sampling for the validation study.* Select surface sample locations using representative sampling or a census. Sample a minimum area of 100 cm
2 on each individual surface in the validation study. Measure surface concentrations using the standard wipe test, as defined in § 761.123, from which a standard wipe sample is generated for chemical analysis. Guidance for wipe sampling appears in the document entitled “Wipe Sampling and Double Wash/Rinse Cleanup as Recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency PCB Spill Cleanup Policy,” available on EPA's website at *https://www.epa.gov/pcbs,* or from the Program Implementation and Information Division, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery (5303T), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001.


(f) *Concentration of PCBs.* The method validated may be used only to decontaminate surfaces containing PCBs at concentrations on which the validation study was performed and lower concentrations.



---

[N] [63 FR 35473, June 29, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 57241, Oct. 9, 2007; 74 FR 30235, June 25, 2009; 88 FR 59695, Aug. 29, 2023]




