# ยง 30.7   Definitions.

(a) *Funds appropriated for FY 1988 by this resolution or any other law,* as used in this part with reference to section 109(a) of the Continuing Resolution, means all appropriated and trust funds available to DOT, its modal administration, or their grantees for expenditure or obligation in fiscal year 1988, regardless of the fiscal year in which the funds were appropriated.


(b) *Funds made available by this Act,* as used in this part with reference to section 115(a) of the Airport Safety Act, means all funds, including trust funds, made available to DOT, its modal administrations, or their grantees by that Act, whether or not the contracts to be funded are awarded during fiscal year 1988.


(c) *Contractor and subcontractor* means any person, other than a supplier of products, performing any architectural, engineering, or other service directly related to the preparation for or performance of the construction, alteration, or repair of any public building or public work in the United States or any territory or possession of the United States.


(d) *Contractor or subcontractor of a foreign country* means any contractor or subcontractor that is a citizen or national of a foreign country, or is controlled directly or indirectly by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country.


(e) *Service of a foreign country* means any service provided by a person that is a citizen or national of a foreign country, or is controlled by one or more citizens or nationals of a foreign country.


(f) *Product of a foreign country* means construction materials, i.e., articles, materials, and supplies brought to the construction site for incorporation into the public works project. A product is considered to have been produced in a foreign country if more than fifty percent of the total cost of the product is allocable to production or manufacture in the foreign country.


(g) *Foreign country* means a country included in the list of countries that discriminate against U.S. firms published by the U.S.T.R.




