# § 59.412   Incorporations by reference.

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the paragraphs noted in § 59.401. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any changes in these materials will be published in the _Federal Register._ The materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, and all are available for inspection at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, U.S. EPA, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460; at the EPA Library (MD-35), U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) The materials listed below are available for purchase at the following address: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.


(1) ASTM Method C 1315-95, Standard Specification for Liquid Membrane-Forming Compounds Having Special Properties for Curing and Sealing Concrete, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Concrete curing and sealing compound.*

(2) ASTM Method D 523-89, Standard Test Method for Specular Gloss, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Flat coating* and *Nonflat coating.*

(3) ASTM Method D 1640-83 (Reapproved 1989), Standard Test Methods for Drying, Curing, or Film Formation of Organic Coatings at Room Temperature, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Quick-dry enamel* and *Quick-dry primer, sealer, and undercoater.*

(4) ASTM Method D 3912-80 (Reapproved 1989), Standard Test Method for Chemical Resistance of Coatings Used in Light-Water Nuclear Power Plants, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Nuclear coating.*

(5) ASTM Method D 4082-89, Standard Test Method for Effects of Gamma Radiation on Coatings for Use in Light-Water Nuclear Power Plants, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Nuclear coating.*

(c) The following material is available from the AAMA, 1827 Walden Office Square, Suite 104, Schaumburg, IL 60173.


(1) AAMA 605-98, Voluntary Specification Requirements and Test Procedures for High Performance Organic Coatings on Aluminum Extrusions and Panels, incorporation by reference approved for § 59.401, *Extreme high durability coating.*

(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 48877, Sept. 11, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




