# ยง 40.67   Requirement for advance notice for importation of natural uranium from countries that are not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material.

(a) Each licensee authorized to import natural uranium, other than in the form of ore or ore residue, in amounts exceeding 500 kilograms, from countries not party to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (see appendix F to part 73 of this chapter) shall notify the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to *AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov* or using an appropriate method listed in ยง 40.5. The notification must be in writing and must be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipping facility.










(b) The notification must include the following information:


(1) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s);


(2) A physical description of the shipment;


(3) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used;


(4) The estimated date and time that shipment will commence and that each nation along the route is scheduled to be entered.


(c) The licensee shall notify the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by telephone at the numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter when the shipment is received in the receiving facility.


(d) A licensee who needs to amend a notification shall notify the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by telephone at the numbers specified for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.





---

[N] [52 FR 9652, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4110, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24551, May 9, 1995; 68 FR 58808, Oct. 10, 2003; 69 FR 76600, Dec. 22, 2004; 74 FR 62681, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 85 FR 65662, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 67842, Nov. 30, 2021]




