# § 1.6015-6   Nonrequesting spouse's notice and opportunity to participate in administrative proceedings.

(a) *In general.* (1) When the Internal Revenue Service receives an election under § 1.6015-2 or 1.6015-3, or a request for relief under § 1.6015-4, the Internal Revenue Service must send a notice to the nonrequesting spouse's last known address that informs the nonrequesting spouse of the requesting spouse's claim for relief. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter. The notice must provide the nonrequesting spouse with an opportunity to submit any information that should be considered in determining whether the requesting spouse should be granted relief from joint and several liability. A nonrequesting spouse is not required to submit information under this section. Upon the request of either spouse, the Internal Revenue Service will share with one spouse the information submitted by the other spouse, unless such information would impair tax administration.


(2) The Internal Revenue Service must notify the nonrequesting spouse of the Service's preliminary and final determinations with respect to the requesting spouse's claim for relief under section 6015. 


(b) *Information submitted.* The Internal Revenue Service will consider all of the information (as relevant to each particular relief provision) that the nonrequesting spouse submits in determining whether relief from joint and several liability is appropriate, including information relating to the following— 


(1) The legal status of the requesting and nonrequesting spouses' marriage; 


(2) The extent of the requesting spouse's knowledge of the erroneous items or underpayment; 


(3) The extent of the requesting spouse's knowledge or participation in the family business or financial affairs; 


(4) The requesting spouse's education level; 


(5) The extent to which the requesting spouse benefitted from the erroneous items; 


(6) Any asset transfers between the spouses; 


(7) Any indication of fraud on the part of either spouse; 


(8) Whether it would be inequitable, within the meaning of §§ 1.6015-2(d) and 1.6015-4, to hold the requesting spouse jointly and severally liable for the outstanding liability; 


(9) The allocation or ownership of items giving rise to the deficiency; and


(10) Anything else that may be relevant to the determination of whether relief from joint and several liability should be granted. 


(c) *Effect of opportunity to participate.* The failure to submit information pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section does not affect the nonrequesting spouse's ability to seek relief from joint and several liability for the same tax year. However, information that the nonrequesting spouse submits pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section is relevant in determining whether relief from joint and several liability is appropriate for the nonrequesting spouse should the nonrequesting spouse also submit an application for relief. 



---

[N] [T.D. 9003, 67 FR 47285, July 18, 2002]




