# § 1.1092(b)-1T   Coordination of loss deferral rules and wash sale rules (temporary).

(a) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided, in the case of the disposition of a position or positions of a straddle, the rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply before the application of the rules of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) Any loss sustained from the disposition of shares of stock or securities that constitute positions of a straddle shall not be taken into account for purposes of this subtitle if, within a period beginning 30 days before the date of such disposition and ending 30 days after such date, the taxpayer has acquired (by purchase or by an exchange on which the entire amount of gain or loss was recognized by law), or has entered into a contract or option so to acquire, substantially identical stock or securities.


(2) Except as otherwise provided, if a taxpayer disposes of less than all of the positions of a straddle, any loss sustained with respect to the disposition of that position or positions (hereinafter referred to as *loss position*) shall not be taken into account for purposes of this subtitle to the extent that the amount of unrecognized gain as of the close of the taxable year in one or more of the following positions—


(i) Successor positions,


(ii) Offsetting positions to the loss position, or


(iii) Offsetting positions to any successor position,


(b) *Carryover of disallowed loss.* Any loss that is disallowed under paragraph (a) of this section shall, subject to any further application of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the limitations under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, be treated as sustained in the succeeding taxable year. However, a loss disallowed in Year 1, for example, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not be allowed in Year 2 unless the substantially identical stock or securities, the acquisition of which caused the loss to be disallowed in Year 1, are disposed of during Year 2 and paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section do not apply in Year 2 to disallow the loss.


(c) *Treatment of disallowed loss*—(1) *Character.* If the disposition of a loss position would (but for the application of this section) result in a capital loss, the loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the disposition of the loss position shall be treated as a capital loss. In any other case, a loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section shall be treated as an ordinary loss. For example, if the disposition of a loss position would, but for the application of paragraph (a) of this section, give rise to a capital loss, that loss when allowed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section will be treated as a capital loss on the date the loss is allowed regardless of whether any gain or loss with respect to one or more successor positions would be treated as ordinary income or loss.


(2) *Section 1256 contracts.* If the disposition of a loss position would (but for the application of this section) result in 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss, the loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the disposition of the loss position shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss regardless of whether any gain or loss with respect to one or more successor positions would be treated as 100 percent long-term or short-term capital gain or loss.


(d) *Exceptions.* (1) This section shall not apply to losses sustained—


(i) With respect to the disposition of one or more positions that constitute part of a hedging transaction;


(ii) With respect to the disposition of a loss position included in a mixed straddle account (as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.1092(b)-4T); and


(iii) With respect to the disposition of a position that is part of a straddle consisting only of section 1256 contracts.


(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to losses sustained by a dealer in stock or securities if such losses are sustained in a transaction made in the ordinary course of such business.


(e) *Coordination with section 1091.* Section 1092(b) applies in lieu of section 1091 to losses sustained from the disposition of positions in a straddle. See example (18) of paragraph (g) of this section.


(f) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section apply to dispositions of loss positions on or after January 24, 1985.


(g) *Examples.* This section may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the following positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year and none of the exceptions contained in paragraph (d) of this section apply.



---

[N] [T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3319, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1786, Jan. 15, 1986; 51 FR 3773, Jan. 30, 1986; 51 FR 5516, Feb. 14, 1986]




