# § 32.25   Colorado.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Alamosa National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, snipe, Eurasian collared-dove, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow Eurasian collared-dove hunting only during the mourning dove season.


(ii) The only acceptable methods of take are shotguns, hand-held bows, and hawking/falconry.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, and black-tailed and white-tailed jackrabbit, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The only acceptable methods of take are shotgun, rifle firing rimfire cartridges less than .23 caliber, hand-held bow, pellet gun, slingshot, and hawking/falconry.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit launching or removing any type of watercraft from the refuge on the Rio Grande or Chicago Ditch.


(b) *Arapaho National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, coot, merganser, Canada goose, snipe, Virginia and Sora rail, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) All migratory bird hunting closes annually on December 31.


(ii) We allow access to the refuge 1 hour prior to legal shooting time.


(iii) We allow use of only portable stands and blinds that the hunter must remove following each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit hunting 200 feet (60 meters) from any public use road, designated parking area, or designated public use facility located within the hunt area.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of jackrabbit, cottontail rabbit, and sage grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) All upland game hunting closes annually on December 31.


(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of antelope and elk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) Elk hunters:


(A) Must possess a refuge-specific permit (state-issued) to hunt elk; and


(B) Must attend a scheduled pre-hunt information meeting prior to hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit fishing between June 1 and July 31 each year.


(ii) We allow fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit ice fishing on the refuge.


(iv) We close Unit C to fishing when the refuge is open to big game rifle hunting.


(v) We prohibit lead sinkers and live bait for fishing.


(c) *Baca National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of Eurasian collared-dove and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow Eurasian collared-dove hunting only during the mourning dove season.


(ii) The only acceptable methods of take are shotguns, hand-held bows, and hawking/falconry.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, and black-tailed and white-tailed jackrabbit, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Shotguns, rifles firing rimfire cartridges less than .23 caliber, hand-held bows, pellet guns, slingshots, and hawking/falconry are the only acceptable methods of take.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Browns Park National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of pronghorn antelope, moose, mule deer, and elk on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(e) *Monte Vista National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, snipe, Eurasian collared-dove, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow Eurasian collared-dove hunting only during the mourning dove season.


(ii) The only acceptable methods of take are shotguns, hand-held bows, and hawking/falconry.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit, and black-tailed and white-tailed jackrabbit, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The only acceptable methods of take are shotgun, rifle firing rimfire cartridges less than .23 caliber, hand-held bow, pellet gun, slingshot, and hawking/falconry.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(f) *Rocky Mountain Arsenal.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing on Tuesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We allow fishing from the first Saturday in April through November 30.


(iii) All anglers age 16 and older must possess a signed refuge fishing permit (signed refuge fishing brochure) when fishing.


(iv) You must stop and pay the daily fishing recreation fee for each Colorado State licensed angler age 16 or older. Payments are made at self-service fishing fee stations, and you must display a receipt of payment or an annual pass while fishing. High school and college students can fish for free with a current student identification card.


(v) We allow bank fishing only at Lake Mary and Lake Ladora.


(vi) We allow wade fishing only in Lake Ladora after Memorial Day.


(vii) Each angler may use only one rod and reel or pole and line with one hook per line, except that we allow a second rod and reel or pole and line with one hook per line with a Colorado State-issued second rod stamp.


(viii) We only allow barbless hooks.


(ix) We only allow artificial lures and flies on Lake Ladora. We allow artificial lures and flies and artificial bait, cut bait, and food products only on Lake Mary.


(x) We prohibit the use of live bait on all refuge waters.


(xi) We only allow catch-and-release fishing.


(xii) We prohibit the possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages while fishing.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54105, Aug. 31, 2020]




