# § 618.816   Trade Adjustment Assistance Program benefit information and provision of services to workers.

(a) *Providing information to workers.* State agencies must provide information to each worker who applies for UI about the benefit allowances, training, and other services available under this part, and about the application procedures, and the appropriate filing dates, for such allowances, training, and other services.


(b) *Rapid response and appropriate career services.* States must ensure that rapid response assistance and appropriate career services, as described in section 134 of WIOA, are made available to members of a group of workers for whom a petition under subpart B of this part has been filed.


(c) *Providing reemployment services.* (1) For trade-affected workers covered by a certification, States must:


(i) Make available employment and case management services described in subpart C of this part, including testing, counseling, assessment, and placement services; and


(ii) Provide referrals to, assistance in securing of, and approvals of training under subpart F of this part.


(2) If funds provided to carry out this part are insufficient to make such services available, States must arrange to make such services available through other Federal programs.


(d) *Petition filing assistance.* (1) States must facilitate the early filing of petitions for a group of workers that the State considers are likely to be eligible for TAA Program benefits.


(2) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, “likely to be eligible” means the State has a reasonable belief that a certification will be issued for the group of workers based on observations made by State staff; existence of certifications within the same industry, sector, or supply chain; or information or statements from the firm, union, workers, media coverage, or other reports.


(3) States must provide assistance to enable individuals and other entities eligible to file to prepare petitions or applications for program benefits.


(4) Petitions must be filed under paragraph (d)(1) of this section even if the firm, a union, elected officials, or members of the group of workers oppose the filing.


(e) *Providing information after issuance of a certification.* (1) States must inform the State's board on vocational and technical education (also called the eligible agency, as defined in 20 U.S.C. 2302(12)) or the equivalent agency in the State and other public or private agencies, institutions, and employers, as appropriate, of each certification issued under subpart B of this part and of projections, if available, of the needs for training under subpart F of this part as a result of such certification.


(2) Upon receipt of a certification issued under subpart B of this part by the Department, the State must provide a written notice through the mail, of the benefits available under this part to each worker known to be covered by the certification when the worker becomes partially or totally separated or as soon as possible after the certification is issued if the worker is already partially or totally separated from adversely affected employment. The State must also provide notice to all workers threatened with separation who may be AAIWs. These notices must contain the following information:


(i) The worker group(s) covered by the TAA certification and the article(s) produced or services rendered as specified in the copy of the certification furnished to the State;


(ii) The name and the address or location of workers' firm;


(iii) The impact, certification, and expiration dates in the certification document.


(iv) A summary of benefits and services available to the workers;


(v) An explanation of how, when, and where the workers may apply for TAA Program benefits and services;


(vi) The training enrollment deadlines (set forth in § 618.725) for TRA qualification;


(vii) Whom to contact to get additional information on the certification; and


(viii) A Babel notice (a short notice in multiple languages informing the reader that the communication contains vital information and explaining how to access language services to have the contents of the communication provided in other languages).


(3) In order to identify these workers, the State must obtain from the firm, or another reliable source, the names and addresses of all workers who were partially or totally separated from adversely affected employment before the agency received the certification, and of all workers who are thereafter partially or totally separated or threatened with separation within the certification period. Provision of this information may be compelled under the subpoena provisions at § 618.812.


(4) Upon receipt of a copy of a certification issued by the Department affecting workers in a State, the State must publish a notice of the certification in a newspaper of general circulation in areas in which such workers reside. The published notice must include the same information identified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section. The notice may be filed in a print version of the newspaper, or in the online or digital version of the newspaper if it can be reasonably expected to reach the interested parties.


(5) Upon receipt of a copy of a certification issued by the Department, the State must perform outreach to, intake of, and orientation for trade-affected workers covered by the certification with respect to assistance and benefits available under this part.


(6) In addition to the mailed written notice under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, States must also give notice to each worker by at least one method of modern electronic communication reasonably calculated to reach each worker. For example, States may give notice via email to a worker with a known email address, or by text to a worker with a known mobile phone number.


(7) States may also use other modern methods of communication, such as websites and social media, to reach members of certified worker groups.


(f) *Specific benefit assistance to workers.* States must:


(1) Advise each trade-affected worker, as soon as practicable after the worker is separated from adversely affected employment or, if later, after a certification is issued, or upon notice of the worker's threatened status, of the benefits and services available under this part, including the qualifying requirements, procedures, and deadlines for applying for such benefits and services.


(2) Perform an intake interview for each trade-affected worker (unless the worker declines the interview) as soon as practicable after the worker is separated from adversely affected employment, after a certification is issued, or upon notice of the worker's threatened status. The interview must be scheduled in time for the worker to meet the training enrollment deadline set forth in proposed § 618.725(a). During the interview, States must provide information about all of the benefits available under this part.




