# § 106.45   Tracking rulemaking actions.

The following identifying numbers allow you to track PHMSA's rulemaking activities:


(a) *Docket number.* We assign an identifying number, called a docket number, to each rulemaking proceeding. Each rulemaking document that PHMSA issues in a particular rulemaking proceeding will display the same docket number. This number allows you to do the following:


(1) Associate related documents that appear in the _Federal Register._

(2) Search the DOT Docket Management System (“DMS”) for information on particular rulemaking proceedings—including notices of proposed rulemaking, public comments, petitions for rulemaking, appeals, records of additional rulemaking proceedings and final rules. There are two ways you can search the DMS:


(i) Visit the public docket room and review and copy any docketed materials during regular business hours. The DOT Docket Management System is located at the U.S. Department of Transportation, West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(ii) View and download docketed materials through the Internet at *http://www.regulations.gov.*

(b) *Regulation identifier number.* The Department of Transportation publishes a semiannual agenda of all current and projected Department of Transportation rulemakings, reviews of existing regulations, and completed actions. This semiannual agenda appears in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations that is published in the _Federal Register_ in April and October of each year. The semiannual agenda tells the public about the Department's—including PHMSA's—regulatory activities. The Department assigns a regulation identifier number (RIN) to each individual rulemaking proceeding in the semiannual agenda. This number appears on all rulemaking documents published in the _Federal Register_ and makes it easy for you to track those rulemaking proceedings in both the _Federal Register_ and the semiannual regulatory agenda itself, as well as to locate all documents in the Docket Management System pertaining to a particular rulemaking.



---

[N] [70 FR 56088, Sept. 23, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 55682, Oct. 1, 2007]




