# § 107.117   Emergency processing.

(a) An application is granted emergency processing if the Associate Administrator, on the basis of the application and any inquiry undertaken, finds that:


(1) Emergency processing is necessary to prevent significant injury to persons or property (other than the hazardous material to be transported) that could not be prevented if the application were processed on a routine basis;


(2) Emergency processing is necessary for immediate national security purposes;


(3) Emergency processing is necessary to prevent significant economic loss that could not be prevented if the application were processed on a routine basis; or


(4) Emergency processing is necessary in support of an essential governmental (domestic or foreign) function that could not be satisfied if the application were processed on a routine basis.




(b) Where the significant economic loss is to the applicant, or to a party in a contractual relationship to the applicant with respect to the activity to be undertaken, the Associate Administrator may deny emergency processing if timely application could have been made.


(c) A request for emergency processing on the basis of potential economic loss must reasonably describe and estimate the potential loss.


(d) An application submitted under this section must conform to § 107.105 to the extent that the receiving Department official deems necessary to process the application. An application on an emergency basis must be submitted to the Department modal contact official for the initial mode of transportation to be utilized, as follows:


(1) *Certificate-Holding Aircraft:* The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Director, Office of Hazardous Materials Safety is responsible for the aircraft operator's hazardous materials safety program. The Director, Office of Hazardous Materials Safety, may be reached by calling the FAA Washington Operations Center at 202-267-3333 (any hour), or visiting FAA's website.


(2) *Noncertificate-Holding Aircraft (Those Which Operate Under 14 CFR part 91):* The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Regional Office that serves the place where the flight will originate. The nearest Regional Office may be located by calling the FAA Washington Operations Center at 202-267-3333 or visiting FAA's website.


(3) *Motor Vehicle Transportation:* Chief, Hazardous Materials Division, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590-0001, 202-385-2400 (day); 1-800-424-8802 (night). 


(4) *Rail Transportation:* Staff Director, Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Safety Assurance and Compliance, Federal Railroad Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590-0001, 202-493-6248 or 202-493-6244 (day); 1-800-424-8802 (night). 


(5) *Water Transportation:* Chief, Hazardous Materials Standards Division, Office of Operating and Environmental Standards, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20593-0001; 202-372-1420 (day); 1-800-424-8802 (night).


(e) Upon receipt of all information necessary to process the application, the receiving Department official transmits to the Associate Administrator, by the most rapidly available means of communication, an evaluation as to whether an emergency exists under § 107.117(a) and, if appropriate, recommendations as to the conditions to be included in the special permit. The Associate Administrator will review an application for emergency processing of a special permit in conformance with the standard operating procedures specified in appendix A of this part (“Standard Operating Procedures for Special Permits and Approvals”) to determine if it is complete and conforms with the requirements of this subpart. If the Associate Administrator determines that an emergency exists under § 107.117(a) and that, with reference to the criteria of § 107.113(f), granting of the application is in the public interest, the Associate Administrator will grant the application subject to such terms as necessary and immediately notify the applicant. If the Associate Administrator determines that an emergency does not exist or that granting of the application is not in the public interest, the applicant will be notified immediately.


(f) A determination that an emergency does not exist is not subject to reconsideration under § 107.123 of this part.


(g) Within 90 days following issuance of an emergency special permit, the Associate Administrator will publish, in the _Federal Register,_ a notice of issuance with a statement of the basis for the finding of emergency and the scope and duration of the special permit.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-38, 61 FR 21095, May 9, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 51556, Oct. 1, 1997; 64 FR 51914, Sept. 27, 1999; 65 FR 58618, Sept. 29, 2000; 66 FR 45377, Aug. 28, 2001; 67 FR 61011, Sept. 27, 2002; 70 FR 56090, Sept. 23, 2005; 75 FR 53596, Sept. 1, 2010; 76 FR 463, Jan. 5, 2011; 80 FR 54437, Sept. 10, 2015; 85 FR 83374, Dec. 21, 2020; 89 FR 15662, Mar. 4, 2024]




