# ยง 102.53   Appeal of compliance determination to the General Counsel; General Counsel's action; request for review by the Board; Board action; opposition to appeal or request for review.

(a) *Appeal of compliance determination to the General Counsel.* The Charging Party may appeal a compliance determination to the General Counsel in Washington, DC, within 14 days of the written statement of compliance determination as set forth in ยง 102.52. The appeal must contain a complete statement setting forth the facts and reasons upon which it is based and must identify with particularity the error claimed in the Regional Director's determination. The General Counsel may for good cause shown extend the time for filing an appeal.


(b) *General Counsel's action.* The General Counsel may affirm or modify the Regional Director's determination or take such other action deemed appropriate, and must state the grounds for that decision.


(c) *Request for review by Board.* Within 14 days after service of the General Counsel's decision, the Charging Party may file a request for review of that decision with the Board in Washington, DC. The request for review must contain a complete statement of the facts and reasons upon which it is based and must identify with particularity the error claimed in the General Counsel's decision. A copy of the request for review must be served simultaneously on all other parties and on the General Counsel and the Regional Director.


(d) *Board action.* The Board may affirm or modify the General Counsel's decision, or otherwise dispose of the matter as it deems appropriate. The denial of the request for review will constitute an affirmance of the General Counsel's decision.


(e) *Opposition to appeal or request for review.* Within 7 days of receipt of a compliance appeal or request for review, a party may file an opposition to the compliance appeal or request for review.




