# § 63.1591   What are my notification requirements?

(a) You must submit an initial notification that your POTW treatment plant is subject to these standards as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) If you have an existing Group 1 or Group 2 POTW treatment plant, you must submit an initial notification by October 26, 2018, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(2) If you have a new Group 1 or Group 2 POTW treatment plant, you must submit an initial notification upon startup, or when the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(b) The initial notification must include the information included in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Your name and address;


(2) The address (*i.e.,* physical location) of your POTW treatment plant;


(3) An identification of these standards as the basis of the notification and your POTW treatment plant's compliance date; and


(4) A brief description of the nature, size, design, and method of operation of your POTW treatment plant, including its operating design capacity and an identification of each point of emission for each HAP, or if a definitive identification is not yet possible, a preliminary identification of each point of emission for each HAP.


(c) You must submit a notification of compliance status as required in § 63.9(h), as specified below:


(1) If you comply with § 63.1586(b) and use covers on the emission points and route air in the headspace underneath the cover to a control device, you must submit a notification of compliance status as specified in § 63.9(h) that includes a description of the POTW treatment units and installed covers, as well as the information required for control devices including the performance test results.


(2) If you comply with § 63.1586(c) by meeting the HAP fraction emitted standard, submission of the Inspection and Monitoring Plan as required in §§ 63.1588(c) and 63.1590(f) meets the requirement for submitting a notification of compliance status report in § 63.9(h).


(d) You must notify the Administrator, within 30 calendar days of discovering that you are out of compliance with an applicable requirement of this subpart, including the following:


(1) The requirement to route the air in the headspace underneath the cover of all units equipped with covers, except primary clarifiers, to a control device as specified in § 63.1586(b).


(2) The HAP fraction emitted standard as specified in § 63.1586(c).


(3) The requirement to operate and maintain the affected source as specified in § 63.1586(d).


(4) The requirement to inspect covers annually and repair defects as specified in § 63.1588(a).


(5) The requirement to comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements of § 63.695(c) as specified in § 63.1588(b).


(6) The procedures specified in an Inspection and Monitoring Plan prepared as specified in § 63.1588(c).


(7) The requirements specified in an appropriate NESHAP for which the Group 1 POTW treatment plan treats regulated industrial waste as specified in § 63.1583(a) or (b), as applicable.



---

[N] [82 FR 49525, Oct. 26, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 73902, Nov. 19, 2020]




