# § 2429.24   Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.

(a) Except for documents that are filed electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's website at *www.flra.gov,* anyone who files a document with the Authority (as distinguished from the General Counsel, a Regional Director, or an Administrative Law Judge) must file that document with the Chief, Case Intake and Publication, Federal Labor Relations Authority, Docket Room, Suite 300, 1400 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20424-0001 (telephone: (771) 444-5805). To file documents by personal delivery, you must schedule an appointment at least one business day in advance by calling the telephone number in the previous sentence. Personal delivery is accepted by appointment Monday through Friday (except federal holidays). If you file documents electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, then you may file those documents on any calendar day—including Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays—and the Authority will consider those documents filed on a particular day if you file them no later than 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on that day. Note, however, that although you may eFile documents on Saturdays, Sundays, and federal legal holidays, you are not required to do so. Also note that you may not file documents with the Authority by electronic mail (“email”).


(b) A document submitted to the General Counsel pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the General Counsel at the address set forth in the appendix.


(c) A document submitted to a Regional Director pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate regional office, as set forth in the appendix.


(d) Unless electronically filed pursuant to paragraph (f)(15) of this section, a document filed with the Office of Administrative Law Judges pursuant to this subchapter shall be submitted to the address for the Chief Administrative Law Judge, as set forth in the appendix.


(e) Except as discussed in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, if you are filing documents with the FLRA, then you must file them in person, by commercial delivery, by first-class mail, or by certified mail.


(f) As an alternative to the filing methods discussed in paragraph (e) of this section, you may file the following documents, and only the following documents, electronically through use of the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at *www.flra.gov:*

(1) Applications for review under 5 CFR 2422.31(a) through (c);


(2) Oppositions to applications for review under 5 CFR 2422.31(d);


(3) Exceptions to Administrative Law Judges' decisions under 5 CFR 2423.40(a);


(4) Oppositions to exceptions to Administrative Law Judges' decisions under 5 CFR 2423.40(b);


(5) Cross-exceptions under 5 CFR 2423.40(b);


(6) Exclusive representatives' petitions for review under 5 CFR 2424.22;


(7) Agency statements of position under 5 CFR 2424.24;


(8) Exclusive representatives' responses under 5 CFR 2424.25;


(9) Agency replies under 5 CFR 2424.26;


(10) Exceptions to arbitration awards under 5 CFR part 2425; and


(11) Oppositions to exceptions to arbitration awards under 5 CFR part 2425.


(12) Petitions under 5 CFR part 2422.


(13) Cross-petitions under 5 CFR part 2422.


(14) Charges under 5 CFR part 2423.


(15) Documents submitted to the Office of Administrative Law Judges under 5 CFR part 2423, including answers to complaints, motions, briefs, pre-hearing disclosures, stipulations, and any other documents as permitted by the eFiling system for the Office of Administrative Law Judges.


(g) As another alternative to the methods of filing described in paragraph (e) of this section, you may file the following documents by facsimile (“fax”), so long as fax equipment is available and your entire, individual filing does not exceed 10 pages in total length, with normal margins and font sizes. You may file only the following documents by fax under this paragraph (g):


(1) Motions;


(2) Information pertaining to prehearing disclosure, conferences, orders, or hearing dates, times, and locations;


(3) Information pertaining to subpoenas;


(4) Appeals of a dismissal of an unfair labor practice charge; and


(5) Other matters that are similar to those in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.


(h) You must legibly print, type, or otherwise duplicate any documents that you file under this section. For purposes of documents that are filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system under paragraph (f) of this section, “legibly * * * duplicated” means that documents that you upload as attachments into the eFiling system must be legible.


(i) Documents, including correspondence, in any proceedings under this subchapter must show the title of the proceeding and the case number, if any.


(j) Except for documents that are filed electronically through use of the FLRA's eFiling system, the original of each document required to be filed under this subchapter must be signed by either the filing party or that party's attorney, other representative of record, or officer, and also must contain the address and telephone number of the person who signs the document. Documents that are filed electronically using the FLRA's eFiling system must contain the mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the individual who files the document, but not that individual's signature.


(k) A return postal receipt may serve as acknowledgement that the Authority, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer has received a filed document. Otherwise, the FLRA will acknowledge receipt of filed documents only if the filing party:


(1) Asks the receiving FLRA officer to do so;


(2) Includes an extra copy of the document or the letter to which the document is attached, which the receiving FLRA office will date-stamp and return to the filing party; and


(3) For returns that are to be sent by mail, includes a self-addressed, stamped envelope.



---

[N] [45 FR 3516, Jan. 17, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 45752, Dec. 22, 1986; 58 FR 53105, Oct. 14, 1993; 62 FR 40924, July 31, 1997; 68 FR 10953, Mar. 7, 2003; 68 FR 23885, May 6, 2003; 73 FR 27459, May 13, 2008; 77 FR 26436, May 4, 2012; 77 FR 37762, June 25, 2012; 80 FR 9190, Feb. 20, 2015; 88 FR 80092, Nov. 17, 2023; 89 FR 11702, Feb. 15, 2024]




