# § 165.166   Safety Zones; Coast Guard Captain of the Port New York Zone Drone Displays.

(a) *Locations.* The following areas are designated zones in which a safety zone with a radius up to 500-yards will be established for drone shows. The establishment of a safety zone within a designated zone requires the coordinates defining the center of the safety zone to be within the boundaries of one of the zones described as follows:


(1) *Hudson River Zone 1:* All waters of the Hudson River to include Morris Canal Basin in the vicinity of lower Manhattan, from surface to bottom, encompassed by a line connecting the following points beginning at 40°42′20.9″ N, 74°02′05.7″ W; traveling north along the shoreline thence to 40°46′41.1″ N, 74°00′30.4″ W; thence to 40°46′22.2″ N, 73°59′38.3″ W; traveling south along the shoreline thence to 40°42′02.0″ N, 74°00′51.1″ W; and back to the point of origin.


(2) *East River Zone 2:* All waters of the East River in the vicinity of lower Manhattan, from surface to bottom, encompassed by a line connecting the following points beginning at 40°42′01.6″ N, 74°00′48.7″ W; traveling north along the shoreline thence to 40°46′38.0″ N, 73°56′31.6″ W; thence to 40°46′33.2″N, 73°56′13.4″ W; traveling south along the shoreline thence to 40°44′17.2″ N, 73°57′38.7″ W; thence to 40°44′11.6″ N, 73°57′37.0″ W; continuing south along the shoreline thence to 40°41′35.7″ N, 74°00′14.3″ W; and back to the point of origin. These coordinates are based on Datum WGS 84.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section:


*Designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port New York Zone in the enforcement of the safety zone.


*Official Patrol Vessels* means any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, state, or local law enforcement vessels assigned as an on-scene representative approved by the COTP.


*Spectators* means all persons and vessels not registered with the event sponsor as participants or official patrol vessels.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) When enforced, under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter the designated safety zone, contact the COTP or the COTP's Designated Representative via VHF-FM Marine Channel 16, or by contacting the Coast Guard Sector New York command center at 718-354-4356. Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement periods.* The COTP will make notification of the exact dates and times in advance of each enforcement period for the locations above in paragraph (a) of this section to the local maritime community through marine broadcasts, local notice to mariners, local news media, distribution in leaflet form, or by an on-scene oral notice and signage.



---

[N] [Doc. No. USCG-2024-0225, 89 FR 68104, Aug. 23, 2024]








