# § 488.705   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Abbreviated standard survey* means a focused survey other than a standard survey that gathers information on an HHA's compliance with fewer specific standards or conditions of participation. An abbreviated standard survey may be based on complaints received, a change of ownership or management, or other indicators of specific concern such as reapplication for Medicare billing privileges following a deactivation.


*Complaint survey* means a survey that is conducted to investigate specific allegations of noncompliance.


*Condition-level deficiency* means noncompliance as described in § 488.24 of this part.


*Deficiency* is a violation of the Act and regulations contained in part 484, subparts A through C of this chapter, is determined as part of a survey, and can be either standard or condition-level.


*Extended survey* means a survey that reviews additional conditions of participation not examined during a standard survey. It may be conducted at any time but must be conducted when substandard care is identified.


*Noncompliance* means any deficiency found at the condition-level or standard-level.


*Partial extended survey* means a survey conducted to determine if deficiencies and/or deficient practice(s) exist that were not fully examined during the standard survey. The surveyors may review any additional requirements which would assist in making a compliance finding.


*Standard-level deficiency* means noncompliance with one or more of the standards that make up each condition of participation for HHAs.


*Standard survey* means a survey conducted in which the surveyor reviews the HHA's compliance with a select number of standards and/or conditions of participation in order to determine the quality of care and services furnished by an HHA as measured by indicators related to medical, nursing, and rehabilitative care.


*Substandard care* means noncompliance with one or more conditions of participation identified on a standard survey, including deficiencies which could result in actual or potential harm to patients of an HHA.


*Substantial compliance* means compliance with all condition-level requirements, as determined by CMS or the State.




