# 52.232-12   Advance Payments.

As prescribed in 32.412(a), insert the following clause:


*Alternate I* (APR 1984). If the agency desires to waive the countersignature requirement because of the Contractor's financial strength, good performance record, and favorable experience concerning cost disallowances, add the following sentence, if appropriate, to paragraph (b) of the basic clause:


*Alternate II* (MAY 2001). If used in a cost-reimbursement contract, substitute the following paragraphs (c) and (e), and subparagraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) for paragraphs (c) and (e) and subparagraphs (f) (1) and (2) of the basic clause:


*Alternate III* (APR 1984). If the agency considers a more rapid liquidation appropriate, add the following sentence as the first sentence of paragraph (e) of the basic clause with the appropriate percentage specified:


*Alternate IV* (APR 1984). If the agency provides advance payments under the contract at no interest to the prime contractor, add the following sentences as the beginning sentences of paragraph (f) of the clause:


*Alternate V* (MAY 2001). If the requirement for a special account is eliminated in accordance with 32.409-3 (e) or (g), insert the clause set forth below instead of the basic clause.


If this Alternate is used in combination with *Alternate III,* insert the additional sentence set forth in *Alternate III* as the first sentence of paragraph (d) of this Alternate.


If this Alternate is used in combination with *Alternate IV,* insert the additional sentences set forth in *Alternate IV* as the beginning sentences of paragraph (e) of this Alternate.



---

[N] [48 FR 42478, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 55 FR 25532, June 21, 1990; 64 FR 10534, Mar. 4, 1999; 66 FR 2138, Jan. 10, 2001]




