# § 1005.819   Types of satisfactory title evidence.

The following types of title evidence shall be satisfactory to HUD:


(a) *Fee or owner's title policy.* A fee or owner's policy of title insurance, a guaranty or guarantee of title, or a certificate of title, issued by a title company, duly authorized by law and qualified by experience to issue such instruments. If an owner's policy of title insurance is furnished, it shall show title in HUD's name and inure to the benefit of the Department. The policy must be drawn in favor of the Holder and HUD, “and their successors and assigns, as their interests may appear”, with the consent of the title company endorsed thereon.


(b) *Policy of title insurance.* A Holder's policy of title insurance supplemented by an abstract and an attorney's certificate of title covering the period subsequent to the date of the loan, the terms of the policy shall be such that the liability of the title company will continue in favor of HUD after title is conveyed to HUD. The policy must be drawn in favor of the Servicer and HUD, “and their successors and assigns, as their interests may appear”, with the consent of the title company endorsed thereon;


(c) *Abstract and legal opinion.* An abstract of title prepared by an abstract company or individual engaged in the business of preparing abstracts of title and accompanied by the legal opinion as to the quality of such title signed by an attorney at law experienced in examination of titles. If title evidence consists of an abstract and an attorney's certificate of title, the search shall extend for at least forty years prior to the date of the Certificate to a well-recognized source of good title;


(d) *Torrens or similar certificate.* A Torrens or similar title certificate;


(e) *Title standard of U.S., Tribal, or State government.* Evidence of title conforming to the standards of a supervising branch of the Government of the United States or of any Tribe, State or Territory thereof; or


(f) *Title Status Report.* Certified Title Status Report issued by the BIA or other comparable document approved by HUD in accordance with Section 184 Program Guidance, shall not be more than sixty (60) days from the date of the § 1005.807(a) claim submission. Extensions may be granted under certain reasonable circumstances, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.






