# § 63.152   General reporting and continuous records.

(a) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section and keep continuous records of monitored parameters as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Owners or operators requesting an extension of compliance shall also submit the report described in § 63.151(a)(6) of this subpart.


(1) An Initial Notification described in § 63.151(b) of this subpart.


(2) An Implementation Plan described in § 63.151(c), (d), and (e) of this subpart for existing sources with emission points that are included in an emissions average or for new sources.


(3) A Notification of Compliance Status described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(5) Other reports described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(b) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 150 calendar days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part.


(1) The notification shall include the results of any emission point group determinations, performance tests, inspections, continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information used to demonstrate compliance or required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under § 63.110 (h) for regulatory overlaps, under § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.122 for storage vessels, § 63.129 for transfer operations, § 63.146 for process wastewater, and § 63.150 for emission points included in an emissions average.


(i) For performance tests and group determinations that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.129 for transfer, and § 63.146 for process wastewater shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.






(ii) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.


(2) For each monitored parameter for which a range is required to be established under § 63.114 for process vents, § 63.127 for transfer, § 63.143 for process wastewater, § 63.150(m) for emission points in emissions averages, or § 63.151(f), or § 63.152(e), the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), and (b)(2)(iii) of this section, unless the range and the operating day definition have been established in the operating permit. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements applicable to storage vessels are located in §§ 63.122 and 63.123.


(i) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point;


(ii) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range indicates proper operation of the control device.


(A) If a performance test is required by this subpart for a control device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the performance test and may be supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values.


(B) If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a control device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.


(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.


(3) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the values of all parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.150 (g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.150 (g) and (h) of this subpart, and the resulting calculation of credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F.


(4) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.110 of this subpart and if the provisions of § 63.110 of this subpart allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.


(5) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility.


(6) An owner or operator complying with § 63.113(i) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status, or where applicable, a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status, the name and location of the transferee, and the identification of the Group 1 process vent.


(7) For flares subject to the requirements in § 63.108, owners and operators must also submit the information in this paragraph in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for flare monitoring. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must include flare design (*e.g.,* steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point); all visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h) of subpart CC of this part, as applicable; and all periods during the compliance determination when the pilot flame or flare flame is absent.


(8) For process vents and storage vessels subject to the requirements of § 63.124, owners and operators must also submit the information in this paragraph in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must identify all process vents and storage vessels that are in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.101, the method(s) used to control ethylene oxide emissions from each process vent and storage vessel (*i.e.,* use of a flare, scrubber, or other control device) and the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) and (b)(8)(ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For process vents, all uncontrolled, undiluted ethylene oxide concentration measurements, and the calculations used to determine the total uncontrolled ethylene oxide mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams; and


(ii) For storage vessels, include the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in each storage vessel.


(9) For adsorbers subject to the requirements of §§ 63.114(a)(5)(v), 63.120(d)(1)(iii), 63.127(b)(4), and 63.139(d)(5), you must also submit the information listed in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date.


(i) Whether the adsorber cannot be regenerated or is a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite.


(ii) The breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life established during the initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber.


(10) For Group 2 process vents subject to the requirements in § 63.113(l), owners and operators must also submit the information in this paragraph in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must identify each Group 2 process vent and include the data and calculations specified in § 63.115(g) that are used to demonstrate that the total organic HAP mass flow rate of each vent stream is less than 1.0 pound per hour.


(c) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports. On and after July 15, 2027 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Hazardous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead. Owners and operators must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.9(i) and § 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(1) Except as specified under paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(6) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(7) of this section shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 8 months after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. All periodic reports must contain the company name and address (including county), as well as the beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, for an owner or operator of a source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.113 through 63.147 for any emission points, Periodic Reports shall include all information specified in §§ 63.117 and 63.118 for process vents, § 63.122 for storage vessels, §§ 63.129 and 63.130 for transfer operations, and § 63.146 for process wastewater, including reports of each excursion (*i.e.,* each period when a monitored parameter is outside the established range and periods of insufficient monitoring data) using the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(i) Report the affected sources or equipment, the monitored parameter that was exceeded and the date of each excursion.


(ii) The parameter monitoring data for Group 1 emission points and emission points included in emissions averages that are required to perform continuous monitoring shall be used to determine compliance with the required operating conditions for the monitored control devices or recovery devices. For each excursion as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (c)(2)(ii)(E) of this section, or paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section, except for excused excursions described therein, the owner or operator shall be deemed to have failed to have applied the control in a manner that achieves the required operating conditions and must report the information specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(F) of this section.


(A) An excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*1*), (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*2*), or (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*3*) of this section. For a control device or recovery device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*1*), (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*2*), or (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*3*) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control device or recovery device.


(*1*) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is outside the permitted range.


(*2*) When the period of control device or recovery device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.


(*3*) When the period of control device or recovery device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than one of the hours during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.


(*4*) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*2*) and (c)(2)(ii)(A)(*3*) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour. For data compression systems approved under § 63.151(g)(4), monitoring data are insufficient to calculate a valid hour of data if there are less than 4 data values recorded during the hour.


(B) The number of excused excursions for each control device or recovery device for each semiannual period is specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (c)(2)(ii)(B)(*6*) of this section. This paragraph applies to sources required to submit Periodic Reports semiannually or quarterly. The first semiannual period is the 6-month period starting the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.


(*1*) For the first semiannual period—six excused excursions.


(*2*) For the second semiannual period—five excused excursions.


(*3*) For the third semiannual period—four excused excursions.


(*4*) For the fourth semiannual period—three excused excursions.


(*5*) For the fifth semiannual period—two excused excursions.


(*6*) For the sixth and all subsequent semiannual periods—one excused excursion.


(C) A monitored parameter that is outside its established range or monitoring data that are not collected are excursions. However, if the conditions in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C)(*1*) or (c)(2)(ii)(C)(*2*) of this section are met, these excursions are not violations and do not count toward the number of excused excursions for determining compliance.


(*1*) *Periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction.* During periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction when the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.102(a)(4). For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.


(*2*) *Periods of nonoperation.* During periods of nonoperation of the chemical manufacturing process unit, or portion thereof, that results in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.


(D) Nothing in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section shall be construed to allow or excuse a monitoring parameter excursion caused by any activity that violates other applicable provisions of subpart A, F, or G of this part.


(E) Paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, except paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, shall apply only to emission points and control devices or recovery devices for which continuous monitoring is required by §§ 63.113 through 63.150.


(F) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), for each excursion that is not an excused excursion, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, the monitored parameter for which there was an excursion, the date of the excursion, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the excursion (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(iii) Periodic Reports shall include the daily average values of monitored parameters for both excused and unexcused excursions, as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the affected equipment or source, the monitored parameter, the start date and duration in hours of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.


(iv) The provisions of paragraphs (c)(2) of this section, and (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, do not apply to any storage vessel for which the owner or operator is not required, by the applicable monitoring plan established under § 63.120(d)(2), to keep continuous records. If continuous records are required, the owner or operator shall specify, in the monitoring plan, whether the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2) of this section, and (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(3) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, if any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:


(i) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(ii) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information required in § 63.117 for process vents, § 63.129 for transfer, and § 63.146 for process wastewater shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.


(iii) If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Periodic Report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Periodic Report is submitted.


(4) Periodic Reports shall include the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable:


(i) For process vents, reports of process changes as required under § 63.118(g), (h), (i), and (j),


(ii) Any supplements required under § 63.151(i) and (j),


(iii) Notification if any Group 2 emission point becomes a Group 1 emission point, including a compliance schedule as required in § 63.100, and


(iv) For gas streams sent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) or for process wastewater streams sent for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g), reports of changes in the identity of the transferee.


(5) The owner or operator of a source shall submit quarterly reports for all emission points included in an emissions average.


(i) The quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter. The first report shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 5 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100.


(ii) The quarterly reports shall include the information specified in this paragraph for all emission points included in an emissions average.


(A) The credits and debits calculated each month during the quarter;


(B) A demonstration that debits calculated for the quarter are not more than 1.30 times the credits calculated for the quarter, as required under § 63.150(e)(4).


(C) The values of any inputs to the credit and debit equations in § 63.150(g) and (h) that change from month to month during the quarter or that have changed since the previous quarter;


(D) Results of any performance tests conducted during the reporting period including one complete report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Periodic Report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Periodic Report is submitted.;


(E) Reports of daily average values of monitored parameters for both excused and unexcused excursions as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified. Include the affected sources or equipment, monitored parameter, and the date for each excursion.


(iii) Paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 and Group 2 points included in emissions averages. For storage vessels to which the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply (as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section), the owner or operator is required to comply with the provisions of the applicable monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance.


(iv) Every fourth quarterly report shall include the following:


(A) A demonstration that annual credits are greater than or equal to annual debits as required by § 63.150(e)(3); and


(B) A certification of compliance with all the emissions averaging provisions in § 63.150.


(6) The owner or operator of a source shall submit reports quarterly for particular emission points not included in an emissions average under the circumstances described in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit quarterly reports for a period of one year for an emission point that is not included in an emissions average if:


(A) The emission point has more excursions, as defined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, than the number of excused excursions allowed under paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section for a semiannual reporting period; and


(B) The Administrator requests the owner or operator to submit quarterly reports for the emission point.


(ii) The quarterly reports shall include all information in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section applicable to the emission point(s) for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(iii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each quarter.


(iv) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for one year, the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point unless the Administrator requests the owner or operator to continue to submit quarterly reports.


(v) Paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 emission points. For storage vessels to which the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply (as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section), the owner or operator is required to comply with the provisions of the applicable monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance.


(7) The information specified in § 63.108(l)(2) of subpart F of this part.
















(d) Other reports shall be submitted as specified in subpart A of this part or in §§ 63.113 through 63.151 of this subpart. These reports are:


(1) Reports of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction required by § 63.10(d)(5). The start-up, shutdown and malfunction reports may be submitted on the same schedule as the Periodic Reports required under paragraph (c) of this section instead of the schedule specified in § 63.10(d)(5). For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.




(2) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by § 63.122 (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this subpart.


(3) For owners or operators of sources required to request approval for a nominal control efficiency for use in calculating credits for an emissions average, the information specified in § 63.150(i) of this subpart.


(4) If an owner or operator transfers for disposal a gas stream that has the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h) or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i) to an off-site location or an on-site location not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source and the vent stream was not included in the information submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status or a previous periodic report, the owner or operator shall submit a supplemental report. The supplemental report shall be submitted no later than July 23, 2001 or with the next periodic report, whichever is later. The report shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(i) The chemical manufacturing process unit(s) that is the origin of all or part of the vent stream that exits the process vent. 


(ii) The type(s) of unit operations (i.e., an air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor) that creates the vent stream that exits the process vent. 


(iii) For a Group 2 process vent, the last recovery device, if any. 


(iv) For a Group 1 process vent, the identity of the transferee.


(e) An owner or operator subject to this subpart shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section with the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority. The owner or operator shall submit written updates as amendments to the operating permit application on the schedule and under the circumstances described in § 63.151(j) of this subpart. Notwithstanding, if the owner or operator has an operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the owner or operator shall follow the schedule and format required by the permitting authority.


(1) The information specified in § 63.151 (f) or (g) of this subpart for any emission points for which the owner or operator requests approval to monitor a unique parameter or use an alternative monitoring and recording system, and


(2) The information specified in § 63.151(d) of this subpart for points included in an emissions average.


(3) The information specified in § 63.151(e) of this subpart for points not included in an emissions average.


(4) The information specified in § 63.151(h) as applicable.


(f) Owners or operators required to keep continuous records by §§ 63.118, 63.130, 63.147, 63.150, or other sections of this subpart shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(7) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under § 63.151(f) or (g) or § 63.152(e) or under § 63.8(f), and except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(C) of this section or in paragraph (g) of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.120(d)(2)(i) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(7) of this section apply. Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.




(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every 15 minutes.


(2) The owner or operator shall record either:


(i) Each measured data value; or


(ii) Block average values for 15-minute or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period or at least one measured data value per minute if measured more frequently than once per minute.


(3) If the daily average value of a monitored parameter for a given operating day is within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator shall either:


(i) Retain block hourly average values for that operating day for 5 years and discard, at or after the end of that operating day, the 15-minute or more frequent average values and readings recorded under paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or


(ii) Retain the data recorded in paragraph (f)(2) of this section for 5 years.


(4) If the daily average value of a monitored parameter for a given operating day is outside the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator shall retain the data recorded that operating day under paragraph (f)(2) of this section for 5 years.


(5) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day, and retained for 5 years, except as specified in paragraphs (f)(6) and (f)(7) of this section.


(i) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.


(ii) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period.


(6) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were within the range and retain this record for 5 years rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day. For these operating days, the records required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section shall also be retained for 5 years.


(7) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(7)(vi) of this section monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (f)(7)(v) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device operation when monitors are not operating.








(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments;


(ii) Start-ups;


(iii) Shutdowns;


(iv) Malfunctions;


(v) Periods of non-operation of the chemical manufacturing process unit (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.


(vi) For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, paragraphs (f)(7)(ii) through (f)(7)(iv) no longer apply.






(g) For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118 for process vents, §§ 63.127, 63.129, and 63.130 for transfer operations, §§ 63.143, 63.146, and 63.147 for wastewater, and/or § 63.152(f), except that § 63.152(f)(7) shall apply. The owner or operator shall retain each record required by paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section as provided in § 63.103(c) of subpart F of this part, except as provided otherwise in paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average value, and is not required to retain more frequent monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section are met. An owner or operator electing to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the periodic report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(i) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions (*e.g.,* a temperature reading of −200 °C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions (*e.g.,* a temperature reading of −200 °C on a boiler),” in this paragraph no longer applies.


(ii) The monitoring system generates, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, a running average of the monitoring values that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the criteria in paragraphs (g)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.


(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits;


(B) The running average is based on at least 6 1-hour average values; and


(C) The running average reflects a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction” in this paragraph no longer applies.


(iii) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions, except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data is the expected operating condition based on past experience (*e.g.,* pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in this paragraph no longer applies.


(iv) The monitoring system will alert the owner or operator by an alarm or other means, if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.


(v) The owner or operator shall verify the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, at the times specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (C) of this section. The owner or operator shall document that the required verifications occurred.


(A) Upon initial installation.


(B) Annually after initial installation.


(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, which might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.


(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (g)(1)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Identification of each parameter, for each item of equipment, for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.


(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s), and of how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraph (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(v) of this section. The description shall include monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) and the pollutant or parameter monitored, and identify the location and format (*e.g.,* on-line storage; log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent superseded description. The description, and the most recent superseded description, shall be retained as provided in § 63.103(c) of subpart F of this part, except as provided in paragraph (g)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.


(C) A description, and the date, of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to affect its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(D) Owners and operators subject to paragraph (g)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current, but not less than 5 years from the date of its creation. The current description shall, at all times, be retained on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain the most recent superseded description at least until 5 years from the date of its creation. The superseded description shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer that provides access within 2 hours after a request) at least 6 months after its creation. Thereafter, the superseded description may be stored off-site.


(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average value for that parameter for that unit of equipment, for any operating day when the daily average value is less than the maximum, or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring was required and/or approved by the Administrator.


(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.


(ii) If, on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily averages as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average value for each day, and shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section.


(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section. For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (g)(1) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction. For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, the phrase “other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction” in this paragraph no longer applies.


(iv) For purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The daily average value during any startup, shutdown, or malfunction shall not be considered an excursion for purposes of this paragraph (g)(2), if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.102(a)(4). For each source as defined in § 63.101, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.


(B) An excused excursion, as described in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(B) and (C), shall not be considered an excursion for purposes of this paragraph (g)(2).


(h) Beginning no later than July 15, 2024, owners and operators must submit performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, owners and operators must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (ht*tps://**www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, owners and operators may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.









---

[N] [59 FR 19468, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 63629, Dec. 12, 1995; 61 FR 64577, Dec. 5, 1996; 62 FR 2776, Jan. 17, 1997; 64 FR 20195, Apr. 26, 1999; 66 FR 6934, Jan. 22, 2001; 71 FR 20456, Apr. 20, 2006; 89 FR 43208, May 16, 2024]




