# § 6.83   Product displays.

(a) *General.* The act by an industry member of giving or selling product displays to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act provided that the conditions prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section are met.


(b) *Definition.* “Product display” means any wine racks, bins, barrels, casks, shelving, or similar items the primary function of which is to hold and display consumer products.


(c) *Conditions and limitations.* (1) The total value of all product displays given or sold by an industry member under paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed $300 per brand at any one time in any one retail establishment. Industry members may not pool or combine dollar limitations in order to provide a retailer a product display valued in excess of $300 per brand. The value of a product display is the actual cost to the industry member who initially purchased it. Transportation and installation costs are excluded.


(2) All product displays must bear conspicuous and substantial advertising matter on the product or the industry member which is permanently inscribed or securely affixed. The name and address of the retailer may appear on the product displays.


(3) The giving or selling of such product displays may be conditioned upon the purchase of the distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages advertised on those displays in a quantity necessary for the initial completion of such display. No other condition can be imposed by the industry member on the retailer in order for the retailer to receive or obtain the product display.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-364, 60 FR 20422, Apr. 26, 1995]




