# § 290.2   Definitions.

*Appropriate Bureau official* (ABO) means the Bureau official with delegated authority to approve tribal revenue allocation plans. 


*IGRA* means the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-497) 102 Stat. 2467 dated October 17, 1988, (Codified at 25 U.S.C. 2701-2721(1988)) and any amendments. 


*Indian Tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians that the Secretary recognizes as: 


(1) Eligible for the speci al programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and 


(2) Having powers of self-government.


*Legal incompetent* means an individual who is eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has been declared to be under a legal disability, other than being a minor, by a court of competent jurisdiction, including tribal justice systems or as established by the tribe.


*Member of an Indian tribe* means an individual who meets the requirements established by applicable tribal law for enrollment in the tribe and—


(1) Is listed on the tribal rolls of that tribe if such rolls are kept or


(2) Is recognized as a member by the tribal governing body if tribal rolls are not kept.


*Minor* means an individual who is eligible to participate in a per capita payment and who has not reached the age of 18 years.


*Per capita payment* means the distribution of money or other thing of value to all members of the tribe, or to identified groups of members, which is paid directly from the net revenues of any tribal gaming activity. This definition does not apply to payments which have been set aside by the tribe for special purposes or programs, such as payments made for social welfare, medical assistance, education, housing or other similar, specifically identified needs.


*Resolution* means the formal document in which the tribal governing body expresses its legislative will in accordance with applicable tribal law.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his/her authorized representative.


*Superintendent* means the official or other designated representative of the BIA in charge of the field office which has immediate administrative responsibility for the affairs of the tribe for which a tribal revenue allocation plan is prepared.


*Tribal governing body* means the governing body of an Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary.


*Tribal revenue allocation plan* or *allocation plan* means the document submitted by an Indian tribe that provides for distributing net gaming revenues.


*You or your* means the Indian tribe.




