# § 1.274-9   Entertainment provided to specified individuals.

(a) *In general.* Paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(9) of section 274 provide exceptions to the disallowance of section 274(a) for expenses for entertainment, amusement, or recreation activities, or for an entertainment facility. In the case of a specified individual (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the exceptions of paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(9) of section 274 apply only to the extent that the expenses do not exceed the amount of the expenses treated as compensation (under section 274(e)(2)) or as income (under section 274(e)(9)) to the specified individual. The amount disallowed is reduced by any amount that the specified individual reimburses a taxpayer for the entertainment.


(b) *Specified individual defined.* (1) A specified individual is an individual who is subject to section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934 in relation to the taxpayer, or an individual who would be subject to section 16(a) if the taxpayer were an issuer of equity securities referred to in that section. Thus, for example, a specified individual is an officer, director, or more than 10 percent owner of a corporation taxed under subchapter C or subchapter S or a personal service corporation. A specified individual includes every individual who—


(i) Is the direct or indirect beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class of any registered equity (other than an exempted security);


(ii) Is a director or officer of the issuer of the security;


(iii) Would be the direct or indirect beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class of a registered security if the taxpayer were an issuer of equity securities; or


(iv) Is comparable to an officer or director of an issuer of equity securities.


(2) For partnership purposes, a specified individual includes any partner that holds more than a 10 percent equity interest in the partnership, or any general partner, officer, or managing partner of a partnership.


(3) For purposes of this section, *officer* has the same meaning as in 17 CFR § 240.16a-1(f).


(4) A specified individual includes a director or officer of a tax-exempt entity.


(5) A specified individual of a taxpayer includes a specified individual of a party related to the taxpayer within the meaning of section 267(b) or section 707(b).


(c) *Specified individual treated as recipient of entertainment provided to others.* For purposes of section 274(a), a specified individual is treated as the recipient of entertainment provided to another individual because of the relationship of the other individual to the specified individual if the entertainment is a fringe benefit to the specified individual under section 61(a)(1) (without regard to any exclusions from gross income). Thus, expenses allocable to entertainment provided to the other individual are attributed to the specified individual for purposes of determining the amount of disallowed expenses.


(d) *Entertainment use of aircraft by specified individuals.* For rules relating to entertainment use of aircraft by specified individuals, see § 1.274-10.


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after August 1, 2012.



---

[N] [T.D. 9597, 77 FR 45483, Aug. 1, 2012]




