# ยง 585.613   How will BOEM process my SAP?

(a) BOEM will review your submitted SAP, and additional information provided pursuant to ยง 585.611, to determine if it contains the information necessary to conduct our technical and environmental reviews.


(1) We will notify you if we deem your proposed facility or combination of facilities to be complex or significant; and


(2) We will notify you if your submitted SAP lacks any necessary information.


(b) BOEM will prepare a NEPA analysis, as appropriate.


(c) As appropriate, we will coordinate and consult with relevant Federal and State agencies, affected federally recognized Indian Tribes and executives of relevant local governments and will provide to other Federal, State, and local agencies and affected federally recognized Indian Tribes relevant nonproprietary data and information pertaining to your proposed activities.


(d) During the review process, we may request additional information if we determine that the information provided is not sufficient to complete the review and approval process. If you fail to provide the requested information, BOEM may disapprove your SAP.


(e) Upon completion of our technical and environmental reviews and other reviews required by Federal laws (*e.g.,* CZMA), BOEM will approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions your SAP.


(1) If we approve your SAP, we will specify terms and conditions to be incorporated into your SAP. You must certify compliance with those terms and conditions, required under 30 CFR 285.615(b); and


(2) If we disapprove your SAP, we will inform you of the reasons and allow you an opportunity to submit a revised plan addressing our concerns, and we may suspend your lease, as appropriate, to give you a reasonable amount of time to resubmit the SAP.




