# ยง 257.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Air transportation* means foreign air transportation or interstate air transportation as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102 (a)(23) and (25) respectively.


*Carrier* means any air carrier or foreign air carrier as defined in 49 U.S.C. 40102(2) or 49 U.S.C. 40102(21), respectively, that is engaged directly in scheduled passenger air transportation, including by wet lease.


*Code-sharing arrangement* means an arrangement whereby a carrier's designator code is used to identify a flight operated by another carrier.


*Designator code* means the airline designations originally allotted, administered, and prescribed by the Department of Transportation (DOT), by operation of law, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII or its predecessor's statutory provisions still in effect by law.


*Long-term wet lease* means a lease by which the lessor provides both an aircraft and crew dedicated to a particular route(s), and which either:


(1) Lasts more than 60 days; or


(2) Is part of a series of such leases that amounts to a continuing arrangement lasting more than 60 days.


*Operating carrier* means the carrier that is operating the aircraft in a code-sharing arrangement or long-term wet lease.


*Ticket agent* has the meaning ascribed to it in 49 U.S.C. 40102(45).



---

[N] [64 FR 12851, Mar. 15, 1999, as amended by Docket No. DOT-OST-2014-0056, 81 FR 76828, Nov. 3, 2016, as amended by Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15932, Apr. 16, 2019]




