# ยง 900.200   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the terms as defined in the Act shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, unless the context otherwise requires:


(a) The term *Act* means Public Act No. 10, 73d Congress (48 Stat. 31), as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 246, 7 U.S.C. 601), as amended;


(b) The term *Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture;


(c) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead;


(d) The term *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Department;


(e) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in his stead.


(f) The term *mail* means to transmit either electronically or through a postal or other delivery system, information or a package (*e.g.,* letter or envelope) to a recipient.


(g) The term _Federal Register_ means the publication provided for by the Act of July 26, 1935 (49 Stat. 500), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof;


(h) The term *marketing agreement* means any marketing agreement or any amendment thereto which may be entered into pursuant to section 8b of the Act;


(i) The term *marketing order* means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to section 8c of the Act;


(j) The term *person* means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other business unit;


(k) The term *official* means the Secretary, any officer, employee, or other person employed or appointed by the Department, and any agency or agent appointed by the Secretary to administer a marketing agreement or a marketing order, and any agent or employee of any such agency or agent;


(l) The term *information* means and includes reports, books, accounts, records, and the facts and information contained therein and required to be furnished to or acquired by any official pursuant to the provisions of any marketing agreement or marketing order.



---

[N] [25 FR 5907, June 28, 1960, as amended at 26 FR 7796, Aug. 22, 1961; 28 FR 579, Jan. 23, 1963; 37 FR 8059, Apr. 25, 1972; 83 FR 27682, June 14, 2018]




