# ยง 763.163   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


*Act* means the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*

*Agency* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


*Asbestos* means the asbestiform varieties of: chrysotile (serpentine); crocidolite (riebeckite); amosite (cummingtonite-grunerite); tremolite; anthophyllite; and actinolite.


*Asbestos-containing product* means any product to which asbestos is deliberately added in any concentration or which contains more than 1.0 percent asbestos by weight or area. 


*Chemical substance,* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.


*Commerce* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.


*Commercial paper* means an asbestos-containing product which is made of paper intended for use as general insulation paper or muffler paper. Major applications of commercial papers are insulation against fire, heat transfer, and corrosion in circumstances that require a thin, but durable, barrier.


*Corrugated paper* means an asbestos-containing product made of corrugated paper, which is often cemented to a flat backing, may be laminated with foils or other materials, and has a corrugated surface. Major applications of asbestos corrugated paper include: thermal insulation for pipe coverings; block insulation; panel insulation in elevators; insulation in appliances; and insulation in low-pressure steam, hot water, and process lines.


*Customs territory of the United States* means the 50 States, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.


*Distribute in commerce* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act, but the term does not include actions taken with respect to an asbestos-containing product (to sell, resale, deliver, or hold) in connection with the end use of the product by persons who are users (persons who use the product for its intended purpose after it is manufactured or processed). The term also does not include distribution by manufacturers, importers, and processors, and other persons solely for purposes of disposal of an asbestos-containing product.


*Flooring felt* means an asbestos-containing product which is made of paper felt intended for use as an underlayer for floor coverings, or to be bonded to the underside of vinyl sheet flooring.


*Import* means to bring into the customs territory of the United States, except for: (1) Shipment through the customs territory of the United States for export without any use, processing, or disposal within the customs territory of the United States; or (2) entering the customs territory of the United States as a component of a product during normal personal or business activities involving use of the product.


*Importer* means anyone who imports a chemical substance, including a chemical substance as part of a mixture or article, into the customs territory of the United States. *Importer* includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term includes as appropriate:


(1) The consignee.


(2) The importer of record.


(3) The actual owner if an actual owner's declaration and superseding bond has been filed in accordance with 19 CFR 141.20.


(4) The transferee, if the right to withdraw merchandise in a bonded warehouse has been transferred in accordance with subpart C of 19 CFR part 144.


*Manufacture* means to produce or manufacture in the United States.


*Manufacturer* means a person who produces or manufactures in the United States.


*New uses of asbestos* means commercial uses of asbestos not identified in ยง 763.165 the manufacture, importation or processing of which would be initiated for the first time after August 25, 1989. 


*Person* means any natural person, firm, company, corporation, joint-venture, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, or any other business entity; any State or political subdivision thereof, or any municipality; any interstate body and any department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government.


*Process* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.


*Processor* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.


*Rollboard* means an asbestos-containing product made of paper that is produced in a continuous sheet, is flexible, and is rolled to achieve a desired thickness. Asbestos rollboard consists of two sheets of asbestos paper laminated together. Major applications of this product include: office partitioning; garage paneling; linings for stoves and electric switch boxes; and fire-proofing agent for security boxes, safes, and files.


*Specialty paper* means an asbestos-containing product that is made of paper intended for use as filters for beverages or other fluids or as paper fill for cooling towers. Cooling tower fill consists of asbestos paper that is used as a cooling agent for liquids from industrial processes and air conditioning systems.


*State* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.


*Stock-on-hand* means the products which are in the possession, direction, or control of a person and are intended for distribution in commerce.


*United States* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act.



---

[N] [59 FR 33208, June 28, 1994]




