# § 1066.835   Exhaust emission test procedure for SC03 emissions.

This section describes how to test using the SC03 driving schedule (see § 1066.801). This procedure is designed to determine gaseous exhaust emissions while simulating an urban trip on a hot summer day. The provisions of 40 CFR part 86 and 40 CFR part 600 waive SC03 testing for some vehicles; in those cases, calculate SFTP composite emissions by adjusting the weighting calculation as specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart S.


(a) Drain and refill the vehicle's fuel tank(s) if testing starts more than 72 hours after the most recent FTP or HFET measurement (with or without evaporative emission measurements).


(b) Keep the vehicle in an environment meeting the conditions described in paragraph (f) of this section throughout the preconditioning sequence.


(c) Warm up the vehicle to a stabilized condition as follows:


(1) Push or drive the test vehicle onto the dynamometer.


(2) Close the vehicle's windows before testing.


(3) The test cell and equipment must meet the specifications in paragraph (e) of this section. Measure and control ambient conditions as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(4) Set the vehicle's air conditioning controls by selecting A/C mode and “maximum”, setting airflow to “recirculate” (if so equipped), selecting the highest fan setting, and turning the A/C temperature to full cold (or 72 °F for automatic systems). Turn the control to the “on” position before testing so the air conditioning system is active whenever the engine is running.


(5) Perform a preconditioning drive by operating the test vehicle one time over the first 505 seconds of the UDDS (bag 1), the last 867 seconds of the UDDS (bag 2), or the SC03 driving schedule. If the air conditioning test sequence starts more than 2 hours after a different exhaust emission test, you may instead operate the vehicle one time over the full UDDS.


(6) Following the preconditioning drive, turn off the test vehicle and the vehicle cooling fan(s) and allow the vehicle to soak for (9 to 11) minutes.


(d) Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:


(1) Place the vehicle in gear 15 seconds after engine starting, which is 3 seconds before the first acceleration. Follow the SC03 driving schedule.


(2) Turn the engine off 2 seconds after the end of the last deceleration. Five seconds after the engine stops running, stop all sampling and recording, including background sampling. Stop any integrating devices any indicate the end of the test cycle in the recorded data. Note that the 5 second delay is intended to account for sampling system transport.


(3) Correct calculated NO_X_ emissions as described in § 1066.615(a)(2).


(e) The following requirements apply for the test cell and cooling fan configuration:


(1) *Minimum test cell size.* The test cell must be at least 20 feet wide, 40 feet long, and 10 feet high, unless we approve the use of a smaller test cell. We will approve this only if you demonstrate that the smaller test cell is capable of meeting all the requirements of this section.


(2) *Vehicle frontal air flow.* Verify that the fan configuration meets the requirements of § 1066.105(c)(5).


(f) Maintain ambient conditions as follows:


(1) *Ambient temperature and humidity.* Measure and record ambient temperature and humidity in the test cell at least once every 30 seconds during the sampling period. Alternatively, if you collect data of at least once every 12 seconds, you may use a moving average of up to 30 second intervals to measure and record ambient temperature and humidity. Control ambient temperature throughout the test sequence to (35.0 ± 3.0) °C. Control ambient temperature during emission sampling to (33.6 to 36.4) °C on average. Control ambient humidity during emission sampling as described in § 1066.420(d).


(2) *Conditions before testing.* Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate that you meet the specified temperature and humidity tolerances in paragraph (f)(1) of this section during the preconditioning cycle and during the vehicle soak period in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.








(3) *Solar heat load.* Simulate solar heating as follows:


(i) You may use a metal halide lamp, a sodium lamp, or a quartz halogen lamp with dichroic mirrors as a radiant energy emitter. We may also approve the use of a different type of radiant energy emitter if you demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section.


(ii) We recommend achieving radiant heating with spectral distribution characteristics as described in the following table:


(iii) Determine radiant energy intensity experienced by the vehicle as the average value between two measurements along the vehicle's centerline, one at the base of the windshield and the other at the bottom of the rear window (or equivalent location for vehicles without a rear window). This value must be (850 ± 45) W/m
2. Instruments for measuring radiant energy intensity must meet the following minimum specifications:


(A) Sensitivity of 9 microvolts per W/m
2.


(B) Response time of 5 seconds. For purposes of this requirement, “response time” means the time for the instrument to reach 95 percent of its equilibrium response after a step change in radiant intensity.


(C) Cosine response error of no more than ±1% for 0-70 degree zenith angles. The cosine response error is the percentage difference between the intensity measured at a given angle and a reference value, where the reference value is the intensity predicted from the zero-degree intensity and the cosine of the incident angle.


(D) When comparing measured values for radiant energy to reference values, each measured value over the full range of measurement may not deviate from the corresponding reference value by more than ±0.5% of the analyzer range's maximum value.


(iv) Check the uniformity of radiant energy intensity at least every 500 hours of emitter usage or every 6 months, whichever is sooner, and after any major modifications affecting the solar simulation. Determine uniformity by measuring radiant energy intensity using instruments that meet the specifications described in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section at each point of a 0.5 m grid over the vehicle's full footprint, including the edges of the footprint, at an elevation 1 m above the floor. Measured values of radiant energy intensity must be between (722 and 978) W/m
2 at all points.



---

[N] [79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 9124, Feb. 19, 2015; 81 FR 74214, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34584, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4709, Jan. 24, 2023]




