# § 28.2801-7   Determining responsibility under section 2801.

(a) *Responsibility of U.S. citizens or residents receiving gifts or bequests from expatriates.* It is the responsibility of the taxpayer (in this case, the U.S. citizen or resident receiving a gift or bequest from an expatriate or a distribution from a foreign trust funded at least in part by an expatriate) to ascertain the taxpayer's obligations under section 2801 of the Code, which includes making the determination of whether the transferor is a covered expatriate and whether the transfer is a covered gift or covered bequest.


(b) *Disclosure of return and return information*—(1) *In general.* In certain circumstances, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may be permitted, upon request of a U.S. citizen or resident in receipt of a gift or bequest from an expatriate, to disclose to the U.S. citizen or resident return or return information of the donor or decedent expatriate that may assist the U.S. citizen or resident in determining whether the donor or decedent was a covered expatriate and whether the transfer was a covered gift or covered bequest. *See* section 6103 of the Code. The U.S. citizen or resident may not rely upon this information, however, if the U.S. citizen or resident knows, or has reason to know, that the information received from the IRS is incorrect or incomplete. The circumstances under which such information may be disclosed to a U.S. citizen or resident, the process for authorizing disclosures, and the procedures for requesting such information from the IRS, will be as provided by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter).


(2) *Rebuttable presumption.* Unless a living donor expatriate authorizes the disclosure of the donor expatriate's relevant return or return information to the U.S. citizen or resident receiving the gift, there is a rebuttable presumption that the donor is a covered expatriate and that the gift is a covered gift.


(c) *Protective return.* A taxpayer who reasonably concludes that a gift or bequest is not subject to section 2801 may file a protective Form 708 to start the period of limitations for the assessment of any section 2801 tax. See § 28.6011-1(b) that provides safe harbor procedures for filing a protective Form 708.


(d) *Applicability date.* This section applies on and after January 14, 2025.






