# § 19.264   Claims on spirits returned to bonded premises—specific requirements.

(a) *General.* Section 5215(a) of the IRC allows for the return of tax paid or tax determined spirits to the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant under certain conditions. In addition, section 5008(c) of the IRC allows a proprietor to file a claim for credit or refund of tax on the spirits returned to bonded premises under section 5215(a). For information on allowable returns see subpart Q of this part.


(b) *Claims for credit or refund.* A claim for credit or refund of tax on spirits returned to bonded premises under section 5215(a) must include the following information:


(1) Quantity of spirits so returned;


(2) Amount of tax for which the claim is filed;


(3) Name, address, and plant number of the plant to which the spirits were returned and the date of the return;


(4) The purpose for which the spirits were returned; and


(5) The serial number of the gauge record for the returned spirits.


(c) *Puerto Rican and Virgin Islands spirits and imported rum.* If the alcoholic content of the spirits contain at least 92 percent Puerto Rican or Virgin Islands rum, or if the spirits contain rum imported from any area other than Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, the claim must show:


(1) Proof gallons of the finished product derived from Puerto Rican or Virgin Islands spirits, or derived from rum imported from any other area; and


(2) The amount of tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652 or 26 U.S.C. 5001, determined at the time of withdrawal from bond, on the Puerto Rican or Virgin Islands spirits, or on the rum imported from any other area, contained in the product.


(d) *Products subject to 26 U.S.C. 5010 tax credits.* A claim for credit or refund of tax on spirits containing eligible wine or eligible flavors must include the date and serial number of the record of tax determination and the effective tax rate at which the tax was paid or determined. If this information is not provided, the amount of tax claimed will be based on the lowest effective tax rate applied to the product.


(e) *Limits on claims.* Claims for credit or refund of tax must be filed by the proprietor of the plant to which the spirits were returned. The claim must be filed within six months of the date of the return. No interest is allowed on any claims for refund or credit.


