# § 641.710   How are the performance measures defined?

The core measures are defined as follows:


(a) “Hours of community service employment” is defined as the total number of hours of community service provided by SCSEP participants divided by the number of hours of community service funded by the grantee's grant, after adjusting for differences in minimum wage among the States and areas. Paid training hours are excluded from this measure.


(b) “The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: The number of participants who exited during the reporting period who are employed in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the exit quarter divided by the number of participants who exited during the reporting period multiplied by 100.


(c) “The percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: The number of participants who exited during the reporting period who are employed in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after the exit quarter divided by the number of participants who exited during the reporting period multiplied by 100.


(d) “The median earnings of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project” is defined by the formula: For all participants who exited and are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the exit quarter: The wage that is at the midpoint (of all the wages) between the highest and lowest wage earned in the second quarter after the exit quarter.


(e) “Indicators of effectiveness in serving employers, host agencies, and project participants” is defined as the combined results of customer assessments of the services received by each of these three customer groups.


(f) “The number of eligible individuals served” is defined as the total number of participants served divided by a grantee's authorized number of positions, after adjusting for differences in minimum wage among the States and areas.


(g) “Most-in-need” or the number of participating individuals described in OAA sec. 518(a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) is defined by counting the total number of the following characteristics for all participants and dividing by the number of participants served. Participants are characterized as most-in-need if they:


(1) Have a severe disability;


(2) Are frail;


(3) Are age 75 or older;


(4) Meet the eligibility requirements related to age for, but do not receive, benefits under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 *et seq.*);


(5) Live in an area with persistent unemployment and are individuals with severely limited employment prospects;


(6) Have limited English proficiency;


(7) Have low literacy skills;


(8) Have a disability;


(9) Reside in a rural area;


(10) Are veterans;


(11) Have low employment prospects;


(12) Have failed to find employment after utilizing services provided under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act;


(13) Are homeless or at risk for homelessness; or


(14) Are formerly incarcerated individuals as defined in § 641.140.



---

[N] [75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 8190, Feb. 14, 2022]










