# § 51.1860   Color classification.

(a) The following terms may be used, when specified in connection with the grade statement, in describing the color as an indication of the stage of ripeness of any lot of mature tomatoes of a red fleshed variety:


(1) *Green.* “Green” means that the surface of the tomato is completely green in color. The shade of green color may vary from light to dark;


(2) *Breakers.* “Breakers” means that there is a definite break in color from green to tannish-yellow, pink or red on not more than 10 percent of the surface;


(3) *Turning.* “Turning” means that more than 10 percent but not more than 30 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows a definite change in color from green to tannish-yellow, pink, red, or a combination thereof;


(4) *Pink.* “Pink” means that more than 30 percent but not more than 60 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows pink or red color;


(5) *Light red.* “Light red” means that more than 60 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows pinkish-red or red: *Provided,* That not more than 90 percent of the surface is red color; and,


(6) *Red.* “Red” means that more than 90 percent of the surface, in the aggregate, shows red color.


(b) Any lot of tomatoes which does not meet the requirements of any of the above color designations may be designated as “Mixed Color”.


(c) For tolerances see § 51.1861.


(d) Tomato color standards U.S.D.A. Visual Aid TM—L—1 consists of a chart containing twelve color photographs illustrating the color classification requirements, as set forth in this section. This visual aid may be examined in the Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, U.S. Department of Agriculture, South Building, Washington, D.C. 20250; in any field office of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Inspection Service; or upon request of any authorized inspector of such Service. Duplicates of this visual aid may be purchased from The John Henry Co., Post Office Box 1410, Lansing, Michigan 48904.



---

[N] [38 FR 23932, Sept. 5, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 2791, Jan. 16, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]




