# § 1.907(a)-0   Introduction (for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1982).

(a) *Effective dates.* The provisions of §§ 1.907(a)-0 through 1.907(f)-1 apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1982. For provisions that apply to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1983, see §§ 1.907(a)-0A through 1.907(f)-1A.


(b) *Key terms.* For purposes of the regulations under section 907—


(1) *FOGEI* means foreign oil and gas extraction income.


(2) *FORI* means foreign oil related income.


(3) *FOGEI taxes* mean foreign oil and gas extraction taxes as defined in section 907(c)(5).


(4) *FORI taxes* means foreign taxes on foreign oil related income. See § 1.907(c)-3.


(c) *FOGEI tax limitation.* Section 907(a) limits the foreign tax credit for taxes paid or accrued on FOGEI. See § 1.907(a)-1.


(d) *Reduction of creditable FORI taxes.* Section 907(b) recharacterizes FORI taxes as non-creditable deductible expenses to the extent that the foreign law imposing the FORI taxes is structured, or in fact operates, so that the amount of tax imposed with respect to FORI will be materially greater, over a reasonable period of time, than the amount generally imposed on income that is neither FOGEI nor FORI. See § 1.907(b)-1.


(e) *FOGEI and FORI.* FOGEI includes the taxable income from the extraction of minerals from oil or gas wells by a taxpayer (or another person) and from the sale or exchange of assets used in the extraction business. FORI includes taxable income from the activities of processing oil and gas into their primary products, transporting or distributing oil and gas and their primary products, and from the disposition of assets used in these activities. For this purpose, a disposition includes only a sale or exchange. FOGEI and FORI may also include taxable income from the performance of related services or from the lease of related property and certain dividends, interest, or amounts described in section 951(a). See §§ 1.907(c)-1 through 1.907(c)-3.


(f) *Posted prices.* Certain sales prices are disregarded when computing FOGEI for purposes of chapter 1 of the Code. See § 1.907(d)-1.


(g) *Transitional rules.* Section 907(e) provides rules for the carryover of unused FOGEI taxes from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1983, and carryback of FOGEI taxes arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1982. See § 1.907(e)-1.


(h) *Section 907(f) carrybacks and carryovers.* FOGEI taxes disallowed under section 907(a) may be carried back or forward to other taxable years. These FOGEI taxes may be absorbed in another taxable year to the extent of the lesser of the separate excess extraction limitation or the excess limitation in the general limitation category (section 904(d)(1)(I)) for the carryback or carryover year. See § 1.907(f)-1.


(i) *Statutes covered.* The regulations under section 907 are issued as a result of the enactment of section 601 of the Tax Reduction Act of 1975, of section 1035 of the Tax Reform Act of 1976, of section 301(b)(14) of the Revenue Act of 1978, of section 211 of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 and of section 1012(g)(6) (A)-(B) of the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988.



---

[N] [T.D. 8338, 56 FR 11065, Mar. 15, 1991]




