# § 147A.11   Person in charge of fumigation; before fumigation.

(a) The person in charge of fumigation shall notify the person in charge of the vessel of:


(1) The space that is to be fumigated; 


(2) The name, address, and emergency telephone number of the fumigation company; 


(3) The dates and times of fumigation; 


(4) The characteristics of the fumigant; 


(5) The spaces that are determined to be safe for occupancy paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; 


(6) The maximum allowable concentration of fumigant in spaces, if any, that are determined to be safe for occupancy under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; 


(7) The symptoms of exposure to the fumigant; and 


(8) Emergency first aid treatment for exposure to the fumigant. 


(b) The person in charge of fumigation shall ensure that:


(1) A marine chemist or other qualified person who has knowledge of and experience in shipboard fumigation evaluates the vessel's construction and configuration and determines:


(i) Which spaces, if any, are safe for occupancy during fumigation; and 


(ii) The intervals that inspections must be made under § 147A.21(a)(1); 


(2) No persons or domestic animals are in the space that is to be fumigated or the spaces that are designated as unsafe for occupancy under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; 


(3) There is proper and secure sealing to confine the fumigant to the space that is to be fumigated, including blanking off and sealing any ventilation ducts and smoke detectors; 


(4) The personal protection and fumigation detection equipment for the fumigant that is to be used is on board the vessel; 


(5) Warning signs are:


(i) Posted upon all gangplanks, ladders, and other points of access to the vessel; 


(ii) Posted on all entrances to the spaces that are designated as unsafe for occupancy under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and 


(iii) In accordance with 49 CFR 173.9(c) or section 8.10 of the *General Introduction of the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code.* The word “unit” on the warning sign may be replaced with “vessel,” “barge,” “hold,” or “space,” as appropriate. 


(6) Watchmen are stationed at all entrances to:


(i) Spaces that are not determined to be safe for occupancy under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; or 


(ii) The vessel, if no spaces are determined to be safe for occupancy under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. 



---

[N] [CGD 74-144, 39 FR 32998, Sept. 13, 1974; 39 FR 37771, Oct. 24, 19745; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50731, Sept. 27, 1996; CGD 97-057, 62 FR 51048, Sept. 30, 1997]




