# ยง 708.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) The regulations in this part provide the procedure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR 550.1101 through 550.1110 for the collection by administrative offset of a Federal employee's salary without his or her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the Federal government. This procedure applies to all Federal employees who owe debts to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights (Commission). This provision does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his or her current pay account. 


(b) This procedure does not apply to debts or claims arising under: 


(1) The Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*); 


(2) The Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*); 


(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or 


(4) To any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (*e.g.,* travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108). 


(c) The Commission shall except from salary offset provisions any adjustments to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits programs requiring periodic payroll deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. 


(d) These procedures do not preclude an employee or former employee from requesting a waiver of a salary overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584 or 10 U.S.C. 2774 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office (GAO) in accordance with procedures prescribed by the GAO. In addition, this procedure does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected. 




