# § 148.12   Definitions.

*Agency.* Any “executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105; any “Military department” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; and any other entity within the Executive Branch that comes into possession of classified information.


*Classified Information.* All information that requires protection under Executive Order 12958, or any of its antecedent orders, and the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.


*Cognizant Security Agency (CSA).* Those agencies that have been authorized by Executive Order 12829 to establish an industrial security program for the purpose of safeguarding classified information disclosed or released to industry.


*Cognizant Security Office (CSO).* The office or offices delegated by the head of a CSA to administer industrial security in a contractor's facility on behalf of the CSA.


*Facility.* An activity of a government agency or cleared contractor authorized by appropriate authority to conduct classified operations or to perform classified work.


*Industry.* Contractors, licensees, grantees, and certificate holders obligated by contract or other written agreement to protect classified information under the National Industrial Security Program.


*National Security.* The national defense and foreign relations of the United States.


*Senior Agency Official.* Those officials, pursuant to Executive Order 12958, designated by the agency head who are assigned the responsibility to direct and administer the agency's information security program.




