# ยง 19.223   Persons liable for tax.

(a) *Distilling.* Under 26 U.S.C. 5005, the distiller of spirits is liable for the tax and each proprietor or possessor of, and person in any manner interested in the use of, any still, distilling apparatus, or distillery, shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax on distilled spirits produced. However, a person, not an officer or director of a corporate proprietor, owning or having the right of control of not more than 10 percent of any class of stock of that proprietor, is not liable by reason of the stock ownership or control. Persons transferring spirits in bond are relieved of tax liability if:


(1) The proprietors of transferring and receiving distilled spirits plant premises are independent of each other and neither has a proprietary interest, directly or indirectly, in the business of the other, and


(2) No person liable for the tax on transferred spirits retains any interest in the spirits.


(b) *Storage on bonded premises.* Under 26 U.S.C. 5005(c) each person operating bonded premises will be liable for the tax on all spirits while the spirits are stored on the premises, and on all spirits that are in transit to the premises from the time of removal from the transferor's bonded premises, pursuant to an approved application. Liability for the tax continues until the spirits are transferred or withdrawn from bonded premises as authorized by law, or until the liability for tax is relieved under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 5008(a). Claims for relief from liability for spirits lost are covered in subpart J of this part. Voluntary destruction of spirits in bond is covered in subpart Q of this part.


(c) *Withdrawals without payment of tax.* Under 26 U.S.C. 5005(e), any person who withdraws spirits from the bonded premises of a plant without payment of tax, as provided in 26 U.S.C. 5214, will be liable for the tax on the spirits from the time of withdrawal. The person will be relieved of any liability at the time the spirits are exported, deposited in a foreign trade zone, used in production of wine, deposited in a customs bonded warehouse, laden as supplies upon or used in the maintenance or repair of certain vessels or aircraft, or used for certain research, development or testing, as provided by law.


(d) *Withdrawals free of tax.* Persons liable for tax under paragraph (a) of this section, are relieved of the liability on spirits withdrawn from bonded premises free of tax under this part, at the time the spirits are withdrawn.


(e) *Withdrawn from customs custody without payment of tax.* Under 26 U.S.C. 5232(a) when imported distilled spirits in bulk containers are withdrawn from customs custody and transferred to the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant without payment of the tax imposed on imported distilled spirits by 26 U.S.C. 5001, the person operating the bonded premises of the distilled spirits plant to which spirits are transferred will become liable for the tax on the spirits upon their release from customs custody, and the importer will thereupon be relieved of liability for the tax.


