# ยง 1485.13   Application process.

(a) *General application requirements.* CCC will periodically announce through a NOFO that it is accepting applications for participation in the MAP for a specified program year. This announcement will be posted on the U.S. Government website for grant opportunities. Applications shall be submitted in accordance with the terms and requirements specified in the announcement and in this part. Currently, applicants are encouraged to submit applications through the UES system but are not required to do so. Applicants may apply to conduct a generic promotion program and/or a brand promotion program that provides MAP funds to brand participants for branded promotion. An applicant that is a U.S. agricultural cooperative may also apply for funds to conduct its own brand promotion program.


(b) *Universal identifier and System for Award Management (SAM).* In accordance with 2 CFR part 25, each entity that applies to the MAP program and does not qualify for an exemption under 2 CFR 25.110 must:


(1) Be registered in the SAM prior to submitting an application or plan;


(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by CCC; and


(3) Provide its DUNS number, or a unique identifier designated as a DUNS replacement, in each application or plan it submits to CCC.


(c) *Reporting subaward and executive compensation information.* In accordance with 2 CFR part 170, each entity that applies to the MAP program and does not qualify for an exception under 2 CFR 170.110(b) must ensure it has the necessary processes and systems in place to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of 2 CFR part 170 should it receive MAP funding.




