# § 49.4251-4   Prepaid telephone cards.

(a) *In general.* In the case of communications services acquired by means of a prepaid telephone card (PTC), the face amount of the PTC is treated as an amount paid for communications services and that amount is treated as paid when the PTC is transferred by any carrier to any person that is not a carrier. This section provides rules for the application of the section 4251 tax to PTCs.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section:


*Carrier* means a telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153.


*Comparable PTC* means a currently available dollar card or tariffed unit card (other than a PTC transferred in bulk or under special circumstances, such as for promotional purposes) that provides the same type and amount of communications services as the PTC to which it is being compared.


*Dollar card* means a PTC the value of which is designated by the carrier in dollars (even if also designated in units of service), provided that the designated value is not less than the amount for which the PTC is expected to be sold to a holder.


*Holder* means a person that purchases other than for resale.


*Prepaid telephone card (PTC)* means a card or similar arrangement that permits its holder to obtain a fixed amount of communications services by means of a code (such as a personal identification number (PIN)) or other access device provided by the carrier and to pay for those services in advance.


*Tariff* means a schedule of rates and regulations filed by a carrier with the Federal Communications Commission.


*Tariffed unit card* means a unit card that is transferred by a carrier—


(1) To a holder at a price that does not exceed the designated number of units on the PTC multiplied by the carrier's tariffed price per unit; or


(2) To a transferee reseller subject to a contractual or other arrangement under which the price at which the PTC is sold to a holder will not exceed the designated number of units on the PTC multiplied by the carrier's tariffed price per unit.


*Transferee* means the first person that is not a carrier to whom a PTC is transferred by a carrier.


*Transferee reseller* means a transferee that purchases a PTC for resale.


*Unit card* means a PTC other than a dollar card.


*Untariffed unit card* means a unit card other than a tariffed unit card.


(c) *Determination of face amount*—(1) *Dollar card.* The face amount of a dollar card is the designated dollar value.


(2) *Tariffed unit card.* The face amount of a tariffed unit card is the designated number of units on the PTC multiplied by the tariffed price per unit.


(3) *Untariffed unit card*—(i) *Transfer to holder.* The face amount of an untariffed unit card transferred by a carrier to a holder is the amount for which the carrier sells the PTC to the holder.


(ii) *Transfer to transferee reseller*—(A) *In general.* The face amount of an untariffed unit card transferred by a carrier to a transferee reseller is at the option of the carrier—


(*1*) The highest amount for which the carrier sells a PTC that provides the same type and amount of communications services to a holder that ordinarily would not be expected to buy more than one such PTC at a time (if the carrier makes such sales on a regular and arm's-length basis) or the face amount of a comparable PTC (if the carrier does not make such sales on a regular and arm's-length basis);


(*2*) 135 percent of the amount for which the carrier sells the PTC to the transferee reseller (including in that amount, in addition to any sum certain fixed at the time of the sale, any contingent amount per unit multiplied by the designated number of units on the PTC); or


(*3*) If the PTC is of a type that ordinarily is used entirely for domestic communications service, the maximum number of minutes of domestic communications service on the PTC multiplied by the applicable rate.


(B) *Applicable rate.* The applicable rate under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A)(*3*) of this section with respect to a PTC is $0.30 reduced (but not below $0.20) by $0.01 for each full 20 minutes by which the maximum number of minutes of domestic communications service on the PTC exceeds 40 minutes.


(C) *Sales not at arm's length.* In the case of a transfer of an untariffed unit card by a carrier to a transferee reseller otherwise than through an arm's-length transaction, the fair market retail value of the PTC shall be substituted for the amount determined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section.


(4) *Exclusion.* The amount of any state or local tax imposed on the furnishing or sale of communications services that is separately stated in the bill or on the face of the PTC and the amount of any section 4251 tax separately stated in the bill or on the face of the PTC are disregarded in determining, for purposes of this paragraph (c), the amount for which a PTC is sold.


(d) *Liability for tax*—(1) *In general.* Under section 4251(d), the section 4251(a) tax is imposed on the transfer of a PTC by a carrier to a transferee. The person liable for the tax is the transferee. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the person responsible for collecting the tax is the carrier transferring the PTC to the transferee. If a holder purchases a PTC from a transferee reseller, the amount the holder pays for the PTC is not treated as an amount paid for communications services and thus tax is not imposed on that payment.


(2) *Effect of statement that purchaser is a carrier*—(i) *On transferor.* A carrier that transfers a PTC to a purchaser is not responsible for collecting the tax if, at the time of transfer, the transferor carrier has received written notification from the purchaser that the purchaser is a carrier, and the transferor has no reason to believe otherwise. The notification to be provided by the purchaser is a statement, signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to bind the purchaser, that the purchaser is a carrier (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section). The statement is not required to take any particular form.


(ii) *On purchaser.* If a purchaser that is not a carrier provides the notification described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section to the carrier that transfers a PTC, the purchaser remains liable for the tax imposed on the transfer of the PTC.


(3) *Exemptions.* Any exemptions available under section 4253 apply to the transfer of a PTC from a carrier to a holder. Section 4253 does not apply to the transfer of a PTC from a carrier to a transferee reseller.


(e) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section: 


(f) *Effective date.* This section is applicable with respect to PTCs transferred by a carrier on or after the first day of the first calendar quarter beginning after January 7, 2000.



---

[N] [T.D. 8855, 64 FR 1057, Jan. 7, 2000; 65 FR 10153, Feb. 25, 2000]




