# § 328.3   Signs within institution premises and offering of non-deposit products within institution premises.

(a) *Scope.* This section governs signage within the premises of insured depository institutions and the offering of non-deposit products within the premises of insured depository institutions.


(b) *Display of official sign.* Each insured depository institution must continuously, clearly, and conspicuously display the official sign at each place of business where consumers have access to or transact with deposits, including all of its branches (except branches excluded from the scope of this subpart under § 328.0) and other premises in which customers have access to or transact with deposits, in the manner described in this paragraph (b).


(1) *Deposits received at teller windows or stations.* If insured deposits are usually and normally received at teller windows or stations, the insured depository institution must display the official sign:


(i) At each teller window or station where insured deposits are usually and normally received, in a size of 7″ by 3″ or larger with black lettering on a gold background as described in § 328.2(a); or


(ii) If the insured depository institution does not offer non-deposit products on the premises, at one or more locations visible from the teller windows or stations in a manner that ensures a copy of the official sign is large enough so as to be legible from anywhere in that area.


(2) *Deposits received in areas other than teller windows or stations.* If insured deposits are usually and normally received in areas of the premises other than teller windows or stations, the insured depository institution must display the official sign in one or more locations in a manner that ensures a copy of the official sign is large enough so as to be legible from anywhere in those areas.


(3) *Other locations within the premises.* An insured depository institution may display the official sign in locations at the institution other than those required by this section, except for areas where non-deposit products are offered.


(4) *Varied signs.* An insured depository institution may display signs that vary from the official sign in size, color, or material at any location where display of the official sign is required or permitted under this paragraph. However, any such varied sign that is displayed in locations where display of the official sign is required must not be smaller in size than the official sign, must have the same color for the text and graphics, and includes the same content.


(5) *Newly insured institutions.* An insured depository institution shall display the official sign as described in this section no later than its twenty-first calendar day of operation as an insured depository institution, unless the institution promptly requested the official sign from the Corporation but did not receive it before that date.


(c) *Non-deposit products offered on insured depository institution premises*—


(1) *Segregated areas.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if non-deposit products are offered within the premises, those products must be physically segregated from areas where insured deposits are usually and normally accepted. The institution must identify areas where activities related to the sale of non-deposit products occur and clearly delineate and distinguish those areas from the areas where insured deposit-taking activities occur.


(2) *Non-deposit signage.* At each location within the premises where non-deposit products are offered, an insured depository institution must continuously, clearly, and conspicuously display signage indicating that the non-deposit products: are not insured by the FDIC; are not deposits; and may lose value. Such signage may not be displayed in close proximity to the official sign.


(3) *Physical area limitations.* In limited situations where physical considerations present challenges to offering non-deposit products in a distinct area, an institution must take prudent and reasonable steps to minimize customer confusion.


(d) *Electronic media.* Insured depository institutions may use electronic media to display the official sign and non-deposit sign required by this section.






