# ยง 761.10   Definitions.

The definitions *Department, HUD,* and *Public Housing Agency (PHA)* are defined in part 5 of this title.


*Controlled substance* shall have the meaning provided in section 102 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 802). 


*Drug intervention* means a process to identify assisted housing or public housing resident drug users, to assist them in modifying their behavior, and/or to refer them to drug treatment to reduce or eliminate drug abuse. 


*Drug prevention* means a process to provide goods and services designed to alter factors, including activities, environmental influences, risks, and expectations, that lead to drug abuse. 


*Drug-related and violent crime* shall have the meaning provided in 42 U.S.C. 11905(2). 


*Drug treatment* means a program for the residents of an applicant's development that strives to end drug abuse and to eliminate its negative effects through rehabilitation and relapse prevention. 


*Federally assisted low-income housing,* or *assisted housing,* shall have the meaning provided in 42 U.S.C. 11905(4). However, sections 221(d)(3) and 221(d)(4) market rate projects with tenant-based assistance contracts and section 8 projects with tenant-based assistance are not considered federally assisted low-income housing and are not eligible for funding under this part 761. 


*Governmental jurisdiction* means the unit of general local government, State, or area of operation of an Indian tribe in which the housing development administered by the applicant is located. 


*In and around* means within, or adjacent to, the physical boundaries of a housing development. 


*Indian tribe* means any tribe, band, pueblo, group, community, or nation of Indians, or Alaska Natives. 


*Local law enforcement agency* means a police department, sheriff's office, or other entity of the governmental jurisdiction that has law enforcement responsibilities for the community at large, including the housing developments owned or administered by the applicant. In Indian jurisdictions, this includes tribal prosecutors that assume law enforcement functions analogous to a police department or the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA). More than one law enforcement agency may have these responsibilities for the jurisdiction that includes the applicant's developments. 


*Problems associated with drug-related and violent crime* means the negative physical, social, educational, and economic impact of drug-related and violent crime on assisted housing residents or public and Indian housing residents, and the deterioration of the assisted housing or public and Indian housing environment because of drug-related and violent crime. 


*Program income* means gross income received by a grantee and directly generated from the use of program funds. When program income is generated by an activity only partially assisted with program funds, the income shall be prorated to reflect the percentage of program funds used. 


*Recipient of assistance under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA recipient)* shall have the same meaning as *recipient* provided in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 *et seq.*).


*Resident council (RC),* for purposes of the Public Housing Program, means an incorporated or unincorporated nonprofit organization or association that meets each of the following requirements: 


(1) It must be representative of the residents it purports to represent; 


(2) It may represent residents in more than one development or in all of the developments of a HA, but it must fairly represent residents from each development that it represents; 


(3) It must adopt written procedures providing for the election of specific officers on a regular basis (but at least once every three years); and 


(4) It must have a democratically elected governing board. The voting membership of the board must consist of residents of the development or developments that the resident organization or resident council represents. 


*Resident Management Corporation (RMC),* for purposes of the Public Housing Program, means the entity that proposes to enter into, or that enters into, a management contract with a PHA under part 964 of this title in accordance with the requirements of that part.


*State* means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public or Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 *note*). 


*Unit of general local government* means any city, county, town, municipality, township, parish, village, local public authority (including any public or Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937) or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. 



---

[N] [61 FR 13987, Mar. 28, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 49918, Sept. 14, 1999]




