# § 68.502   Labeling, warranty, instructions, and notice of revocation of approval.

(a) *Labeling*—(1) *Hearing aid compatible equipment.* All ACS telephonic CPE manufactured in the United States (other than for export) or imported for use in the United States after February 28, 2020, that is hearing aid compatible, as defined in §§ 68.316 and 68.317, shall have the letters “HAC” permanently affixed thereto. “Permanently affixed” means that the label is etched, engraved, stamped, silkscreened, indelibly printed, or otherwise permanently marked on a permanently attached part of the equipment or on a nameplate of metal, plastic, or other material fastened to the equipment by welding, riveting, or a permanent adhesive. The label must be designed to last the expected lifetime of the equipment in the environment in which the equipment may be operated and must not be readily detachable.


(2) *Non-hearing aid compatible equipment.* Non-hearing aid compatible ACS telephonic CPE offered for sale to the public on or after February 28, 2020, shall contain in a conspicuous location on the surface of its packaging a statement that the ACS telephonic CPE is not hearing aid compatible, as defined in §§ 68.4(a)(3), 68.316, 68.317, or if offered for sale without a surrounding package, shall be affixed with a written statement that the telephone is not hearing aid compatible, as defined in §§ 68.4(a)(3), 68.316 and 68.317; and be accompanied by instructions in accordance with § 68.218(b)(2).


(b) *Warranty.* In acquiring approval for equipment to be labeled and otherwise represented to be hearing aid compatible, the responsible party warrants that each item of equipment marketed under such authorization will comply with all applicable rules and regulations of this part and with the applicable technical criteria.


(c) *Instructions.* The responsible party or its agent shall provide the user of the approved ACS telephonic CPE the following:


(1) Any consumer instructions required to be included with approved ACS telephonic CPE by the Administrative Council for Terminal Attachments;


(2) For ACS telephonic CPE that is not hearing aid compatible, as defined in § 68.316:


(i) Notice that FCC rules prohibit the use of that handset in certain locations; and


(ii) A list of such locations (*see* § 68.112).


(d) *Notice of revocation.* When approval is revoked for any item of equipment, the responsible party must take all reasonable steps to ensure that purchasers and users of such equipment are notified to discontinue use of such equipment.




