# § 86.000-2   Definitions.

The definitions of § 86.098-2 continue to apply to 1998 and later model year vehicles. The definitions listed in this section apply beginning with the 2000 model year.


*AC1* means a test procedure as described in § 86.162-00 which simulates testing with air conditioning operating in an environmental test cell by adding the air conditioning compressor load to the normal dynamometer forces.


*AC2* means a test procedure as described in § 86.162-00 which simulates testing with air conditioning operating in an environmental test cell by adding a heat load to the passenger compartment.


*Alternative fuels* means any fuel other than gasoline and diesel fuels, such as methanol, ethanol, and gaseous fuels.


*866 Cycle* means the test cycle that consists of the last 866 seconds (seconds 505 to 1372) of the EPA Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule, described in § 86.115-00 and listed in appendix I, paragraph (a), of this part.


*Environmental test cell* means a test cell capable of wind-speed, solar thermal load, ambient temperature, and humidity control or simulation which meets the requirements of § 86.161-00 for running emission tests with the air conditioning operating.


*Federal Test Procedure, or FTP* means the test procedure as described in § 86.130-00 (a) through (d) and (f) which is designed to measure urban driving tail pipe exhaust emissions and evaporative emissions over the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule as described in appendix I to this part.


*505 Cycle* means the test cycle that consists of the first 505 seconds (seconds 1 to 505) of the EPA Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule, described in § 86.115-00 and listed in appendix I, paragraph (a), of this part.


*SC03* means the test cycle, described in § 86.160-00 and listed in appendix I, paragraph (h), of this part, which is designed to represent driving immediately following startup.


*Supplemental FTP, or SFTP* means the additional test procedures designed to measure emissions during aggressive and microtransient driving, as described in § 86.159-00 over the US06 cycle, and also the test procedure designed to measure urban driving emissions while the vehicle's air conditioning system is operating, as described in § 86.160-00 over the SC03 cycle.


*US06* means the test cycle, described in § 86.159-00 and listed in appendix I, paragraph (g), of this part, which is designed to evaluate emissions during aggressive and microtransient driving.



---

[N] [61 FR 54878, Oct. 22, 1996]




