# § 101.10   Centers of Excellence and Expertise.

(a) *Center Management Offices*. The Centers of Excellence and Expertise (Centers) (see definition in § 101.1) are managed out of the following locations:


(b) *Assignment of importers to the Centers*. Generally, each importer will be assigned to an industry-category administered by a specific Center based on the tariff classification in the HTSUS of the predominant number of goods imported. The list of HTSUS numbers that will be used by CBP for the importer's placement in a Center is the same list of HTSUS numbers that are referenced in the definition for Centers (see § 101.1). Factors that may cause CBP to place an importer in a Center not based on the tariff classification of the predominant number of goods imported include the importer's associated business practices within an industry, the intended use of the predominant number of goods imported, or the high relative value of goods imported.


(c) *Appeal of Center assignment.* An importer may appeal the Center assignment at any time by submitting a written appeal, with a subject line identifier reading “Appeal Regarding Center Assignment”, to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Office of Field Operations, Executive Director, Cargo and Conveyance Security (CCS), 1300 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Suite 2.3D, Washington, DC 20229-1015 or by email to *CEE@cbp.dhs.gov*. Appeals must include the following information:


(1) Current Center assignment;


(2) Preferred Center assignment;


(3) All affected Importer of Record (IOR) numbers and associated bond numbers;


(4) Written justification for the change in Center assignments; and


(5) Import data:


(i) *For new importers.* Projected importations at the four (4) digit HTSUS heading level during the current year; or


(ii) *For importers with less than one year of prior import history.* Projected importations and prior import data with entry summary lines and value at the four (4) digit HTSUS heading level; or


(iii) *For importers with more than one year of prior import history.* One year of prior import data with entry summary lines and value at the four (4) digit HTSUS heading level.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 16-26, 81 FR 93016, Dec. 20, 2016]




