# § 228.4   Procedures for designation of sites.

(a) *General Permits.* Geographical areas or regions within which materials may be dumped under a general permit will be published as part of the promulgation of each general permit. 


(b) *Special permits.* Areas where ocean dumping is permitted subject to the specific conditions of individual special permits, will be designated by promulgation in this part 228, and such designation will be made based on environmental studies of each site, regions adjacent to the site, and on historical knowledge of the impact of waste disposal on areas similar to such sites in physical, chemical, and biological characteristics. All studies for the evaluation and potential selection of dumping sites will be conducted in accordance with the requirements of §§ 228.5 and 228.6. The Administrator may, from time to time, designate specific locations for temporary use for disposal of small amounts of materials under a special permit only without disposal site designation studies when such materials satisfy the Criteria and the Administrator determines that the quantities to be disposed of at such sites will not result in significant impact on the environment. Such designations will be done by promulgation in this part 228, and will be for a specified period of time and for specified quantities of materials. 


(c) *Emergency Permits.* Dumping sites for materials disposed of under an emergency permit will be specified by the Administrator as a permit condition and will be based on an individual appraisal of the characteristics of the waste and the safest means for its disposal. 


(d) *Research Permits.* Dumping sites for research permits will be determined by the nature of the proposed study. Dumping sites will be specified by the Administrator as a permit condition. 


(e) *Dredged Material Permits.* (1) Areas where ocean dumping of dredged material is permitted subject to the specific conditions of Dredged Material permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will be designated by EPA promulgation in this part 228, and such designation will be made based on environmental studies of each site, regions adjacent to the site, and on historical knowledge of the impact of dredged material disposal on areas similar to such sites in physical, chemical, and biological characteristics. All studies for the evaluation and potential selection of dredged material disposal sites will be conducted in accordance with the appropriate requirements of §§ 228.5 and 228.6, except that: 


(i) Baseline or trend assessment requirements may be developed on a case-by-case basis from the results of research, including that now in progress by the Corps of Engineers. 


(ii) An environmental impact assessment for all sites within a particular geographic area may be prepared based on complete disposal site designation or evaluation studies on a typical site or sites in that area. In such cases, sufficient studies to demonstrate the generic similarity of all sites within such a geographic area will be conducted. 


(2) In those cases where a recommended disposal site has not been designated by the Administrator, or where it is not feasible to utilize a recommended disposal site that has been designated by the Administrator, the District Engineer shall, in consultation with EPA, select a site in accordance with the requirements of §§ 228.5 and 228.6(a). Concurrence by EPA in permits issued for the use of such site for the dumping of dredged material at the site will constitute EPA approval of the use of the site for dredged material disposal only. 


(3) Sites designated for the ocean dumping of dredged material in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (e) (1) or (2) of this section shall be used only for the ocean dumping of dredged material under permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 



---

[N] [42 FR 2482, Jan. 11, 1977, as amended at 73 FR 74987, Dec. 10, 2008]




