# § 423.46   Late enrollment penalty.

(a) *General.* A Part D eligible individual must pay the late penalty described under § 423.286(d)(3), except as described at § 423.780(e), if there is a continuous period of 63 days or longer at any time after the end of the individual's initial enrollment period during which the individual meets all of the following conditions:


(1) The individual was eligible to enroll in a Part D plan;


(2) The individual was not covered under any creditable prescription drug coverage; and


(3) The individual was not enrolled in a Part D plan.


(b) *Role of Part D plan in determination of the penalty.* Part D sponsors must obtain information on prior creditable coverage from all enrolled or enrolling beneficiaries and report this information to CMS in a form and manner determined by CMS.


(c) *Reconsideration.* Individuals determined to be subject to a late enrollment penalty may request reconsideration of this determination, consistent with § 423.56(g) of this part. Such review will be conducted by CMS, or an independent review entity contracted by CMS, in accordance with guidance issued by CMS. Decisions made through this review are not subject to appeal, but may be reviewed and revised at the discretion of CMS.


(d) *Record retention.* Part D plan sponsors must retain all information collected concerning a creditable coverage period determination in accordance with the enrollment records retention requirements described in § 423.505(e)(1)(iii).



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 54251, Sept. 18, 2008; 74 FR 1543, Jan. 12, 2009]




