# § 25.2   Definitions.

*Act of Terrorism*—The term “Act of Terrorism” means any act determined to have met the following requirements or such other requirements as defined and specified by the Secretary:


(1) Is unlawful;


(2) Causes harm, including financial harm, to a person, property, or entity, in the United States, or in the case of a domestic United States air carrier or a United States-flag vessel (or a vessel based principally in the United States on which United States income tax is paid and whose insurance coverage is subject to regulation in the United States), in or outside the United States; and


(3) Uses or attempts to use instrumentalities, weapons or other methods designed or intended to cause mass destruction, injury or other loss to citizens or institutions of the United States.


*Certification*—The term “Certification” means (unless the context requires otherwise) the certification issued pursuant to section 25.9 that a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology for which a Designation has been issued will perform as intended, conforms to the Seller's specifications, and is safe for use as intended.


*Contractor*—The term “contractor” means any person, firm, or other entity with whom or with which a Seller has a contract or contractual arrangement relating to the manufacture, sale, use, or operation of anti-terrorism Technology for which a Designation is issued (regardless of whether such contract is entered into before or after the issuance of such Designation), including, without limitation, an independent laboratory or other entity engaged in testing or verifying the safety, utility, performance, or effectiveness of such Technology, or the conformity of such Technology to the Seller's specifications.


*Designation*—The term “Designation” means the designation of a Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology under the SAFETY Act issued by the Under Secretary under authority delegated to the Under Secretary by the Secretary of Homeland Security.


*Loss*—The term “loss” means death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property, including business interruption loss (which is a component of loss of or damage to property).


*Noneconomic damages*—The term “noneconomic damages” means damages for losses for physical and emotional pain, suffering, inconvenience, physical impairment, mental anguish, disfigurement, loss of enjoyment of life, loss of society and companionship, loss of consortium, hedonic damages, injury to reputation, and any other nonpecuniary losses.


*Office of SAFETY Act Implementation*—The term “Office of SAFETY Act Implementation” or “OSAI” means the office within the Department of Homeland Security's Directorate of Science and Technology that assists with the implementation of the SAFETY Act. The responsibilities of the Office of SAFETY Act Implementation may include, without limitation, preparing the SAFETY Act Application Kit, receiving and facilitating the evaluation of applications, managing the SAFETY Act Web site and otherwise providing the public with information regarding the SAFETY Act and the application process.


*Physical harm*—The term “physical harm” as used in the Act and this part means any physical injury to the body, including an injury that caused, either temporarily or permanently, partial or total physical disability, incapacity or disfigurement. In no event shall physical harm include mental pain, anguish, or suffering, or fear of injury.


*Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology or QATT*—The term “Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology” or “QATT” means any Technology (including information technology) designed, developed, modified, procured, or sold for the purpose of preventing, detecting, identifying, or deterring acts of terrorism or limiting the harm such acts might otherwise cause, for which a Designation has been issued pursuant to this part.


*SAFETY Act or Act*—The term “SAFETY Act” or “Act” means the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002, sections 441-444 of title 6, United States Code.


*SAFETY Act Application Kit* —The term “SAFETY Act Application Kit” means the Application Kit containing the instructions and forms necessary to apply for Designation or Certification. The SAFETY Act Application Kit shall be published at *http://www.safetyact.gov* or made available in hard copy upon written request to: Directorate of Science and Technology, SAFETY Act/room 4320, Department of Homeland Security, Washington, DC 20528.


*SAFETY Act Confidential Information*—Any and all information and data voluntarily submitted to the Department under this part (including Applications, Pre-Applications, other forms, supporting documents and other materials relating to any of the foregoing, and responses to requests for additional information), including, but not limited to, inventions, devices, Technology, know-how, designs, copyrighted information, trade secrets, confidential business information, analyses, test and evaluation results, manuals, videotapes, contracts, letters, facsimile transmissions, electronic mail and other correspondence, financial information and projections, actuarial calculations, liability estimates, insurance quotations, and business and marketing plans. Notwithstanding the foregoing, “SAFETY Act Confidential Information” shall not include any information or data that is in the public domain or becomes part of the public domain by any means other than the violation of this section.


*Secretary*—The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Homeland Security as established by section 102 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002.


*Seller*—The term “Seller” means any person, firm, or other entity that sells or otherwise provides Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology to any customer(s) and to whom or to which (as appropriate) a Designation and/or Certification has been issued under this part (unless the context requires otherwise).


*Technology*—The term “Technology” means any product, equipment, service (including support services), device, or technology (including information technology) or any combination of the foregoing. Design services, consulting services, engineering services, software development services, software integration services, threat assessments, vulnerability studies, and other analyses relevant to homeland security may be deemed a Technology under this part.


*Under Secretary*—The term “Under Secretary” means the Under Secretary for Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security.




