# § 63.9632   What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my monitoring equipment?

(a) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack, applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) and (a)(4) through (9) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack, applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) The system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting emissions of particulate matter at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.


(2) The system must provide output of relative changes in particulate matter loadings.


(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.


(4) The system must be equipped with an alarm that will sound when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over the alarm level set point established according to paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.


(5) For each bag leak detection system, you must develop and submit to the Administrator for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. The monitoring plan shall be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications and recommendations contained in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) guidance document, “Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” (EPA-454/R-98-015) (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14). You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe all of the items in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system.


(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established.


(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures.


(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.


(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.


(6) To make the initial adjustment of the system, establish the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device. Then, establish the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).


(7) Following initial adjustment, do not adjust sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time, without approval from the Administrator except as provided for in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section. In no event may the sensitivity be increased more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates the baghouse is in good operating condition.


(i) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity or range of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(ii) [Reserved]


(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.


(9) The bag leak detector sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.


(b) For each CPMS required in § 63.9631, you must develop and make available for inspection upon request by the permitting authority a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Installation of the CPMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected emission unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device).


(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system.


(3) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, performance evaluation procedures, a schedule for performing such procedures, and acceptance criteria (*e.g.,* calibrations), as well as corrective action to be taken if a performance evaluation does not meet the acceptance criteria. If a CPMS calibration fails, the CPMS is considered to be inoperative until you take corrective action and the system passes calibration.


(4) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (3), (4)(ii), (7), and (8). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, ongoing operation and maintenance procedures and a schedule for preventative maintenance procedures, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices and in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8).


(5) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.


(6) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c)(1) through (14), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).


(7) Corrective action procedures that you will follow in the event an air pollution control device, except for a baghouse, exceeds an established operating limit as required in § 63.9600(b)(3).


(c) Unless otherwise specified, each CPMS must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Each CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period and must have valid data for at least 95 percent of every daily averaging period.


(2) Each CPMS must determine and record the daily average of all recorded readings.


(d) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.


(e) You must operate and maintain the CPMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.


(f) For each dry ESP subject to the opacity operating limit in § 63.9590(b)(3)(i), you must install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) You must install each COMS and conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to § 63.8 and Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.


(2) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, you must develop and implement a quality control program for operating and maintaining each COMS according to § 63.8. At a minimum, the quality control program must include a daily calibration drift assessment, quarterly performance audit, and annual zero alignment of each COMS. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, you must develop and implement a quality control program for operating and maintaining each COMS according to § 63.8(a) and (b), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(2) through (8), (d)(1) and (2), and (e) through (g) and Procedure 3 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60. At a minimum, the quality control program must include a daily calibration drift assessment, quarterly performance audit, and annual zero alignment of each COMS.




(3) You must operate and maintain each COMS according to § 63.8(e) and your quality control program. You must also identify periods the COMS is out of control, including any periods that the COMS fails to pass a daily calibration drift assessment, quarterly performance audit, or annual zero alignment audit.


(4) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, you must determine and record the 6-minute average opacity for periods during which the COMS is not out of control. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, you must determine and record the 6-minute average opacity for periods during which the COMS is not out of control. All COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.




(g) For each pH measurement device, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The minimum accuracy of the pH measurement device must be ±0.2 pH units.


(2) Locate the pH sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber effluent pH.


(3) Ensure the sample is properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured.


(4) Check the pH meter's calibration on at least two points every 8 hours of process operation.


(h) For each mass flow rate monitor used for measuring the sorbent or activated carbon injection rate, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, you must meet the requirements of (h)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The minimum accuracy of the mass flow rate monitor must be ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured.


(2) Locate the device in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the total sorbent injection rate.


(3) Install and calibrate the device in accordance with manufacturer's procedures and specifications.


(4) At least annually, conduct a performance evaluation of the injection rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan.




(i) For each carrier gas flow rate monitor, in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, you must meet the requirements of (i)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The minimum accuracy of the gas flow rate monitor must be ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 280 liters per minute (10 cubic feet per minute), whichever is greater.


(2) Locate the device in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the carrier gas flow rate.


(3) Install and calibrate the device in accordance with manufacturer's procedures and specifications.


(4) At least annually, conduct a performance evaluation of the carrier gas flow rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan.





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 45494, July 28, 2020; 89 FR 16432, Mar. 6, 2024]




