# § 17.31   Form, filing, and service of papers.

(a) *Form.* (1) Documents filed with Dockets Management Staff (HFA-305), Food and Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852, shall include two copies (original and redacted version) for confidential petitions. Otherwise, only one copy is necessary.


(2) The first page of every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the Office of the Chief Counsel, and designation of the pleading or paper (e.g., “motion to quash subpoena”).


(3) Every pleading shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of, the party or the person on whose behalf the pleading was filed, or his or her counsel.


(4) Pleadings or papers are considered filed when they are received by the Dockets Management Staff.


(b) *Service.* A party filing a document with the Dockets Management Staff under this part shall, no later than the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document, other than service of a complaint, shall be made by delivering a copy personally or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail or express delivery service, postage prepaid and addressed, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by counsel, service shall be made on such counsel in lieu of the actual party.


(c) *Proof of service.* A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the time and manner of service, shall be proof of service.





---

[N] [60 FR 38626, July 27, 1995, as amended at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023]




