# § 301-11.12   How does the type of lodging I select affect my reimbursement?

(a) Your agency will reimburse you for different types of lodging as follows:


(1) *Conventional lodgings (hotel/motel, boarding house, etc.).* You will be reimbursed the single occupancy rate.


(2) *Government quarters.* You will be reimbursed, as a lodging expense, the fee or service charge you pay for use of the quarters.


(3) *Lodging with friend(s) or relative(s) (with or without charge).* You may be reimbursed for additional costs your host incurs in accommodating you only if you are able to substantiate the costs and your agency determines them to be reasonable. You will not be reimbursed the cost of comparable conventional lodging in the area or a flat “token” amount.


(4) *Nonconventional lodging.* You may be reimbursed the cost of other types of lodging when there are no conventional lodging facilities in the area (e.g., in remote areas) or when conventional facilities are in short supply because of an influx of attendees at a special event (e.g., World's Fair or international sporting event). Such lodging includes college dormitories or similar facilities or rooms not offered commercially but made available to the public by area residents in their homes.


(5) *Recreational vehicle (trailer/camper).* You may be reimbursed for expenses (parking fees, fees for connection, use, and disconnection of utilities, electricity, gas, water and sewage, bath or shower fees, and dumping fees) which may be considered as a lodging cost.


(b) Your agency will not reimburse you for:


(1) *Personally-owned residence.* You will not be reimbursed for any lodging expenses for staying at your personally-owned residence or for any real estate expenses associated with the purchase or sale of a personal residence at the TDY location, except in conjunction with an authorized relocation pursuant to chapter 302 of this title.


(2) *Personally-owned recreational vehicle (trailer/camper).* You will not be reimbursed any expenses associated with the purchase, sale or payment of a recreational vehicle or camper at the TDY location.



---

[N] [76 FR 63845, Oct. 14, 2011]




