# § 2804.20   How does the BLM determine reasonable costs for Category 6 right-of-way activities?

The BLM will consider the factors in paragraph (a) of this section and § 2804.21 of this subpart to determine reasonable costs. Submit to the BLM field office having jurisdiction over the lands covered by your application a written analysis of those factors applicable to your project unless you agree in writing to waive consideration of those factors and elect to pay actual costs (see § 2804.14(f) of this subpart). Submitting your analysis with the application will expedite its handling. The BLM may require you to submit additional information in support of your position. The BLM will continue to work on your application while you are responding to our request, as long as a deposit has been received by the BLM as provided in § 2804.19(a)(4).






(a) *FLPMA factors.* If the BLM determines that a Category 6 cost recovery fee is appropriate for your project, the BLM will apply the following factors as set forth in Section 304(b) of FLPMA, 43 U.S.C. 1734(b), to determine the amount you owe:






(1) Actual costs to the Federal Government (exclusive of management overhead costs) of processing your application and of monitoring construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of a facility authorized by the right-of-way grant;


(2) Monetary value of the rights or privileges you seek;


(3) BLM's ability to process an application with maximum efficiency and minimum expense, waste, and effort;


(4) Costs incurred for the benefit of the general public interest rather than for the exclusive benefit of the applicant. That is, the costs for studies and data collection that have value to the Federal Government or the general public apart from processing the application;


(5) Any tangible improvements, such as roads, trails, and recreation facilities, which provide significant public service and are expected in connection with constructing and operating the facility;


(6) Existing agreements between the BLM and other Federal agencies for cost reimbursement associated with such application; and


(7) Other factors relevant to the reasonableness of the costs (*see* § 2804.21 of this subpart).


(b) *Fee determination.* After considering your analysis and other information, BLM will notify you in writing of what you owe. If you disagree with BLM's determination, you may appeal it under § 2801.10 of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92209, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 25961, Apr. 12, 2024]




