# ยง 63.9375   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA; in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section: 


*CAA* means the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.,* as amended by Public Law 101-549, 104 Statute 2399). 


*Area source* means any stationary source of HAP that is not a major source as defined in this part. 


*Combustion turbine engine* means a device in which air is compressed in a compressor, enters a combustion chamber, and is compressed further by the combustion of fuel injected into the combustion chamber. The hot compressed combustion gases then expand over a series of curved vanes or blades arranged on a central spindle that rotates. 


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source: 


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitations; 


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or 


(3) Prior to December 1, 2020, fails to meet any emission limitation or operating limit in this subpart during malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


*Engine* means any internal combustion engine, any combustion turbine engine, or any rocket engine. 


*Engine Test Cell/Stand* means any apparatus used for testing uninstalled stationary or uninstalled mobile (motive) engines. 


*Hazardous Air Pollutant (HAP)* means any air pollutant listed in or pursuant to section 112(b) of the CAA. 


*Internal combustion engine* means a device in which air enters a combustion chamber, is mixed with fuel, compressed in the chamber, and combusted. Fuel may enter the combustion chamber with the air or be injected into the combustion chamber. Expansion of the hot combustion gases in the chamber rotates a shaft, either through a reciprocating or rotary action. For purposes of this subpart, this definition does not include combustion turbine engines. 


*Major source,* as used in this subpart, shall have the same meaning as in ยง 63.2. 


*Malfunction* means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner which causes, or has the potential to cause, the emission limitations in an applicable standard to be exceeded. Failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. 


*Rated power* means the maximum power output of an engine in use. 


*Potential to emit* means the maximum capacity of a stationary source to emit a pollutant under its physical and operational design. Any physical or operational limitation on the capacity of the stationary source to emit a pollutant, including air pollution control equipment and restrictions on hours of operation or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, shall be treated as part of its design if the limitation or the effect it would have on emissions is federally enforceable. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined by 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Rocket engine* means a device consisting of a combustion chamber in which materials referred to as propellants, which provide both the fuel and the oxygen for combustion, are burned. Combustion gases escape through a nozzle, providing thrust. 


*Uninstalled engine* means an engine not installed in, or an integrated part of, the final product.



---

[N] [68 FR 28785, May 27, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 20470, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 34348, June 3, 2020]





