# § 100.901   Great Lakes annual marine events.

Permanent special local regulations are hereby established for the marine events listed in Table 1. These regulations will be effective annually, for the duration of each event, on or about the dates indicated in Table 1. Annual notice of the exact dates and times of the effective period of the regulations with respect to each event, the geographical description of each regulated area, and details concerning the nature of the event and the number of participants and type(s) of vessels involved will be published in local notices to mariners. To be placed on the mailing list for such notices, contact: Commander(oan), Ninth Coast Guard District, 1240 E. Ninth St., Cleveland, OH 44199-2060. *Sponsors of events listed in Table 1 must still submit an application each year in accordance with 33 CFR 100.15.*

(a) The Coast Guard will patrol the regatta area under the direction of a designated Coast Guard Patrol Commander. The Patrol Commander may be contacted on Channel 16 (156.8 MHZ) by the call sign “Coast Guard Patrol Commander.” Vessels desiring to transit the regulated area may do so only with prior approval of the Patrol Commander and when so directed by that officer. Vessels will be operated at a no wake speed to reduce the wake to a minimum, and in a manner which will not endanger participants in the event or any other craft. The rules contained in the above two sentences shall not apply to participants in the event or vessels of the patrol operating in the performance of their assigned duties.


(b) The Patrol Commander may direct the anchoring, mooring, or movement of any boat or vessel within the regatta area. A succession of sharp, short signals by whistle or horn from vessels patrolling the area under the direction of the U.S. Coast Guard Patrol Commander shall serve as a signal to stop. Vessels so signaled shall stop and shall comply with the orders of the Patrol Commander. Failure to do so may result in expulsion from the area, citation for failure to comply, or both.


(c) The Patrol Commander may establish vessel size and speed limitations and operating conditions.


(d) The Patrol Commander may restrict vessel operation within the regatta area to vessels having particular operating characteristics.


(e) The Patrol Commander may terminate the marine event or the operation of any vessel at any time it is deemed necessary for the protection of life and property.


(f) Patrol Commander means a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port to monitor a regatta area, permit entry into the regatta area, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within the regatta area, and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port.







---

[N] [CGD 09-88-01, 54 FR 29547, July 13, 1989] 


