# § 76.720   State reporting requirements.

(a) This section applies to a State's reports required for monitoring and continuous improvement, including 2 CFR 200.328 (Financial reporting) and 2 CFR 200.329 (Monitoring and reporting program performance), and other reports required by the Secretary and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Subpart 1 of Chapter 35 (sections 3501-3521) of Title 44, U.S. Code, commonly known as the “Paperwork Reduction Act.”




(b) A State must submit these reports annually unless—


(1) The Secretary allows less frequent reporting; or


(2) The Secretary requires a State to report more frequently than annually, including reporting under 2 CFR 3474.10 and 2 CFR 200.207 (Specific conditions) and 2 CFR 3474.10 (Clarification regarding 2 CFR 200.207) or 2 CFR 200.302 Financial management and 200.303 Internal controls.


(c)(1) A State must submit these reports in the manner prescribed by the Secretary, including submitting any of these reports electronically and at the quality level specified in the data collection instrument.


(2) Failure by a State to submit reports in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section constitutes a failure, under section 454 of GEPA , 20 U.S.C. 1234c, to comply substantially with a requirement of law applicable to the funds made available under that program.


(3) For reports that the Secretary requires to be submitted in an electronic manner, the Secretary may establish a transition period of up to two years following the date the State otherwise would be required to report the data in the electronic manner, during which time a State will not be required to comply with that specific electronic submission requirement, if the State submits to the Secretary—


(i) Evidence satisfactory to the Secretary that the State will not be able to comply with the electronic submission requirement specified by the Secretary in the data collection instrument on the first date the State otherwise would be required to report the data electronically;


(ii) Information requested in the report through an alternative means that is acceptable to the Secretary, such as through an alternative electronic means; and


(iii) A plan for submitting the reports in the required electronic manner and at the level of quality specified in the data collection instrument no later than the date two years after the first date the State otherwise would be required to report the data in the electronic manner prescribed by the Secretary. 





---

[N] [72 FR 3702, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76094, Dec. 19, 2014; 89 FR 70339, Aug. 29, 2024]




