# § 800.97   Weighing grain in containers, land carriers, barges, and shiplots.

(a) *General.* The weighing of grain loaded or unloaded from any carrier shall be conducted according to this section and the instructions.


(b) *Procedure*—(1) *General.* If grain in a carrier is offered for inspection or weighing service as one lot, the grain must be weighed at the individual weighing location in a reasonably continuous operation and certified as one lot. The identification of the carrier(s) must be recorded on the scale tape or ticket and the weight certificate.


(2) *Sacked grain.* If sacked grain is offered for weighing and the grain is not fully accessible, the request for weighing service shall be dismissed.


(3) *Part lots.* If a portion of an inbound lot of grain is unloaded and a portion is left in the carrier because it is not uniform in quality or condition, or the lot is unloaded in other than a reasonably continuous operation, the portion that is removed and the portion remaining in the carrier shall be considered as part lots and shall be weighed and certificated as part lots.


(c) *Certification of trucklots, carlots, and bargelots*—(1) *Basic requirement.* One official certificate must be issued for the weighing of the grain in each container, truck, trailer, truck/trailer(s) combination, railroad car, barge, or similarly sized carrier. This requirement is not applicable to multiple grain carriers weighed as a single lot or combined lot under § 800.98.


(2) *Part-lot weight certificates.* A part-lot weight certificate shall show (i) the weight of the portion that is unloaded and (ii) the following statement: “Part-lot: The net weight stated herein reflects a partial unload.”


(d) *Certification of shiplot grain*—(1) *Basic requirement.* The certificate shall show (i) if applicable, a statement that the grain has been loaded aboard with other grain, (ii) the official weight, (iii) the stowage or other identification of the grain, and (iv) other information required by the regulations and the instructions.


(2) *Common stowage*—(i) *Without separation.* If bulk grain is offered for weighing as it is being loaded aboard a ship and is loaded without separation in a stowage area with other grain or another commodity, the weight certificate for the grain in each lot shall show that the lot was loaded aboard with other grain or another commodity without separation and the relative location of the grain.


(ii) *With separation.* If separations are laid between adjacent lots, the weight certificates shall show the kind of material used in the separations and the location of the separations in relation to each lot.


(iii) *Exception.* The common stowage requirements of this paragraph shall not be applicable to the first lot in a stowage area unless a second lot has been loaded, in whole or in part, in the stowage area before issuing the official weight certificate for the first lot.


(3) *Official mark.* If the grain is officially weighed in a reasonably continuous operation, upon request by the applicant, the following statement may be shown on the weight certificate: “Loaded under continuous official weighing.”



---

[N] [52 FR 6496, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 78 FR 43757, July 22, 2013]




