# ยง 404.281   Why your primary insurance amount may be recomputed.

(a) *Earnings not included in earlier computation or recomputation.* The most common reason for recomputing your primary insurance amount is to include earnings of yours that were not used in the first computation or in an earlier recomputation, as described in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. These earnings will result in a revised average monthly wage or revised average indexed monthly earnings.


(b) *New computation method enacted.* If a new method of computing or recomputing primary insurance amounts is enacted into law and you are eligible to have your primary insurance amount recomputed under the new method, we will recompute it under the new method if doing so would increase your primary insurance amount.


(c) *Earnings in the year you reach age 62 or become disabled.* In the initial computation of your primary insurance amount, we do not use your earnings in the year you become entitled to old-age insurance benefits or become disabled. However, we can use those earnings (called *lag earnings*) in a recomputation of your primary insurance amount. We recompute and begin paying you the higher benefits in the year after the year you become entitled to old-age benefits or become disabled.


(d) *Earnings not reported to us in time to use them in the computation of your primary insurance amount.* Because of the way reports of earnings are required to be submitted to us for years after 1977, the earnings you have in the year before you become entitled to old-age insurance benefits, or become disabled or in the year you die might not be reported to us in time to use them in computing your primary insurance amount. We recompute your primary insurance amount based on the new earnings information and begin paying you (or your survivors) the higher benefits based on the additional earnings, beginning with the month you became entitled or died.


(e) *Earnings after entitlement that are used in a recomputation.* Earnings that you have after you become entitled to benefits will be used in a recomputation of your primary insurance amount.


(f) *Entitlement to a monthly pension.* We will recompute your primary insurance amount if in a month after you became entitled to old-age or disability insurance benefits, you become entitled to a pension based on noncovered employment, as explained in ยง 404.213. Further, we will recompute your primary insurance amount after your death to disregard a monthly pension based on noncovered employment which affected your primary insurance amount.



---

[N] [47 FR 30734, July 15, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 47918, Dec. 17, 1987]




