# § 429.68   Air cleaners.

(a) *Sampling plan for selection of units for testing.* (1) The requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to air cleaners; and


(2) For each basic mode of air cleaners, a sample of sufficient size shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that—


(i) Any represented value of annual energy consumption or other measure of energy consumption of a basic mode for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:




(A) The mean of the sample:


Or,


(B) The upper 95 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.10:


And


(ii) Any represented value of the integrated energy factor or other measure of energy consumption of a basic mode for which consumers would favor higher values shall be less than or equal to the lower of:


(A) The mean of the sample:


Or,


(B) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.90:


And


(3) Any represented value of the pollen, smoke, dust, and PM_2.5_ clean air delivery rate (CADR) of a basic model must be the mean of the CADR for each tested unit of the basic model. Round the mean clean air delivery rate value to the nearest whole number.


(4) Any represented value of the effective room size, in square feet, of a basic model must be calculated as the product of 1.55 and the represented smoke CADR value of the basic model as determined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Round the value of the effective room size, in square feet, to the nearest whole number.


(5) Round the value of the annual energy consumption, in kWh/year, of a basic model to the nearest whole number.


(6) Round the value of the integrated energy factor of a basic model to the nearest 0.1 CADR/W.


(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to air cleaners; and


(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following public product-specific information:


(i) Smoke clean air delivery rate (CADR) in cubic feet per minute (cfm);


(ii) Dust CADR in cfm;


(iii) PM_2.5_ CADR in cfm;


(iv) Annual energy consumption in kilowatt hours per year (kWh/yr);


(v) Integrated energy factor in PM_2.5_ CADR per watt; and


(vi) Effective room size in square feet.





---

[N] [88 FR 14043, Mar. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 82069, Oct. 9, 2024]



]




