# § 170.5   Policy.

(a) Protection of FCI and CUI on contractor information systems is of paramount importance to the DoD and can directly impact its ability to successfully conduct essential missions and functions. It is DoD policy that defense contractors and subcontractors shall be required to safeguard FCI and CUI that is processed, stored, or transmitted on contractor information systems by applying specified security requirements. In addition, defense contractors and subcontractors may be required to implement additional safeguards defined in NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2), implementing DoD specified parameters to meet CMMC Level 3 security requirements (see table 1 to § 170.14(c)(4)). These additional requirements are necessary to protect CUI being processed, stored, or transmitted in contractor information systems, when designated by a requirement for CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) as defined by a DoD program manager or requiring activity. In general, the Department will identify a requirement for a CMMC Status of Level 3 (DIBCAC) for solicitations and resulting contracts supporting its most critical programs and technologies.


(b) Program managers and requiring activities are responsible for identifying the CMMC Status that will apply to a procurement. Selection of the applicable CMMC Status will be based on factors including but not limited to:


(1) Criticality of the associated mission capability;


(2) Type of acquisition program or technology;


(3) Threat of loss of the FCI or CUI to be shared or generated in relation to the effort;


(4) Impacts from exploitation of information security deficiencies; and


(5) Other relevant policies and factors, including Milestone Decision Authority guidance.


(c) In accordance with the implementation plan described in § 170.3, CMMC Program requirements will apply to new DoD solicitations and contracts, and shall flow down to subcontractors who will process, store, or transmit FCI or CUI in performance of the subcontract, as described in § 170.23.


(d) In very limited circumstances, and in accordance with all applicable policies, procedures, and requirements, a Service Acquisition Executive or Component Acquisition Executive in the DoD, or as delegated, may elect to waive inclusion of CMMC Program requirements in a solicitation or contract. In such cases, contractors and subcontractors will remain obligated to comply with all applicable cybersecurity and information security requirements.


(e) The CMMC Program does not alter any separately applicable requirements to protect FCI or CUI, including those requirements in accordance with 48 CFR 52.204-21, *Basic Safeguarding of Covered Contractor Information Systems,* or covered defense information in accordance with 48 CFR 252.204-7012, *Safeguarding Covered Defense Information and Cyber Incident Reporting,* or any other applicable information protection requirements. The CMMC Program provides a means of verifying implementation of the security requirements set forth in 48 CFR 52.204-21, NIST SP 800-171 R2, and NIST SP 800-172 Feb2021, as applicable.






