# ยง 51-8.6   Responses to Requests.

(a) *In general.* The Committee should, to the extent practicable, communicate with requesters having access to the internet using electronic means, such as email or web portal.


(b) *Acknowledgment of requests.* The Committee shall acknowledge the request and assign it an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process. The Committee shall include in the acknowledgement a brief description of the records sought to allow requesters to more easily keep track of their requests.


(c) *Grants of requests.* When the Committee makes a determination to grant a request in full or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. The Committee shall inform the requester of any fees charged under subpart 51-8.10 of this part and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees. The Committee must inform the requester of the availability of the FOIA Public Liaison to offer assistance.


(d) *Adverse determinations of requests.* If the Committee makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, the requester will be notified in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: The requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.


(e) *Content of denial.* The denial will be signed by the Executive Director or designee and include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied in denying the request;


(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;


(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed under subpart 51-8.8 of this part, and a description of the appeal requirements set forth therein; and


(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the Committee's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).




