# § 334.775   Naval Air Station Pensacola, Pensacola Bay, Pensacola and Gulf Breeze, Fla.; naval restricted area.

(a) *The areas.* (1) Bounded by a line drawn in the direction of 180° T from the position latitude 30°20′44″ N., longitude 87°17′18″ W. (near the Naval Air Station, due south of the Officer′s Club) to position latitude 30°20′09″ N., longitude 87°17′18″ W. thence 94° T to position latitude 30°20′07″ N., longitude 87°16′41″ W., thence 49° T to position latitude 30°20′37″ N., longitude 87°16′01″ W. (southwest end of Lexington finger pier), thence along the shoreline to point of origin.


(2) The waters within an area enclosed by the following points: Beginning at latitude 30°21.58′ N., longitude 87°12.49′ W.; thence to latitude 30°20.25′ N., longitude 87°11.00′ W.; thence to latitude 30°20.28′ N., longitude 87°14.27′ W.; thence to the point of beginning. This encompasses a large triangular area north of Santa Rosa Island and west of the land area between Fair Point and Deer Point.


(b) *The restrictions.* (1) The area described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will normally be in use Monday through Wednesday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. and one evening from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m., every other week.


(2) The area described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will normally be utilized Wednesday through Friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. for parasail operations.


(3) During those times that specific missions, exercises, or training operations are being conducted, the U.S. Navy vessels and/or crafts designated as essential to the operation(s) by proper U.S. Navy authority shall have the rights-of-way. All other vessels and crafts are required to keep clear of and remain 300 yards from all naval vessels engaged in said operations. Approaching within 300 yards of vessels and/or crafts while they are engaged in operations and/or training exercises is prohibited.


(4) Vessel traffic through the restricted area will remain open during operations and/or exercises; however, mariners shall exercise extreme caution and be on the lookout for swimmers, small craft and helicopters when transiting the area. It should be presumed by all mariners that Navy operations and/or exercises are being conducted whenever military craft and/or helicopters are operating within the restricted area.


(5) Any problems encountered regarding Navy operations/exercises within the restricted area should be addressed to “Navy Pensacola Command” on Channel 16 (156.6 MHz) for resolution and/or clarification.


(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commander of the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida, and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [70 FR 67372, Nov. 7, 2005]




