# § 28.50   Definition of terms used in this part.

*Accepted organization* means an organization which has been designated by the Commandant for the purpose of examining commercial fishing industry vessels under the provisions of § 28.73.


*Accommodations* include:


(1) A messroom.


(2) A lounge.


(3) A sitting area.


(4) A recreation room.


(5) Quarters.


(6) A toilet space.


(7) A shower room.


(8) A galley.


(9) Berthing facilities.


(10) A clothing changing room.


*Alcohol concentration* means either grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.


*Aleutian trade* means the transportation of cargo, including fishery related products, for hire on board a fish tender vessel to or from a place in Alaska west of 153 degrees West longitude and east of 172 degrees East longitude if that place receives weekly common carrier service by water, to or from a place in the United States, except a place in Alaska.


*Approved* means approved by the Commandant unless otherwise stated.


*Auxiliary Craft* means a vessel that is carried onboard a commercial fishing vessel and is normally used to support fishing operations.


*Boundary lines* means the lines described in part 7 of this chapter. In general, they follow the trend of the seaward high water shorelines and cross entrances to small bays, inlets, and rivers. In some areas, they are along the 12-mile line that marks the seaward limits of the territorial sea and, in other areas, they come ashore.


*Buoyant Apparatus* means a buoyant apparatus approved by the Commandant.


*Coast Guard Boarding Officer* means a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the Coast Guard having authority to board any vessel under the Act of August 4, 1949, 63 Stat. 502, as amended (14 U.S.C. 522).


*Coast Guard Representative* means a person employed at the cognizant U.S. Coast Guard Sector Office or Marine Inspection Office, or an accepted organization, or a similarly qualified organization approved in examining commercial fishing industry vessels. Contact Commandant (CG-CVC-3); Attn: Fishing Vessels Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7501, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7501 for a current list of accepted organizations or similarly qualified organizations.


*Coastal Service Pack* means equipment provided in liferafts approved by the Commandant for coastal service.


*Coastal waters* means coastal waters as defined in 33 CFR 175.105.


*Coastline* means the territorial sea baseline as defined in 33 CFR 2.20.


*Cold water* means water where the monthly mean low water temperature is normally 59 °F (15 °C) or less.


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the Coast Guard or an authorized representative of the Commandant of the Coast Guard.


*Commercial fishing industry vessel* means a fishing vessel, fish tender vessel, or a fish processing vessel.


*Currently corrected* means corrected with changes contained in all Notice to Mariners published by the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.


*Custom engineered* means, when referring to a fixed gas fire extinguishing system, a system that is designed for a specific space requiring individual calculations for the extinguishing agent volume, flow rate, and piping, among other factors, for the space.


*District Commander* means an officer of the Coast Guard designated as such by the Commandant to command all Coast Guard activities within a district.


*Documented vessel* means a vessel for which a Certificate of Documentation has been issued under the provisions of 46 CFR part 67.


*Equipment Packs* means equipment provided in liferafts approved by the Commandant.


*Especially hazardous condition* means a condition which may be life threatening or lead to serious injury if continued.


*Fish* means finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all other forms of marine animal and plant life, except marine mammals and birds.


*Fish processing vessel* means a vessel that commercially prepares fish or fish products other than by gutting, decapitating, gilling, skinning, shucking, icing, freezing, or brine chilling.


*Fish tender vessel* means a vessel that commercially supplies, stores, refrigerates, or transports fish, fish products, or materials directly related to fishing or the preparation of fish to or from a fishing, fish processing or fish tender vessel or a fish processing facility.


*Fishing vessel* means a vessel that commercially engages in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish or an activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish.


*Fishing Vessel Drill Conductor* means an individual who meets the training requirements of 46 CFR 28.270(c) for conducting drills and providing instruction once a month to each individual on board those vessels to which subpart C of this section applies.


*Fishing Vessel Safety Instructor* means an individual or organization that has been accepted by the local Officer-in-Charge, Marine Inspection to train Fishing Vessel Drill Conductors to conduct drills and provide instruction on those vessels to which subpart C of this part applies.


*Gasoline* as used in this part includes gasoline-alcohol blends and any other fuel having a flash point of 110 °F (43.3 °C) or lower.


*Inflatable Buoyant Apparatus* means an inflatable buoyant apparatus approved by the Commandant.


*Inflatable Liferaft* means an inflatable liferaft that is approved by the Commandant.


*Length* means the length listed on the vessel's Certificate of Documentation or Certificate of Number.


*Lifeboat* means a lifeboat approved by the Commandant.


*Liferaft* means a liferaft approved by the Commandant.


*Major conversion* means a conversion of a vessel that—


(1) Substantially changes the dimensions or carrying capacity of the vessel;


(2) Changes the type of the vessel;


(3) Substantially prolongs the life of the vessel; or


(4) Otherwise so changes the vessel that it is essentially a new vessel, as determined by the Commandant.


*Mile* means a nautical mile.


*North Pacific Area* means all waters of the North Pacific Ocean and Bering Sea north of 48°30′ north latitude including waters in contiguous bays, inlets, rivers, and sounds.


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI)* means an officer of the Coast Guard who commands a Marine Inspection Zone described in 33 CFR part 3 or an authorized representative of that officer.


*Open to the atmosphere* means a space that has at least 15 square inches (9680 square millimeters) of open area directly exposed to the atmosphere for each cubic foot (0.0283 cubic meters) of net volume of the space.


*Operating station* means the principal steering station on the vessel from which the vessel is normally navigated.


*Pre-engineered* means, when referring to a fixed gas fire extinguishing system, a system that is designed and tested to be suitable for installation as a complete unit in a space of a set volume, without modification, regardless of the vessel on which installed.


*Similarly qualified organization* means an organization which has been designated by the Commandant for the purpose of classing or examining commercial fishing industry vessels under the provisions of § 28.76.


*Switchboard* means an electrical panel which receives power from a generator, battery, or other electrical power source and distributes power directly or indirectly to all equipment supplied by the power source.


*Warm water* means water where the monthly mean low water temperature is normally more than 59 °F. (15 °C.).


*Watertight* means designed and constructed to withstand a static head of water without any leakage, except that “watertight” for the purposes of electrical equipment means enclosed so that equipment does not leak when a stream of water from a hose with a nozzle one inch (25.4 millimeters) in diameter that delivers at least 65 gallons (246 liters) per minute is played on the enclosure from any direction from a distance of 10 feet (3 meters) for five minutes.


*Weather deck* means the uppermost deck exposed to the weather to which a weathertight sideshell extends.


*Weathertight* means that water will not penetrate into the unit in any sea condition.



---

[N] [CGD 88-079, 56 FR 40393, Aug. 14, 1991] 


