# § 27.264   CBMA import refund claim submission.

(a) *General.* An importer who has elected to receive an assignment of CBMA tax benefits from a foreign producer may file a claim in accordance with this section for a partial refund of the tax paid to U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) on alcohol produced by the assigning foreign producer and imported into the United States by that importer. Refunds are to be determined no more frequently than quarterly. The amount of refund is calculated as provided at 26 U.S.C. 5001(c)(4)(B) for distilled spirits, 5041(c)(7)(B) for wine, and 5051(a)(6)(B) for beer, on such products entered for consumption within the calendar quarter and for which the importer has received an assignment of CBMA tax benefits and paid to CBP the tax determined on such products.


(b) *Election to receive CBMA tax benefits.* An importer who has been assigned CBMA tax benefits by a foreign producer is presumed to have elected to receive such assignment unless and until the importer rejects the assignment through the online system prior to filing a claim for a refund based on that assignment.


(c) *Information required at entry summary.* To be eligible for a refund described in paragraph (a) of this section, the importer must submit electronically the information required by § 27.48(a)(2) for distilled spirits, wines, and beer imported into the United States subject to tax (in satisfaction of § 27.48(a)(2), an importer who does not have and is not required to obtain an FAA Act basic permit must instead submit its TTB-assigned reference number obtained under § 27.266). The importer must also indicate its intent to claim a refund on the entry summaries of the consumption entries for the alcohol subject to the prospective claim, either at the time of entry summary or through post-summary correction. These entry summaries must include the following information for each line item to be included in a claim for refund, in the electronic format prescribed by CBP:


(1) The TTB-issued Foreign Producer ID of the foreign producer who assigned CBMA tax benefits to the importer;


(2) The name of the foreign producer who assigned CBMA tax benefits to the importer;


(3) A statement of whether the importer is using an eligible flavor content credit pursuant to §§ 27.76 and 27.77; and


(4) An indicator or set of indicators specifying the particular CBMA reduced tax rate or tax credit assigned by the foreign producer of the alcohol.


(d) *Information required in claim submission.* To submit a claim for a refund described in paragraph (a) of this section, the importer must submit and/or verify, as appropriate, within the CBMA importer refund claims system the following information for each consumption entry line item to be included in the claim:


(1) The date of the entry for consumption;


(2) The year of importation, if different than the year of the entry for consumption;


(3) The entry summary number and the entry summary line number;


(4) The particular CBMA reduced tax rate or tax credit assigned by the foreign producer of the alcohol;


(5) The quantity of proof gallons, wine gallons, or beer barrels entered for consumption subject to the rate or credit identified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section;


(6) The TTB-issued Foreign Producer ID of the foreign producer who assigned CBMA tax benefits to the importer;


(7) The amount of tax determined and paid by the importer;


(8) The amount of the refund sought by the importer;


(9) Information allowing the appropriate TTB officer to arrange payment to the importer of the refund;


(10) Any prescribed certifications attesting to submitter's authority and the truthfulness of the information submitted; and


(11) Any additional information, as needed by TTB on a case-by-case basis, to administer CBMA.


(e) *Timing of claim submission.* Claims under this section may be submitted only after the end of the calendar quarter in which the entries for consumption were filed. The calendar quarters end on March 31, June 30, September 31, and December 31. Claims must be filed within the limitations period set forth at 26 U.S.C. 6511.


(f) *Authorization.* Each person authorized to sign or act on behalf of the importer must be authorized pursuant to a duly executed power of attorney. TTB may collect additional information from the authorized person, as needed, to verify their identity. Such information may include identifying numbers (*e.g.,* Social Security Number) as provided in 26 U.S.C. 6109.


(g) *Electronic filing required.* To be eligible for a refund under this section, an importer must submit the information required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section electronically in the formats prescribed by CBP and TTB, respectively.





---

[N] [20 FR 3561, May 21, 1955, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87944, Nov. 6, 2024]






