# 215.404-72   Modified weighted guidelines method for nonprofit organizations other than FFRDCs.

(a) *Definition.* As used in this subpart, a nonprofit organization is a business entity—


(1) That operates exclusively for charitable, scientific, or educational purposes;


(2) Whose earnings do not benefit any private shareholder or individual;


(3) Whose activities do not involve influencing legislation or political campaigning for any candidate for public office; and


(4) That is exempted from Federal income taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(b) For nonprofit organizations that are entities that have been identified by the Secretary of Defense or a Secretary of a Department as receiving sustaining support on a cost-plus-fixed-fee basis from a particular DoD department or agency, compute a fee objective for covered actions using the weighted guidelines method in 215.404-71, with the following modifications:


(1) *Modifications to performance risk (Blocks 21-23 of the DD Form 1547).* (i) If the contracting officer assigns a value from the standard designated range (see 215.404-71-2(c)), reduce the fee objective by an amount equal to 1 percent of the costs in Block 20 of the DD Form 1547. Show the net (reduced) amount on the DD Form 1547.


(ii) Do not assign a value from the technology incentive designated range.


(2) *Modifications to contract type risk (Block 24 of the DD Form 1547).* Use a designated range of −1 percent to 0 percent instead of the values in 215.404-71-3. There is no normal value.


(c) For all other nonprofit organizations except FFRDCs, compute a fee objective for covered actions using the weighted guidelines method in 215.404-71, modified as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this subsection.



---

[N] [63 FR 63799, Nov. 17, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 77831, Dec. 13, 2000; 67 FR 20692, Apr. 26, 2002; 67 FR 49255, July 30, 2002]




