# ยง 204.32   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this regulation: 


*Chairman* means the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 


*Commission* means the Securities and Exchange Commission. 


*Creditor agency* means the agency to which the debt is owed. 


*Debt* means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include but are not necessarily limited to, erroneous payments made to employees such as overpayment of benefits, salary or other allowances; loans when insured or guaranteed by the United States; and other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayment, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and all other similar sources. 


*Disposable pay* means the amount that remains from an employee's federal pay after required deductions for federal, state and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; federal retirement programs; premiums for life and health insurance benefits; and such other deductions that are required by law to be withheld. (See 5 CFR 581.105(b) through (f) for items required by law to be withheld, and therefore excluded from disposable pay for the purposes of this regulation.) 


*Employee* means a current employee of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or other agency, including an active duty member or reservist in the U.S. Armed Forces or a former employee (or former active duty member or Reservist in the Armed Forces) with a current pay account. 


*FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Justice Department and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR parts 900-904. 


*Hearing official* means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed, and who renders a decision on the basis of such hearing. A hearing official may not be under the Chairman's supervision or control, except that nothing in this regulation shall be construed to prohibit the appointment of an administrative law judge. 


*Pay* means basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an individual not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay. 


*Program official* means, for the purpose of implementing this offset regulation, the Chief Financial Officer or designee. 


*Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s), at one or more officially established pay intervals, from the current pay account of an employee, without his or her consent. 


*Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law. 



---

[N] [58 FR 38520, July 19, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 54131, Oct. 26, 2001; 76 FR 60372, Sept. 29, 2011]




