# ยง 802.12   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 


(a) *Agency* has the meaning as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e). 


(b) *Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. 


(c) *Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate. 


(d) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Agency. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains the name, or an identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a fingerprint or a photograph. 


(e) *System of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. 


(f) *Statistical record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8. 


(g) *Routine use* means the disclosure of a record that is compatible with the purpose for which the record was collected. 


(h) *Request for access* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(1). 


(i) *Request for amendment* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(d)(2). 


(j) *Request for accounting* means a request made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3). 




