# ยง 2553.71   What is the process for application and award of a grant?

As funds become available, AmeriCorps solicits application for RSVP grants from eligible organizations through a competitive process.


(a) *What are the application requirements for an RSVP grant?* An applicant must:


(1) Submit required information determined by AmeriCorps.


(2) Demonstrate compliance with any applicable requirements specified in the Notice of Funding Availability or Notice of Funding Opportunity.


(b) *What process does AmeriCorps use to select new RSVP grantees?* (1) AmeriCorps reviews and determines the merits of an application by its responsiveness to published guidelines and to the overall purpose and objectives of the program. In conducting its review during the competitive process, AmeriCorps considers the input and opinions of those serving on a peer review panel, including members with expertise in senior service and aging, and may conduct site inspections, as appropriate.


(2) The selection process includes:


(i) Determining whether an application complies with the application requirements, such as deadlines, eligibility, and programmatic requirements, including performance measurement requirements;


(ii) Applying published selection criteria, as stated in the applicable Notice of Funding Availability or Notice of Funding Opportunity, to assess the quality of the application;


(iii) Applying any applicable priorities or preferences, as stated in the applicable Notice of Funding Availability or Notice of Funding Opportunity;


(iv) Ensuring innovation and geographic, demographic, and programmatic diversity across AmeriCorps RSVP grantee portfolio; and


(v) Identifying the applications that most completely respond to the published guidelines and offer the highest probability of successfully carrying out the overall purpose and objectives of the program.


(c) *How is a grant awarded?* (1) Subject to the availability of funds, the award will be documented by a Notice of Grant Award (NGA).


(2) AmeriCorps and the sponsoring organization are parties to the NGA. The NGA will document the sponsor's commitment to fulfill specific programmatic objectives and financial obligations. It will document the extent of AmeriCorps' obligation to provide assistance to the sponsor.


(d) *What happens if AmeriCorps rejects an application?* AmeriCorps will inform an applicant when an application is not approved for funding.


(e) *For what period of time does AmeriCorps award a grant?* AmeriCorps awards an RSVP grant for a specified period that is usually three years in duration with an option for a grant renewal of three years, if the grantee's performance and compliance with grant terms and conditions are satisfactory. AmeriCorps will terminate funding to a grantee when AmeriCorps determines that the grant should not be renewed for an additional three year period.



---

[N] [76 FR 20246, Apr. 12, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 64656, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70545, Aug. 30, 2024]




