# § 244.19   Disposition.

(a) *Standard of review.* FRA reviews an applicant's Safety Integration Plan, and any amendments thereto, to determine whether it provides a reasonable assurance of safety at every step of the transaction. In making this determination, FRA will consider whether the plan: 


(1) Is thorough, complete, and clear; and 


(2) Describes in adequate detail a logical and workable transition from conditions existing before the transaction to conditions intended to exist after consummation of the transaction. 


(b) *Approval of the Safety Integration Plan and Amendments Thereto.* FRA approves a Safety Integration Plan, and any amendments thereto, that meets the standard set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. The approval will be conditioned on an applicant's execution of all of the elements contained in the plan, including any amendments to the plan approved by FRA. 


(c) *Amendment*—(1) *By the applicant.* The applicant may amend its Safety Integration Plan, from time to time, provided it explains the need for the proposed amendment in writing to FRA. Any amendment shall take effect no earlier than 30 days after its submission to FRA, unless it is either approved or disapproved by FRA within that period. Any disapproval of an amendment shall be in accordance with the requirements prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(2) *By FRA.* FRA may request an applicant to amend its approved Safety Integration Plan from time to time should circumstances warrant. 



---

[N] [67 FR 11604, Mar. 15, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 68045, Nov. 8, 2002]




