# ยง 403.750   Estimate of expenditures and adjustments.

(a) *Estimates.* CMS estimates the level of expenditures for services provided under this subpart before the start of each FFY beginning with FFY 2000.


(b) *Adjustments to payments.* When the level of estimated expenditures is projected to exceed the FFY trigger level as described in paragraph (d) of this section, for the year of the projection, payments to RNHCIs will be reduced by a proportional percentage to prevent estimated expenditures from exceeding the trigger level. In addition to reducing payments proportionally, CMS may impose alternative adjustments.


(c) *Notification of adjustments.* CMS notifies participating RNHCIs before the start of the FFY of the type and level of expenditure reductions to be made and when these adjustments will apply.


(d) *Calculation of trigger level.* The trigger level for FFY 1998 is $20,000,000. For subsequent FFYs, the trigger level is the unadjusted trigger level increased or decreased by the carry forward as described in ยง 403.754(b). The unadjusted trigger level is the base year amount (the unadjusted trigger level dollar amount for the prior FFY) increased by the average consumer price index (the single numerical value published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that presents the relationship in United States urban areas for the current cost of goods and services compared to a base year, to represent the change in spending power) for the 12-month period ending on July 31 preceding the beginning of the FFY.




