# § 103.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*Accessions training.* Training that a Service member receives upon initial entry into Military Service through basic military training.


*Case management group (CMG).* A multi-disciplinary group that meets monthly to review individual cases of Unrestricted Reports of sexual assault. The group facilitates monthly victim updates and system coordination, program accountability, and victim access to quality services. At a minimum, each group shall consist of the following additional military or civilian professionals who are involved and working on a specific case: SARC, SAPR VA, military criminal investigator, DoD law enforcement, healthcare provider and mental health and counseling services, chaplain, command legal representative or SJA, and victim's commander.


*Certification.* Refers to the process by which the Department credentials SARCs and SAPR VAs, assesses the effectiveness of sexual assault advocacy capabilities using a competencies framework, and evaluates and performs oversight over SARC and SAPR VA training. The certification criteria are established by the Department in consultation with subject-matter experts.


*Collateral misconduct.* Victim misconduct that might be in time, place, or circumstance associated with the victim's sexual assault incident. Collateral misconduct by the victim of a sexual assault is one of the most significant barriers to reporting assault because of the victim's fear of punishment. Some reported sexual assaults involve circumstances where the victim may have engaged in some form of misconduct (*e.g.,* underage drinking or other related alcohol offenses, adultery, fraternization, or other violations of certain regulations or orders).


*Confidential communication.* Oral, written, or electronic communications of personally identifiable information (PII) concerning a sexual assault victim and the sexual assault incident provided by the victim to the SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel in a Restricted Report. This confidential communication includes the victim's SAFE Kit and its information. See *https://www.archives.gov/cui.*

*Consent.* A freely given agreement to the conduct at issue by a competent person. An expression of lack of consent through words or conduct means there is no consent. Lack of verbal or physical resistance or submission resulting from the use of force, threat of force, or placing another person in fear does not constitute consent. A current or previous dating or social or sexual relationship by itself or the manner of dress of the person involved with the accused in the conduct at issue shall not constitute consent. A sleeping, unconscious, or incompetent person cannot consent.


*Credible information.* Information that, considering the source and nature of the information and the totality of the circumstances, is sufficiently believable to presume that the fact or facts in question are true.


*Credible report.* Either a written or verbal report made in support of an Expedited Transfer that is determined to have credible information.


*Crisis intervention.* Emergency non-clinical care aimed at assisting victims in alleviating potential negative consequences by providing safety assessments and connecting victims to needed resources. Either the SARC or SAPR VA will intervene as quickly as possible to assess the victim's safety and determine the needs of victims and connect them to appropriate referrals, as needed.


*Culturally competent care.* Care that provides culturally and linguistically appropriate services.


*Defense Sexual Assault Incident Database (DSAID).* A DoD database that captures uniform data provided by the Military Services and maintains all sexual assault data collected by the Military Services. This database shall be a centralized, case-level database for the uniform collection of data regarding incidence of sexual assaults involving persons covered by this part. DSAID will include information when available, or when not limited by Restricted Reporting, or otherwise prohibited by law, about the nature of the assault, the victim, the offender, and the disposition of reports associated with the assault. DSAID shall be available to the SAPRO and the DoD to develop and implement congressional reporting requirements. Unless authorized by law, or needed for internal DoD review or analysis, disclosure of data stored in DSAID will only be granted when disclosure is ordered by a military, Federal, or State judge or other officials or entities as required by law or applicable U.S. international agreement.


*Designated activity.* The agency that processes PCS or PCA for Expedited Transfers.


(1) *Air Force:* Air Force Personnel Center.


(2) *Army:* Human Resources Command for inter-installation transfers and the installation personnel center for intra-installation transfers.


(3) *Navy:* Bureau of Naval Personnel.


(4) *U.S. Marine Corps:* The order writing section of Headquarters Marine Corps.


(5) *Air and Army National Guard:* The NGB or the Joint Forces Headquarters-State for the State involved.


*Emergency.* A situation that requires immediate intervention to prevent the loss of life, limb, sight, or body tissue to prevent undue suffering. Regardless of appearance, a sexual assault victim needs immediate medical intervention to prevent loss of life or undue suffering resulting from internal or external physical injuries, sexually transmitted infections, pregnancy, or psychological distress. Sexual assault victims shall be given priority as emergency cases regardless of evidence of physical injury.


*Emergency care.* Emergency medical care includes physical and emergency psychological medical services and a SAFE consistent with the most current version of U.S. Department of Justice, Office on Violence Against Women, “A National Protocol for Sexual Assault Medical Forensic Examinations, Adults/Adolescents.”


*Executive agent.* The Head of a DoD Component to whom the Secretary of Defense or the Deputy Secretary of Defense has assigned specific responsibilities, functions, and authorities to provide defined levels of support for operational missions, or administrative or other designated activities that involve two or more of the DoD Components.


*FAP.* A DoD program designated to address child abuse and domestic abuse in military families in cooperation with civilian social service agencies and military and civilian law enforcement agencies. Prevention, advocacy, and intervention services are provided to individuals who are eligible for treatment in military medical treatment facilities.


*Final disposition.* Actions taken to resolve the reported incident, document case outcome, and address the misconduct by the alleged perpetrator, as appropriate. It includes, but is not limited to, military justice proceedings, nonjudicial punishment, or administrative actions, including separation actions taken in response to the offense, whichever is the most serious action taken.


*Gender-responsive care.* Care that acknowledges and is sensitive to gender differences and gender-specific issues.


*Healthcare.* Medical (physical) and mental healthcare.


*Healthcare personnel.* Persons assisting or otherwise supporting healthcare providers in providing healthcare services (*e.g.,* administrative personnel assigned to a military MTF). Includes all healthcare providers.


*Healthcare provider.* Those individuals who are employed or assigned as healthcare professionals or are credentialed to provide healthcare services at an MTF, or who provide such care at a deployed location or otherwise in an official capacity. This also includes military personnel, DoD civilian employees, and DoD contractors who provide healthcare at an occupational health clinic for DoD civilian employees or DoD contractor personnel. Healthcare providers may include, but are not limited to:


(1) Licensed physicians practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in obstetrics and gynecology, emergency medicine, family practice, internal medicine, pediatrics, urology, general medical officer, undersea medical officer, flight surgeon, psychiatrists, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations or treat mental health conditions.


(2) Licensed advanced practice registered nurses practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in adult health, family health, midwifery, women's health, mental health, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations.


(3) Licensed physician assistants practicing in the MHS with clinical privileges in adult, family, women's health, or those having clinical privileges to perform pelvic examinations.


(4) Licensed registered nurses practicing in the MHS who meet the requirements for performing a SAFE as determined by the local privileging authority. This additional capability shall be noted as a competency, not as a credential or privilege.


(5) A psychologist, social worker, or psychotherapist licensed and privileged to provide mental health care or other counseling services in a DoD or DoD-sponsored facility.


*Hospital facilities (Level 3).* Minimum operational functions required for a Level 3 hospital include: Command, control, and communications; patient administration; nutritional care; supply and services; triage; emergency medical treatment; preoperative care; orthopedics; general surgery; operating rooms and central materiel and supply services; anesthesia; nursing services (to include intensive and intermediate care wards); pharmacy; clinical laboratory and blood banking; radiology services; and hospital ministry team services.


*Installation.* A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including any leased facility. It does not include any facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, flood control, or other projects not under the primary jurisdiction or control of the Department of Defense. For additional information see paragraph (ii) of Appendix A to this part.


*Installation commander.* Commander of a base, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for any ship, or other activity under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense, including any leased facility. It does not include any facility used primarily for civil works, rivers and harbors projects, flood control, or other projects not under the primary jurisdiction or control of the Department of Defense.


*Intimate partner.* A person with whom the victim shares a child in common or with whom the victim shares or has shared a common domicile. For additional information see paragraph (e) of Appendix A to this part.


*Law enforcement.* Includes all DoD law enforcement units, security forces, and MCIOs.


*MCIOs.* The U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command, Naval Criminal Investigative Service, and Air Force Office of Special Investigations.


*Medical care.* Includes physical and psychological medical services.


*Military OneSource.* A DoD-funded program providing comprehensive information on every aspect of military life at no cost to active duty, National Guard, and Reserve members, and their families. Military OneSource has a mandatory reporting requirement.


*Military Services.* The term, as used in the SAPR Program, includes Army, Air Force, Navy, Marines, Reserve Components, and their respective Military Academies.


*Non-identifiable personal information.* Non-identifiable personal information includes those facts and circumstances surrounding the sexual assault incident or that information about the individual that enables the identity of the individual to remain anonymous. In contrast, personal identifying information is information belonging to the victim and alleged assailant of a sexual assault that would disclose or have a tendency to disclose the person's identity.


*Non-participating victim.* Victim choosing not to participate in the military justice system.


*Official investigative process.* The formal process a law enforcement organization uses to gather evidence and examine the circumstances surrounding a report of sexual assault.


*Open with limited information.* Entry in DSAID to be used in the following situations: Victim refused or declined services, victim opt-out of participating in investigative process, third-party reports, local jurisdiction refused to provide victim information, or civilian victim with military subject.


*Personal Identifiable Information.* Includes the person's name, other particularly identifying descriptions (*e.g.,* physical characteristics or identity by position, rank, or organization), or other information about the person or the facts and circumstances involved that could reasonably be understood to identify the person (*e.g.,* a female in a particular squadron or barracks when there is only one female assigned).


*Qualifying conviction.* A State or Federal conviction, or a finding of guilty in a juvenile adjudication, for a felony crime of sexual assault and any general or special court-martial conviction for a UCMJ offense, which otherwise meets the elements of a crime of sexual assault, even though not classified as a felony or misdemeanor within the UCMJ. In addition, any offense that requires registration as a sex offender is a qualifying conviction.


*Re-victimization.* A pattern wherein the victim of abuse or crime has a statistically higher tendency to be victimized again, either shortly thereafter or much later in adulthood in the case of abuse as a child. This latter pattern is particularly notable in cases of sexual abuse.


*Recovery-oriented care.* Focus on the victim and on doing what is necessary and appropriate to support victim recovery, and also, if a Service member, to support that Service member to be fully mission capable and engaged.


*Respond, response, or response capability.* All locations, including deployed areas, have a 24 hour, 7 days per week, sexual assault response capability. The SARC shall be notified, respond, or direct a SAPR VA to respond, assign a SAPR VA, and offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE. In geographic locations where there is no SARC onsite, the on-call SAPR VA shall respond, offer the victim healthcare treatment and a SAFE, and immediately notify the SARC of the sexual assault. The initial response is generally composed of personnel in the following disciplines or positions: SARCs, SAPR VAs, healthcare personnel, law enforcement, and MCIOs. Other responders are judge advocates, chaplains, and commanders. When victims geographically detached from a military installation, the SARC or SAPR VA will refer to local civilian providers or the DoD Safe Helpline for resources.


*Responders.* Includes first responders, who are generally composed of personnel in the following disciplines or positions: SARCs, SAPR VAs, healthcare personnel, law enforcement, and MCIOs. Other responders are judge advocates, chaplains, and commanders, but they are usually not first responders.


*Restricted Reporting.* Reporting option that allows sexual assault victims to confidentially disclose the assault to specified individuals (*i.e.,* SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel), and receive medical treatment, including emergency care, counseling, and assignment of a SARC and SAPR VA, without triggering an investigation. The victim's report provided to healthcare personnel (including the information acquired from a SAFE Kit), SARCs, or SAPR VAs will NOT be reported to law enforcement or to the command to initiate the official investigative process unless the victim consents or an established exception applies. The Restricted Reporting Program applies to Service members and their military dependents 18 years of age and older. Additional persons who may be entitled to Restricted Reporting are NG and Reserve members. DoD civilians and contractors are only eligible to file an Unrestricted Report. Only a SARC, SAPR VA, or healthcare personnel may receive a Restricted Report, previously referred to as Confidential Reporting.


*Safe Helpline.* A crisis support service for members of the DoD community affected by sexual assault. The DoD Safe Helpline is available 24/7 worldwide with “click, call, or text” user options for anonymous and confidential support; can be accessed by logging on to *www.safehelpline.org* or by calling 1-877-995-5247, and through the Safe Helpline mobile application; is to be utilized as the sole DoD hotline. However, the local base and installation SARC or SAPR VA contact information is not replaced.


*SAFE Kit.* The medical and forensic examination of a sexual assault victim under circumstances and controlled procedures to ensure the physical examination process and the collection, handling, analysis, testing, and safekeeping of any bodily specimens and evidence meet the requirements necessary for use as evidence in criminal proceedings. The victim's SAFE Kit is treated as a confidential communication when conducted as part of a Restricted Report.


*Safety assessment.* A set of guidelines and considerations post-sexual assault that the responsible personnel designated by the Installation Commander can follow to determine if a sexual assault survivor is likely to be in imminent danger of physical or psychological harm as a result of being victimized by or reporting sexual assault(s). The guidelines and considerations consist of a sequence of questions, decisions, referrals, and actions that responders can enact to contribute to the safety of survivors during the first 72 hours after a report, and during other events that can increase the lethality risk for survivors (*e.g.,* arrests or command actions against the alleged perpetrators). Types of imminent danger may include non-lethal, lethal, or potentially lethal behaviors; the potential harm caused by the alleged perpetrator, family/friend(s)/acquaintance(s) of the alleged perpetrator, or the survivors themselves (*e.g.,* harboring self-harm or suicidal thoughts). The safety assessment includes questions about multiple environments, to include home and the workplace. Survivors are assessed for their perception or experience of potential danger from their leadership or peers via reprisal or ostracism. The safety assessment contains a safety plan component that survivors can complete and take with them to help improve coping, social support, and resource access during their recovery period.


*SAPR Integrated Product Team (IPT).* A team of individuals that advises the USD(P&R) and the Secretary of Defense on policies for sexual assault issues. The SAPR IPT serves as the implementation and oversight arm of the SAPR Program. It coordinates policy and reviews the DoD's SAPR policies and programs and monitors the progress of program elements. For additional information see paragraph (c) of Appendix A to this part.


*SAPR Program.* A DoD program for the Military Departments and the DoD Components that establishes SAPR policies to be implemented worldwide. The program objective is an environment and military community intolerant of sexual assault.


*SAPR VA.* A person who, as a victim advocate, shall provide non-clinical crisis intervention, referral, and ongoing non-clinical support to adult sexual assault victims. Support will include providing information on available options and resources to victims. The SAPR VA, on behalf of the sexual assault victim, provides liaison assistance with other organizations and agencies on victim care matters and reports directly to the SARC when performing victim advocacy duties. Personnel who are interested in serving as a SAPR VA are encouraged to volunteer for this duty assignment.


*SAPRO.* Serves as the DoD's single point of authority, accountability, and oversight for the SAPR program, except for legal processes and criminal investigative matters that are the responsibility of the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments and the IG, respectively.


*SARC.* The single point of contact at an installation or within a geographic area who oversees sexual assault awareness, prevention, and response training; coordinates medical treatment, including emergency care, for victims of sexual assault; and tracks the services provided to a victim of sexual assault from the initial report through final disposition and resolution.


*Secondary victimization.* The re-traumatization of the sexual assault, abuse, or rape victim. It is an indirect result of assault that occurs through the responses of individuals and institutions to the victim. The types of secondary victimization include victim blaming, inappropriate behavior or language by medical personnel and by other organizations with access to the victim post assault.


*Senior commander.* An officer, usually in the grade of O-6 or higher, who is the commander of a military installation or comparable unit and has been designated by the Military Service concerned to oversee the SAPR Program.


*Service member.* An active duty member of a Military Service. In addition, National Guard and Reserve Component members who are sexually assaulted when performing active service, as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(3), and inactive duty training.


*Sexual assault.* Intentional sexual contact characterized by use of force, threats, intimidation, or abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot consent. The term includes a broad category of sexual offenses consisting of the following specific UCMJ offenses: Rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, forcible sodomy (forced oral or anal sex), or attempts to commit these acts.


*SVC.* Attorneys who are assigned to provide legal services in accordance with section 1716 of Public Law 113-66 and Service regulations. The Air Force, Army, National Guard, and Coast Guard refer to these attorneys as SVC. The Navy and Marine Corps refer to these attorneys as VLC.


*SVIP capability.* A distinct, recognizable group of appropriately skilled professionals, including MCIO investigators, judge advocates, victim witness assistance personnel, and administrative paralegal support personnel, who work collaboratively to:


(1) Investigate and prosecute allegations of child abuse (involving sexual assault or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm), domestic violence (involving sexual assault or aggravated assault with grievous bodily harm), and adult sexual assault (not involving domestic offenses)


(2) Provide support for the victims of such offenses. For additional information see paragraph (bb) of Appendix A to this part.


*Trauma informed care.* An approach to engage people with histories of trauma that recognizes the presence of trauma symptoms and acknowledges the role that trauma has played in their lives. Trauma-informed services are based on an understanding of the vulnerabilities or triggers of trauma survivors that traditional service delivery approaches may exacerbate, so that these services and programs can be more supportive and avoid re-traumatization.


*Victim.* A person who asserts direct physical, emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a sexual assault. The term encompasses all persons 18 and over eligible to receive treatment in military medical treatment facilities.


*VLC.* Attorneys who are assigned to provide legal services in accordance with section 1716 of Public Law 113-66, “The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,” and Service regulations. The Air Force, Army, National Guard, and Coast Guard refer to these attorneys as SVC. The Navy and Marine Corps refer to these attorneys as VLC.


*VWAP.* Provides guidance for assisting victims and witnesses of crime from initial contact through investigation, prosecution, and confinement. Particular attention is paid to victims of serious and violent crime, including child abuse, domestic violence, and sexual misconduct. For additional information see paragraph (aa) of Appendix A to this part.




