# ยง 13.54   Decision after appeal.

(a) *Issuance of decision.* After considering all written arguments and evidence submitted by the certificate holder, the appropriate TTB officer must issue a final decision regarding the revocation by operation of law or regulation of the certificate. If the decision is that the law or regulation at issue requires the revocation of the certificate of label approval, certificate of exemption from label approval, or distinctive liquor bottle approval, a letter must be issued explaining the basis for the revocation, and citing the specific laws or regulations which required the revocation of the certificate. If the decision is that the law or regulation at issue does not require the revocation of such certificate, a letter explaining the decision must be sent to the certificate holder. The decision after appeal will be the final decision of the TTB.


(b) *Time limits for decision.* Within 90 days of receipt of an appeal, the appropriate TTB officer must notify the holder whether the appeal has been granted or denied. If a certificate holder requests an informal conference as part of an appeal, as authorized in ยง 13.71, the 90-day period will begin 10 days after the date of the conference to allow for consideration of any written arguments, facts or evidence submitted after the conference. The appropriate TTB officer may extend this period of time once by an additional 90 days if he or she finds that unusual circumstances require additional time to consider the issues presented by an appeal. If the appropriate TTB officer extends the period, he or she must notify the holder by letter, briefly explaining the issues presented by the label. The decision of the appropriate TTB officer shall be the final decision of the TTB.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-406, 64 FR 2129, Jan. 13, 1999, as amended by T.D. ATF-449, 66 FR 19086, Apr. 13, 2001]




