# ยง 1240.60   Definitions.

As used in this subpart the term:


*ABC* means *American Baptist Churches* v. *Thornburgh,* 760 F. Supp. 796 (N.D. Cal. 1991).


*ABC class member* refers to:


(1) Any Guatemalan national who first entered the United States on or before October 1, 1990; and


(2) Any Salvadoran national who first entered the United States on or before September 19, 1990.


*Asylum application pending adjudication by the Service* means any asylum application for which the Service has not served the applicant with a final decision or which has not been referred to the Immigration Court.


*Filed an application for asylum* means the proper filing of a principal asylum application or filing a derivative asylum application by being properly included as a dependent spouse or child in an asylum application pursuant to the regulations and procedures in effect at the time of filing the principal or derivative asylum application.


*IIRIRA* means the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, enacted as Pub. L. 104-208 (110 Stat. 3009-625).


*NACARA* means the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act (NACARA), enacted as title II of Pub. L. 105-100 (111 Stat. 2160, 2193), as amended by the Technical Corrections to the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act, Pub. L. 105-139 (111 Stat. 2644).


*Registered ABC class member* means an ABC class member who:


(1) In the case of an *ABC* class member who is a national of El Salvador, properly submitted an ABC registration form to the Service on or before October 31, 1991, or applied for temporary protected status on or before October 31, 1991; or


(2) In the case of an *ABC* class member who is a national of Guatemala, properly submitted an *ABC* registration form to the Service on or before December 31, 1991.




