# § 1.2200   Definitions.

For purposes of §§ 1.2200 through 1.2209:


(a) *Broadcast television licensee.* The term *broadcast television licensee* means the licensee of


(1) A full-power television station, or


(2) A low-power television station that has been accorded primary status as a Class A television licensee under § 73.6001(a) of this chapter.


(b) *Channel sharee.* The term *channel sharee* means a broadcast television licensee that relinquishes all spectrum usage rights with respect to a particular television channel in order to share a television channel with another broadcast television licensee.


(c) *Channel sharer.* The term *channel sharer* means a broadcast television licensee that shares its television channel with a channel sharee.


(d) *Channel sharing bid.* The term *channel sharing bid* means a bid to relinquish all spectrum usage rights with respect to a particular television channel in order to share a television channel with another broadcast television licensee by an applicant that submits an executed channel sharing agreement with its application.


(e) *Forward auction.* The term *forward auction* means the portion of an incentive auction of broadcast television spectrum described in section 6403(c) of the Spectrum Act.


(f) *High-VHF-to-low-VHF bid.* The term *high-VHF-to-low-VHF bid* means a bid to relinquish all spectrum usage rights with respect to a high very high frequency (“VHF”) television channel (channels 7 through 13) in return for receiving spectrum usage rights with respect to a low VHF television channel (channels 2 through 6).


(g) *License relinquishment bid.* The term *license relinquishment bid* means a bid to relinquish all spectrum usage rights with respect to a particular television channel without receiving in return any spectrum usage rights with respect to another television channel.


(h) *NCE station.* The term *NCE station* means a noncommercial educational television broadcast station as defined in § 73.621 of this chapter.


(i) *Reverse auction.* The term *reverse auction* means the portion of an incentive auction of broadcast television spectrum described in section 6403(a) of the Spectrum Act.


(j) *Reverse auction bid.* The term *reverse auction bid* includes a license relinquishment bid, a UHF-to-VHF bid, a high-VHF-to-low-VHF bid, a channel sharing bid, and any other reverse auction bids permitted.


(k) *Spectrum Act.* The term *Spectrum Act* means Title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-96).


(l) *UHF-to-VHF bid.* The term *UHF-to-VHF bid* means a bid to relinquish all spectrum usage rights with respect to an ultra-high frequency (“UHF”) television channel in return for receiving spectrum usage rights with respect to a high VHF television channel or a low VHF television channel.



---

[N] [79 FR 48530, Aug. 15, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 67342, Nov. 2, 2015]




