# ยง 120.545   What are SBA's policies concerning the liquidation of collateral and the sale of business loans and physical disaster assistance loans, physical disaster business loans and economic injury disaster loans?

(a) *Liquidation policy.* SBA or the Lender may liquidate collateral securing a loan if the loan is in default or there is no reasonable prospect that the loan can be repaid within a reasonable period. 


(b) *Sale and conversion of loans.* Without the consent of the Borrower, SBA may: 


(1) Sell a direct loan; 


(2) Convert a guaranteed or immediate participation loan to a direct loan; or 


(3) Convert an immediate participation loan to a guaranteed loan or a loan owned solely by the Lender. 


(4) Sell direct and purchased 7(a) and 501, 502, 503 and 504 loans and physical disaster home loans, physical disaster business loans and economic injury disaster loans in asset sales. SBA will offer these loans for sale to qualified bidders by means of competitive procedures at publicly advertised sales. Bidder qualifications will be set for each sale in accordance with the terms and conditions of each sale.


(c) *Disposal of collateral and assets acquired through foreclosure or conveyance.* SBA or the Lender may sell real and personal property (including contracts and claims) pledged to secure a loan that is in default in accordance with the provisions of the related security instrument (*see* ยง 120.550 for Homestead Protection for Farmers). 


(1) *Competitive bids or negotiated sales.* Generally, SBA will offer loan collateral and acquired assets for public sale through competitive bids at auctions or sealed bid sales. The Lender may use negotiated sales if consistent with its usual practice for similar non-SBA assets. 


(2) *Lease of acquired property.* Normally, neither SBA nor a Lender will rent or lease acquired property or grant options to purchase. SBA and the Lender will consider proposals for a lease if it appears a property cannot be sold advantageously and the lease may be terminated on reasonable notice upon receipt of a favorable purchase offer. 


(d) *Recoveries and security interests shared.* SBA and the Lender will share pro rata (in accordance with their respective interests in a loan) all loan payments or recoveries, including proceeds from asset sales, all reasonable expenses (including advances for the care, preservation, and maintenance of collateral securing the loan and the payment of senior lienholders), and any security interest or guarantee (excluding SBA's guarantee) which the Lender or SBA may hold or receive in connection with a loan.


(e) *Guarantors.* Guarantors of financial assistance have no rights of contribution against SBA on an SBA guaranteed or direct loan. SBA is not deemed to be a co-guarantor with any other guarantors. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 44110, Aug. 13, 1999; 65 FR 17133, Mar. 31, 2000; 68 FR 51680, Aug. 28, 2003. Redesignated and amended at 72 FR 18362, Apr. 12, 2007]




