# ยง 1234.24   How does NARA process a waiver request?

(a) *Waiver for equivalent or superior alternative.* NARA will review the waiver request and supporting documentation.


(1) If in NARA's judgment the supporting documentation clearly supports the claim that the alternative is equivalent or superior to the NARA requirement, NARA will grant the waiver and notify the requesting agency within 30 calendar days.


(2) If NARA questions whether supporting documentation demonstrates that the proposed alternative offers at least equal protection to Federal records, NARA will consult the appropriate industry standards body or other qualified expert before making a determination. NARA will notify the requesting agency within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request that consultation is necessary and will provide a final determination within 60 calendar days. If NARA does not grant the waiver, NARA will furnish a full explanation of the reasons for its decision.


(b) *Waiver of new requirement for existing agency records center.* NARA will review the agency's waiver request and plan to bring the facility into compliance.


(1) NARA will approve the request and plan within 30 calendar days if NARA judges the planned actions and time frames for bringing the facility into compliance are reasonable.


(2) If NARA questions the feasibility or reasonableness of the plan, NARA will work with the agency to develop a revised plan that NARA can approve and the agency can implement. NARA may grant a short-term temporary waiver, not to exceed 180 calendar days, while the revised plan is under development.


(c) *Waiver of roof requirements for underground storage facilities.* NARA will normally grant the waiver and notify the requesting agency within 10 work days if the agency has not also requested a waiver of a different requirement under ยง 1234.30. If the agency has another waiver request pending for the same facility, NARA will respond to all of the waiver requests at the same time and within the longest time limits.




