# ยง 227.28   Cancellations.

Leases shall be irrevocable except for breach of the terms and conditions of the same and may be forfeited and cancelled by an appropriate proceeding in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming whenever the lessee fails to comply with their terms and conditions; the lessee may, on approval of the Secretary of the Interior, surrender a lease or any part of it: 


(a) That he make application for cancellation to the superintendent having jurisdiction over the land. 


(b) That he pay a surrender fee of $1 at the time the application is made. 


(c) That he pay all royalties and rentals due to the date of such application. 


(d) That he make a satisfactory showing that full provision has been made for conservation and protection of the property and that all wells, drilled on the portion of the lease surrendered, have been properly abandoned. 


(e) If the lease has been recorded, that he file, with his application, a recorded release of the acreage covered by the application. 


(f) If the application is for the cancellation of the entire lease or the entire undivided portion, that he surrender the lease: *Provided,* That where the application is made by an assignee to whom no copy of the lease was delivered, he will be required to surrender only his copy of the assignment. 


(g) If the lease (or portion being surrendered or canceled) is owned in undivided interests by more than one party, then all parties shall join in the application for cancellation. 


(h) That all required fees and papers must be in the mail or received on or before the date upon which rents and royalties become due, in order for the lessee and his surety to be relieved from liability for the payment of such royalties and rentals. 


(i) In the event oil or gas is being drained from the leased premises by wells not covered by the lease; the lease, or any part of it may be surrendered, only on such terms and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior may determine to be reasonable and equitable. 




