# ยง 245.207   Certificate requirements.

(a) Each person who becomes a certified dispatcher in accordance with this part shall be issued a paper or electronic certificate that must:


(1) Identify the railroad or parent company that is issuing the certificate;


(2) Indicate that it is a dispatcher certificate;


(3) Provide the following information about the certified person:


(i) Name;


(ii) Employee identification number; and


(iii) Either a physical description or photograph of the person;


(4) Identify any conditions or limitations, including conditions to ameliorate visual or hearing acuity deficiencies, that restrict, limit, or alter the person's abilities to work as a dispatcher;


(5) Show the effective date of the certification;


(6) Show the expiration date of the certification unless the certificate was issued pursuant to ยง 245.105(c) or (d);


(7) Be signed by an individual designated in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; and


(8) Be electronic or be of sufficiently small size to permit being carried in an ordinary pocket wallet.


(b) Each railroad shall designate in writing any person it authorizes to sign the certificates described in this section. The designation shall identify such persons by name or job title.


(c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any railroad from including additional information on the certificate or supplementing the certificate through other documents.


(d) It shall be unlawful for any railroad to knowingly or any individual to willfully:


(1) Make, cause to be made, or participate in the making of a false entry on a certificate; or


(2) Otherwise falsify a certificate through material misstatement, omission, or mutilation.


(e) Except as provided for in paragraph (g) of this section, each certified dispatcher shall:


(1) Have their certificate in their possession while on duty as a dispatcher; and


(2) Display their certificate upon a request from:


(i) An FRA representative;


(ii) A state inspector authorized under part 212 of this chapter;


(iii) An officer of the issuing railroad; or


(iv) An officer of the dispatcher's employer if the dispatcher is not employed by the issuing railroad.


(f) If a dispatcher's certificate is lost, stolen, or mutilated, the railroad shall promptly replace the certificate at no cost to the dispatcher.


(g) A certified dispatcher is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section if:


(1) The railroad made its certification or recertification decision within the last 30 days and the dispatcher has not yet received their certificate; or


(2) The dispatcher's certificate was lost, stolen, or mutilated, and the railroad has not yet issued a replacement certificate to the dispatcher.


(h) Any dispatcher who is notified or called to serve as a dispatcher and such service would cause the dispatcher to exceed certificate limitations, set forth in accordance with subpart B of this part, shall immediately notify the railroad that they are not authorized to perform that anticipated service and it shall be unlawful for the railroad to require such service.


(i) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to alter a certified dispatcher's duty to comply with other provisions of this chapter concerning railroad safety.






