# ยง 230.14   Thirty-one (31) service day inspection.

(a) *General.* An individual competent to conduct the inspection shall perform the 31 service day inspection after the steam locomotive has accrued 31 service days. This inspection shall consist of all 31 service day inspection items and all daily inspection items. See appendix A of this part. Days in service shall be counted, recorded and readily available for inspection when requested by an FRA inspector.


(b) *FRA notification.* FRA Regional Administrators or their delegate(s) may require a steam locomotive owner or operator to provide FRA with timely notification before performing a 31 service day inspection. If the Regional Administrator or their delegate indicates their desire to be present for the 31 service day inspection, the steam locomotive owner and/or operator shall provide them a scheduled date and location for inspection. Once scheduled, the inspection must be performed at the time and place specified, unless the Regional Administrator and the steam locomotive owner and/or operator mutually agree to reschedule. If the Regional Administrator requests the inspection be performed on another date but the steam locomotive owner and/or operator and the Regional Administrator are unable to agree on a date for rescheduling, the inspection may be performed as scheduled.


(c) *Filing inspection reports.* Within 10 days of conducting the 31 service day inspection, the steam locomotive owner and/or operator shall file, for each steam locomotive inspected, a report of inspection (FRA Form No. 1), in the place where the steam locomotive is maintained and with the FRA Regional Administrator for that region. When the report of annual inspection (FRA Form No. 3), is filed, the FRA Form No. 1 does not have to be filed until the next 31 service day inspection. (See appendix B of this part.)




