# § 334.980   Pacific Ocean, around San Nicholas Island, Calif., naval restricted area.

(a) *The area.* (1) *Perimeter (restricted).* The waters of the Pacific Ocean around San Nicholas Island, Calif., extending about 3 miles seaward from the shoreline, described as follows:


(2) *Sections of area.*

(i) ALPHA section is the northerly section of the area, and is described as follows:


(ii) BRAVO section is the westerly section of the area, and is described as follows:


(iii) CHARLIE section is the southerly section of the area, and is described as follows:


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Except during closure periods or as otherwise provided in this section, the restricted area will be open to all vessels.


(2) Boats must remain at least 300 yards from the shoreline of San Nicolas Island at all times. Nothing in this provision shall be construed as authorization to anchor within 300 yards or to land on San Nicolas Island, except in an emergency.


(3) No person, vessel or other craft shall enter the restricted area or designated section(s) during closure periods unless authorized to do so by the Commanding Officer, Naval Base Ventura County or the Officer in Charge, San Nicolas Island.


(4) Submarine cables within the restricted area post a risk to the equipment of vessels engaged in dredging, dragging, seining, anchoring and other bottom contact operations. Appropriate care must be taken to avoid damage.


(5) *Closure periods.* Notice that the restricted area or section(s) ALPHA, BRAVO, or CHARLIE are closed to entry shall be given by radio broadcast Monday through Friday at 0900 and 1200 on 2638 kHz and 2738 kHz or by contacting “PLEAD CONTROL” on VHF-FM radio channel 11 or 16. Closure information may also be requested by telephone between 0600 and 1800 Monday through Friday at (805) 989-8841 or via recorded message at (805) 989-1470.


(6) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by personnel attached to Naval Base Ventura County, Point Mugu, Calif., and by such agencies as may be designated by the Commandant, 11th Naval District, San Diego, Calif.



---

[N] [79 FR 18451, Apr. 2, 2014]




