# § 98.242   GHGs to report.

You must report the information in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:


(a) CO_2_ CH_4_, and N_2_O process emissions from each petrochemical process unit. Process emissions include CO_2_ generated by reaction in the process and by combustion of process off-gas in stationary combustion units and flares.


(1) If you comply with § 98.243(b) or (d), report under this subpart the calculated CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O emissions for each stationary combustion source and flare that burns any amount of petrochemical process off-gas. If you comply with § 98.243(b), also report under this subpart the measured CO_2_ emissions from process vents routed to stacks that are not associated with stationary combustion units.


(2) If you comply with § 98.243(c), report under this subpart the calculated CO_2_ emissions for each petrochemical process unit.


(b) CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O combustion emissions from stationary combustion units.


(1) If you comply with § 98.243(b) or (d), report these emissions from stationary combustion units that are associated with petrochemical process units and burn only supplemental fuel under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C.


(2) If you comply with § 98.243(c), report CO_2_, CH_4_, and N_2_O combustion emissions under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C for all fuels, except emissions from burning petrochemical process off-gas in any combustion unit, including units that are not part of the petrochemical process unit, are not to be reported under subpart C of this part. Determine the applicable Tier in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) based on the maximum rated heat input capacity of the stationary combustion source.


(c) CO_2_ captured. You must report the mass of CO_2_ captured under, subpart PP of this part (Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide (CO_2_) by following the requirements of subpart PP.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79157, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71960, Nov. 29, 2013]










