# ยง 98.11   Definitions.

*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Camelid.* All species of the family *Camelidae,* including camels, guanacos, llamas, alpacas, and vicunas.


*Cervid.* All members of the family *Cervidae* and hybrids, including deer, elk, moose, caribou, reindeer, and related species.


*Collection of embryos.* Embryos removed from a single donor dam in one operation.


*Embryo.* The initial stages of development of an animal, after collection from the natural mother and while it is capable of being transferred to a recipient dam, but not after it has been transferred to a recipient dam.


*Embryo collection unit.* Area or areas where the donor dam will be bred to produce embryos for importation into the United States, and where the embryos will be collected, processed, and stored pending shipment to the United States.


*Foreign Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory.* The Foreign Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


*Herd of origin.* The herd in which the donor dam is kept during the 60 days before the donor dam is required to be housed in an embryo collection unit, in accordance with ยง 98.17(a) of this subpart.


*Import.* To bring into the territorial limits of the United States.


*Inspector.* An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service who is authorized to perform the function involved.


*Official veterinarian.* A full-time salaried veterinarian of the national government of the country of origin or a veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), and designated by APHIS to supervise or conduct procedures required by this subpart, and to certify that requirements of this subpart have been met.


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.);


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Region of origin.* The region in which the embryo is conceived and collected and from which the embryo is imported into the United States.


*Ruminant.* All animals which chew the cud, including cattle, buffaloes, camelids, cervids (deer, elk, moose, and antelope), sheep, goats, and giraffes. 


*Swine.* The domestic hog and all varieties of wild hogs. 


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other territories and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [56 FR 55809, Oct. 30, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 15183, Apr. 5, 1996; 62 FR 56025, Oct. 28, 1997; 78 FR 73008, Dec. 4, 2013]




