# ยง 75.1712-3   Minimum requirements of surface bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities.

(a) All bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities shall be provided with adequate light, heat, and ventilation so as to maintain a comfortable air temperature and to minimize the accumulation of moisture and odors, and such facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. 


(b) Bathing facilities, change rooms, and sanitary toilet facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to comply with applicable State and local building codes: *Provided, however,* That where no State or local building codes apply to such facilities, or where no State or local building codes exist, such facilities shall be constructed and equipped so as to meet the minimum construction requirements of the National Building Code; and the minimum plumbing requirements of the U.S.A. Standard Plumbing Code, ASA A40.8-1955. 


(c) In addition to the minimum requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this ยง 75.1712-3, facilities maintained in accordance with ยง 75.1712-1 shall include the following: 


(1) *Bathing facilities.* (i) Showers shall be provided with both hot and cold water. 


(ii) At least one shower head shall be provided where five or less miners use such showers. 


(iii) Where five or more miners use such showers, sufficient showers shall be furnished to provide approximately one shower head for each five miners. 


(iv) A suitable cleansing agent shall be provided for use at each shower. 


(2) *Sanitary toilet facilities.* (i) At least one sanitary flush toilet shall be provided where 10 or less miners use such facilities. 


(ii) Where 10 or more miners use such sanitary toilet facilities, sufficient toilets shall be furnished to provide approximately one sanitary flush toilet for each 10 miners. 


(iii) Where 30 or more miners use sanitary toilet facilities, one urinal may be substituted for one sanitary flush toilet, however, where such substitutions are made they shall not reduce the number of toilets below a ratio of two toilets to one urinal. 


(iv) An adequate supply of toilet paper shall be provided with each toilet. 


(v) Adequate handwashing facilities or hand lavatories shall be provided in or adjacent to each toilet facility. 


(3) *Change rooms.* (i) Individual clothes storage containers or lockers shall be provided for storage of miners clothing and other incidental personal belongings during and between shifts. 


(ii) Change rooms shall be provided with ample space to permit the use of such facilities by all miners changing clothes prior to and after each shift. 




