# § 1633.12   Labeling.

(a) Each mattress set subject to the Standard shall bear a permanent, conspicuous, and legible label(s) containing the following information (and no other information) in English:


(1) Name of the manufacturer, or for imported mattress sets, the name of the foreign manufacturer and importer;


(2)(i) For mattress sets produced in the United States, the complete physical address of the manufacturer.


(ii) For imported mattress sets, the complete address of the foreign manufacturer, including country, and the complete physical address of the importer or the United States location where the required records are maintained if different from the importer;


(3) Month and year of manufacture;


(4) Model identification;


(5) Prototype identification number for the mattress set;


(6) A certification that the mattress complies with this standard.


(i) For mattresses intended to be sold without a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used without a foundation”; or


(ii) For mattresses intended to be sold with a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used with foundation <*ID*>.” Such foundation(s) shall be clearly identified by a simple and distinct name and/or number on the mattress label; or


(iii) For mattresses intended to be sold both alone and with a foundation, a certification stating “This mattress meets the requirements of 16 CFR part 1633 (federal flammability (open flame) standard for mattresses) when used without a foundation or with foundation(s) <*ID*>.”.Such foundation(s) shall be clearly identified by a simple and distinct name and/or number on the mattress label; and


(7) A statement identifying whether the manufacturer intends the mattress to be sold alone or with a foundation.


(i) For mattresses intended to be sold without a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITHOUT A FOUNDATION.” See Figures 16 and 17 of this part; or


(ii) For mattresses intended to be sold with a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITH FOUNDATION(S): <*Foundation ID*>.” See Figures 12 and 13 of this part; or


(iii) For mattresses intended to be sold both alone and with a foundation, the label shall state “THIS MATTRESS IS INTENDED TO BE USED WITHOUT A FOUNDATION OR WITH FOUNDATION(S): <*Foundation ID*>.” See Figures 14 and 15 of this part.


(b) The mattress label required in paragraph (a) of this section must measure 2
3/4″ in width and the length can increase as needed for varying information. The label must be white with black text. The label text shall comply with the following format requirements:


(1) All information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section must be in 6-point font or larger with mixed uppercase and lowercase letters. The text must be left justified and begin 
1/4″ from left edge of label. See Figure 12-17 of this part.


(2) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section must be in 10-point Arial/Helvetica font or larger, uppercase letters with the words “*WITHOUT* A FOUNDATION” bolded and the word “*WITHOUT*” in italics. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 16 and 17 of this part.


(3) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section must be in 10-point Arial/Helvetica font or larger in uppercase letters. The foundation identifier should be in 12-point font or larger, bolded, and underlined. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 12 and 13 of this part.


(4) The statement specified in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section must be in 10-point or larger Arial/Helvetica font, uppercase letters with the words “*WITHOUT* A FOUNDATION OR” bolded and the word “*WITHOUT*” in italics. The foundation identifier should be in 12-point font or larger, bolded, and underlined. The text shall be centered in a text box with the width measuring 2
1/2″ and the length increasing as needed. See Figures 14 and 15 of this part.


(c) The foundation label required in paragraph (a) of this section must measure 2
3/4″ in width and the length can increase as needed for varying information. The label must be white with black text. The label shall contain the following:


(1) The information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section; and


(2) The words “Foundation ID:” followed by a distinct name and/or number that corresponds to the name and/or number used on the mattress. This text must be in 10-point or larger bold Arial/Helvetica font, and the foundation identifier must be underlined. See Figures 12 through 15 of this part.


(d) The statements specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) and (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section may be translated into any other language and printed on the reverse (blank) side of the label.


(e) No person, other than the ultimate consumer, shall remove or mutilate, or cause or participate in the removal or mutilation of, any label required by this section to be affixed to any item.



---

[N] [71 FR 13498, Mar. 15, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 6843, Feb. 6, 2008]




