# § 42.15   Fees.

(a) On filing a petition for *inter partes* review of a patent, payment of the following fees are due:


(1) *Inter Partes* Review request fee—up to 20 claims: $23,750.00.


(2) *Inter Partes* Review Post-Institution fee—up to 20 claims: $28,125.00.


(3) In addition to the *Inter Partes* Review request fee, for requesting a review of each claim in excess of 20: $470.00.


(4) In addition to the *Inter Partes* Post-Institution request fee, for requesting a review of each claim in excess of 20: $940.00.










(b) On filing a petition for post-grant review or covered business method patent review of a patent, payment of the following fees are due:


(1) Post-Grant or Covered Business Method Patent Review request fee—up to 20 claims: $25,000.00.


(2) Post-Grant or Covered Business Method Patent Review Post-Institution fee—up to 20 claims: $34,375.00.


(3) In addition to the Post-Grant or Covered Business Method Patent Review request fee, for requesting a review of each claim in excess of 20: $595.00.


(4) In addition to the Post-Grant or Covered Business Method Patent Review Post-Institution fee, for requesting a review of each claim in excess of 20: $1,315.00.








(c) On the filing of a petition for a derivation proceeding, payment of the following fee is due:


(1) Derivation petition fee: $452.00.






(2) [Reserved]




(d) Any request requiring payment of a fee under this part, including a written request to make a settlement agreement available: $452.00.


(e) Fee for counsel who are not registered practitioners, and who are not seeking automatic recognition pursuant to § 42.10(c)(2), to appear *pro hac vice* before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board: $269.00.


(f) Fee for requesting a review of a Patent Trial and Appeal Board decision by the Director: $452.00.









---

[N] [85 FR 46993, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 82178, Oct. 10, 2024; 89 FR 92011, Nov. 20, 2024; 90 FR 3037, Jan. 14, 2025]




