# § 98.234   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

The GHG emissions data for petroleum and natural gas emissions sources must be quality assured as applicable as specified in this section. Offshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities shall adhere to the monitoring and QA/QC requirements as set forth in 30 CFR part 550.




(a) You must use any of the methods described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to conduct leak detection(s) of through-valve leakage from all source types listed in § 98.233(k), (o), and (p) that occur during a calendar year. You must use any of the methods described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section to conduct leak detection(s) of equipment leaks from components as specified in § 98.233(q)(1)(i) that occur during a calendar year. You must use any of the methods described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to conduct leak detection(s) of equipment leaks from components as specified in § 98.233(q)(1)(ii) that occur during a calendar year. You must use one of the methods described in paragraph (a)(6) or (7) of this section to conduct leak detection(s) of equipment leaks from components as specified in § 98.233(q)(1)(iii). If electing to comply with § 98.233(q) as specified in § 98.233(q)(1)(iv), you must use any of the methods described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section to conduct leak detection(s) of equipment leaks from component types as specified in § 98.233(q)(1)(iv) that occur during a calendar year.


(1) *Optical gas imaging instrument.* Use an optical gas imaging instrument for equipment leak detection as specified in either paragraph (a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. You may use any of the methods as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section unless you are required to use a specific method in § 98.233(q)(1).


(i) *Optical gas imaging instrument as specified in § 60.18 of this chapter.* Use an optical gas imaging instrument for equipment leak detection in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart A, § 60.18 of the *Alternative work practice for monitoring equipment leaks*, § 60.18(i)(1)(i); § 60.18(i)(2)(i) except that the minimum monitoring frequency shall be annual using the detection sensitivity level of 60 grams per hour as stated in 40 CFR part 60, subpart A, Table 1: *Detection Sensitivity Levels;* § 60.18(i)(2)(ii) and (iii) except the gas chosen shall be methane, and § 60.18(i)(2)(iv) and (v); § 60.18(i)(3); § 60.18(i)(4)(i) and (v); including the requirements for daily instrument checks and distances, and excluding requirements for video records. Any emissions detected by the optical gas imaging instrument from an applicable component is a leak. In addition, you must operate the optical gas imaging instrument to image the source types required by this subpart in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's operating parameters.


(ii) *Optical gas imaging instrument as specified in § 60.5397a of this chapter.* Use an optical gas imaging instrument for equipment leak detection in accordance with § 60.5397a (c)(3) and (7), and (e) of this chapter and paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For the purposes of this subpart, any visible emissions observed by the optical gas imaging instrument from a component required or elected to be monitored as specified in § 98.233(q)(1) is a leak.


(B) For the purposes of this subpart, the term “fugitive emissions component” in § 60.5397a of this chapter means “component.”


(C) For the purpose of complying with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv), the phrase “the collection of fugitive emissions components at well sites and compressor stations” in § 60.5397a of this chapter means “the collection of components for which you elect to comply with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv).”


(iii) *Optical gas imaging instrument as specified in appendix K to part 60 of this chapter*. Use an optical gas imaging instrument for equipment leak detection in accordance with appendix K to part 60, *Determination of Volatile Organic Compound and Greenhouse Gas Leaks Using Optical Gas Imaging.* Any emissions detected by the optical gas imaging instrument from an applicable component is a leak.


(2) *Method 21.* Use the equipment leak detection methods in Method 21 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. You may use either of the methods as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section unless you are required to use a specific method in § 98.233(q)(1). You must survey all applicable source types at the facility needed to conduct a complete equipment leak survey as defined in § 98.233(q)(1). For the purposes of this subpart, the term “fugitive emissions component” in § 60.5397a of this chapter and § 60.5397b of this chapter means “component.”


(i) *Method 21 with a leak definition of 10,000 ppm.* Use the equipment leak detection methods in Method 21 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter using methane as the reference compound. If an instrument reading of 10,000 ppm or greater is measured for any applicable component, a leak is detected.


(ii) *Method 21 with a leak definition of 500 ppm.* Use the equipment leak detection methods in Method 21 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter using methane as the reference compound. If an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured for any applicable component, a leak is detected.


(3) *Infrared laser beam illuminated instrument.* Use an infrared laser beam illuminated instrument for equipment leak detection. Any emissions detected by the infrared laser beam illuminated instrument is a leak. In addition, you must operate the infrared laser beam illuminated instrument to detect the source types required by this subpart in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's operating parameters.




(4) [Reserved]


(5) *Acoustic leak detection device.* Use the acoustic leak detection device to detect through-valve leakage. When using the acoustic leak detection device to quantify the through-valve leakage, you must use the instrument manufacturer's calculation methods to quantify the through-valve leak. When using the acoustic leak detection device, if a leak of 3.1 scf per hour or greater is calculated, a leak is detected. In addition, you must operate the acoustic leak detection device to monitor the source valves required by this subpart in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's operating parameters. Acoustic stethoscope type devices designed to detect through valve leakage when put in contact with the valve body and that provide an audible leak signal but do not calculate a leak rate can be used to identify through-valve leakage. For these acoustic stethoscope type devices, a leak is detected if an audible leak signal is observed or registered by the device. If the acoustic stethoscope type device is used as a screening to a measurement method and a leak is detected, the leak must be measured using any one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.






(b) You must operate and calibrate all flow meters, composition analyzers and pressure gauges used to measure quantities reported in § 98.233 according to the procedures in § 98.3(i) and the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or you may use an industry standard practice. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).


(c) Use calibrated bags (also known as vent bags) only where the emissions are at near-atmospheric pressures and below the maximum temperature specified by the vent bag manufacturer such that the bag is safe to handle. The bag opening must be of sufficient size that the entire emission can be tightly encompassed for measurement till the bag is completely filled.


(1) Hold the bag in place enclosing the emissions source to capture the entire emissions and record the time required for completely filling the bag. If the bag inflates in less than one second, assume one second inflation time.


(2) Perform three measurements of the time required to fill the bag, report the emissions as the average of the three readings.


(3) Estimate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in § 98.233(t).


(4) Estimate CH_4_ and CO_2_ volumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using the calculations in § 98.233(u) and (v).


(d) Use a high volume sampler to measure emissions within the capacity of the instrument.


(1) A technician following manufacturer instructions shall conduct measurements, including equipment manufacturer operating procedures and measurement methods relevant to using a high volume sampler, including positioning the instrument for complete capture of the equipment leak without creating backpressure on the source.


(2) If the high volume sampler, along with all attachments available from the manufacturer, is not able to capture all the emissions from the source then use anti-static wraps or other aids to capture all emissions without violating operating requirements as provided in the instrument manufacturer's manual.


(3) For high volume samplers that output methane mass emissions, you must use the calculations in § 98.233(u) and (v) in reverse to determine the natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions. For high volume samplers that output methane volumetric flow in actual conditions, divide the volumetric methane flow rate by the mole fraction of methane in the natural gas according to the provisions in § 98.233(u) and estimate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in § 98.233(t). Estimate CH_4_ and CO_2_ volumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using the calculations in § 98.233(u) and (v).




(4) Calibrate the instrument at 2.5 percent methane with 97.5 percent air and 100 percent CH_4_ by using calibrated gas samples and by following manufacturer's instructions for calibration.


(5) If the measured methane flow exceeds the manufacturer's reported quantitation limit or if the measured natural gas flow determined as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section exceeds 70 percent of the manufacturer's reported maximum sampling flow rate, then the flow exceeds the capacity of the instrument and you must either use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to paragraph (b) of this section or use calibrated bags according to paragraph (c) of this section to determine the leak or flow rate. If you elect to use OGI to demonstrate that 100 percent of the flow is captured by the high volume sampler throughout the measurement period, then the measured flow rate above the 70 percent maximum sampling rate provision can be used. However, if any emissions are observed via OGI escaping capture of the high volume sampler during a measurement period, then that measurement is considered invalid (*i.e.,* considered to be exceeding the quantitation capacity of the device) even if the measured flow rate is less than 70 percent of the sampling rate and you must either use a temporary or permanent flow meter according to paragraph (b) of this section or use calibrated bags according to paragraph (c) of this section to determine the leak or flow rate.


(e) Peng Robinson Equation of State means the equation of state defined by equation W-47 to this section:


(f) [Reserved]


(g) [Reserved]


(h) For well venting for liquids unloading, if a monitoring period other than the full calendar year is used to determine the cumulative amount of time in hours of venting for each well (the term “T_p_” in Equation W-7A and W-7B of § 98.233) or the number of unloading events per well (the term “V_p_” in Equations W-8 and W-9 of § 98.233), then the monitoring period must begin before February 1 of the reporting year and must not end before December 1 of the reporting year. The end of one monitoring period must immediately precede the start of the next monitoring period for the next reporting year. All production days must be monitored and all venting accounted for.


(i) You must use any of the applicable methods described in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section to conduct a performance test to determine the concentration of CH4 in the exhaust gas. This concentration must be used to develop a CH4 emission factor (kg/MMBtu) for estimating combustion slip from reciprocating internal combustion engines or gas turbines as specified in § 98.233(z)(4). You may not conduct performance tests during period of startup, shutdown or malfunction. You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test. Each test run must be conducted within 10 percent of 100 percent peak (or the highest achievable) load and last at least 1 hour.


(1) EPA Method 18 in appendix A-6 to part 60 of this chapter.


(2) EPA Method 320 in appendix A to part 63 of this chapter.


(3) ASTM D6348-12 (Reapproved 2020) (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).


(4) EPA Method 25A in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, with the use of nonmethane cutter as described in § 1065.265 of this chapter.



---

[N] [75 FR 74488, Nov. 30, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 22827, Apr. 25, 2011; 76 FR 59540, Sept. 27, 2011; 76 FR 80586, Dec. 23, 2011; 78 FR 25395, May 1, 2013; 79 FR 70410, Nov. 25, 2014; 80 FR 64291, Oct. 22, 2015; 81 FR 86514, Nov. 30, 2016; 89 FR 42287, May 14, 2024]




