# 52.249-6   Termination (Cost-Reimbursement).

As prescribed in 49.503(a)(1), insert the following clause:


*Alternate I* (SEP 1996). If the contract is for construction, substitute the following subparagraph (h)(4) for subparagraph (h)(4) of the basic clause:


*Alternate II* (SEP 1996). If the contract is with an agency of the U.S. Government or with State, local, or foreign governments or their agencies, and if the contracting officer determines that the requirement to pay interest on excess partial payments is inappropriate, delete subparagraph (m)(2) from the basic clause.


*Alternate III* (SEP 1996). If the contract is for construction with an agency of the U.S. Government or with State, local, or foreign governments or their agencies, the following subparagraph (h)(4) shall be substituted for subparagraph (h)(4) of the basic clause. Subparagraph (m)(2) may be deleted from the basic clause if the contracting officer determines that the requirement to pay interest on excess partial payments is inappropriate.


*Alternate IV* (SEP 1996). If the contract is a time-and-material or labor-hour contract, substitute the following paragraphs (h) and (l) for paragraphs (h) and (l) of the basic clause:


*Alternate V* (SEP 1996). If the contract is a time-and-material or labor-hour contract with an agency of the U.S. Government or with State, local or foreign governments or their agencies, substitute the following paragraphs (h) and (l) for paragraphs (h) and (l) of the basic clause. Subparagraph (m)(2) may be deleted from the basic clause if the contracting officer determines that the requirement to pay interest on excess partial payments is inappropriate.



---

[N] [48 FR 42478, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 51 FR 19717, May 30, 1986; 61 FR 39223, July 26, 1996; 69 FR 17750, Apr. 5, 2004]




