# § 668.191   New data adjustments.

(a) *Eligibility.* You may request a new data adjustment for your most recent cohort of borrowers, used to calculate your most recent official cohort default rate, if—


(1) A comparison of the loan record detail reports that we provide to you for the draft and official cohort default rates shows that the data have been newly included, excluded, or otherwise changed; and


(2) You identify errors in the data described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that are confirmed by the data manager.


(b) *Deadlines for requesting a new data adjustment.* (1) You must send to the relevant data manager, or data managers, and us a request for a new data adjustment, including all supporting documentation, within 15 days after you receive your loan record detail report from us.


(2) Within 20 days after receiving your request for a new data adjustment, the data manager must send you and us a response that—


(i) Addresses each of your allegations of error; and


(ii) Includes the documentation used to support the data manager's position.


(3) Within 15 days after receiving a guaranty agency's notice that we hold an FFELP loan about which you are inquiring, you must send us your request for a new data adjustment for that loan. We respond to your request as set forth under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(4) Within 15 days after receiving incomplete or illegible records or data from a data manager, you must send a request for replacement records or clarification of data to the data manager and us.


(5) Within 20 days after receiving your request for replacement records or clarification of data, the data manager must—


(i) Replace the missing or illegible records;


(ii) Provide clarifying information; or


(iii) Notify you and us that no clarifying information or additional or improved records are available.


(6) You must send us your completed request for a new data adjustment, including all supporting documentation—


(i) Within 30 days after you receive the final data manager's response to your request or requests; or


(ii) If you are also filing an erroneous data appeal or a loan servicing appeal, by the latest of the filing dates required in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section or in § 668.192(b)(6)(i) or § 668.193(c)(10)(i).


(c) *Determination.* If we determine that incorrect data were used to calculate your cohort default rate, we recalculate your cohort default rate based on the correct data and electronically correct the rate that is publicly released.



---

[N] [74 FR 55651, Oct. 28, 2009]




