# § 48.6416(b)(3)-2   Further manufacture included.

(a) *In general.* The payment of tax imposed by chapter 32 on the sale of any article (other than coal taxable under section 4121) by a manufacturer of the article will be considered to be an overpayment by reason of any use in further manufacture, or sale as part of a second manufactured article, described in any one of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. This section applies in those cases where the exportation, use, or sale (or any combination of those activities) referred to in any one or more of those paragraphs occurs before any other use. For provisions relating to overpayments arising by reason of resales of tax-paid articles for use in further manufacture as provided in this section, see section 6416(b)(2)(E) and paragraph (f) of § 48.6416(b)(2)-2.


(b) *Use of tax-paid articles in further manufacture described in section 6416(b)(3)(A).* A payment of tax under chapter 32 on the sale of any article (other than coal taxable under section 4121), directly or indirectly, by the manufacturer of the article to a subsequent manufacturer will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(3)(A) if the article is used by the subsequent manufacturer as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part of, a second article manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer which is—


(1) Taxable under chapter 32, or


(2) An automobile bus chassis or an automobile bus body.


(c) *Use of truck, bus, etc., parts or accessories.* A payment of tax under section 4061 (b) on the sale prior to January 7, 1983, of any truck, bus, etc., part or accessory, directly or indirectly, by the manufacturer of the article to a subsequent manufacturer will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(3)(B) if the part or accessory is used by the subsequent manufacturer as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part of, a second article manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer. For this purpose it is immaterial whether the second article is or is not taxable under chapter 32. Any article to which this paragraph (c) applies which would have been used in the manufacture or production of a second article, except for the fact that it was broken or rendered useless in the process of manufacturing or producing the second article, will be considered to have been used as a component part of the second article.


(d) *Tax-paid tires or inner tubes used in further manufacture.* (1) A payment of tax under section 4071 on the sale prior to January 1, 1984, of a tire or inner tube, directly or indirectly, by the manufacturer of the article to a subsequent manufacturer will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(3)(C) if the subsequent manufacturer sells the tire or inner tube on or in connection with, or with the sale of, any other article manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer and if the other article is—


(i) An automobile bus chassis or automobile bus body, or


(ii) By any person (A) exported to a foreign country or to a possession of the United States, (B) sold to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia for the exclusive use of a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, (C) sold to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use, or (D) used or sold for use as supplies to vessels or aircraft.


For tax-paid tires used in further manufacture after December 31, 1983, see section 6416(b)(3)(A) and the regulations thereunder.


(2) The overpayment in this paragraph (d) is to be distinguished from that overpayment described in section 6416(b)(2)(E) and § 48.6416(b)(2)-2(f) in that this overpayment arises from the “use” described in this paragraph, whereas the overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(E) arises from the “resale” of tax-paid tires or inner tubes by any person to a subsequent manufacturer who disposes of the articles on or in connection with, or with the sale of, a second article manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer which is disposed of on the basis of one of the exemptions set forth in section 6416(b)(3)(C).


(3) If the second article is exported or shipped as provided in this paragraph (d), it is immaterial whether the subsequent manufacturer sold the article with the knowledge that it would be exported or shipped.


(4) An overpayment arises under paragraph (d)(1) of this section only if the tire or inner tube constitutes a part of, or is associated with, the second article at the time the second article is exported, shipped, sold, used, or sold for use, as prescribed in this paragraph.


(5) For definition of certain terms used in this paragraph, see section 4221 and the regulations thereunder.


(6) For provisions relating to overpayments arising by reason of tires or inner tubes sold tax-paid by the manufacturer of the same, on or in connection with, or with the sale of, any article manufactured or produced by that manufacturer and exported, sold, or used or sold for use, as provided in this paragraph (d), see section 6416(b)(4).


(7) For provisions relating to credit allowable in respect of tires and inner tubes sold on or in connection with, or with the sale of, another article taxable under chapter 32, prior to January 1, 1984, see section 6416(c) and § 48.6416(c)-1.


(8) If a second article referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is sold for a use described in that paragraph and is not so used, this paragraph (d) is in all respects inapplicable.


(e) *Use of bicycle tires or tubes in further manufacture.* A payment of tax under section 4071 on the sale, prior to January 1, 1984, of a bicycle or tricycle tire or inner tube, directly or indirectly, by the manufacturer of the same to a subsequent manufacturer will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(3)(E) if the tire or tube is used by the subsequent manufacturer as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part of, a bicycle or tricycle manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer which is not a rebuilt or reconditioned bicycle or tricycle. For definition of the term “bicycle tire”, see section 4221(e)(4)(B) and the regulations thereunder.


(f) *Use of gasoline in further manufacture.* A payment of tax under section 4081 on the sale of gasoline, directly or indirectly, by the manufacturer of the same to a subsequent manufacturer will be considered an overpayment under section 6416(b)(3)(B) if the gasoline is used for nonfuel purposes by the subsequent manufacturer as a material in the manufacture or production of any other article manufactured or produced by the subsequent manufacturer. For this purpose it is immaterial whether the other article is or is not taxable under chapter 32. For provisions relating to the use of gasoline for nonfuel purposes, see section 4221 and the regulations thereunder.



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32030, Aug. 8, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8748, 63 FR 15292, Mar. 31, 1998]




