# ยง 301.6229(f)-1   Special rule for partial settlement agreements.

(a) *In general.* If a partner enters into a settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service with respect to the treatment of some of the partnership items or partnership-level determinations of any penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount in dispute for a partnership taxable year, but one or more other partnership items or determinations remain in dispute, the period of limitations for assessing any tax attributable to the settled items shall be determined as if such agreement had not been entered into. 


(b) *Other items remaining in dispute.* Pursuant to section 6226(c), a partner is a party to a partnership-level judicial proceeding with respect to partnership items and partnership-level determinations of penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts. When a partner settles partnership items, the settled partnership items convert to nonpartnership items under section 6231(b)(1)(C) and will not be subject to any future or pending partnership-level proceeding pursuant to section 6226(d)(1). The remaining unsettled partnership items, as well as any unsettled penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item (regardless of whether the partnership item to which it relates has been settled), however, will remain subject to determination under partnership-level administrative and judicial procedures. Consequently, any remaining unsettled items, including any unsettled penalty, addition to tax, or additional amount that relates to an adjustment to a partnership item, will be deemed to remain in dispute. Thus, the period for assessing any tax attributable to the settled items will be governed by the period for assessing any tax attributable to the remaining unsettled items. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see ยง 301.6229(f)-1T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50555, Oct. 4, 2001]




