# § 415.102   Conditions for fee schedule payment for physician services to beneficiaries in providers.

(a) *General rule.* If the physician furnishes services to beneficiaries in providers, the carrier pays on a fee schedule basis provided the following requirements are met: 


(1) The services are personally furnished for an individual beneficiary by a physician. 


(2) The services contribute directly to the diagnosis or treatment of an individual beneficiary. 


(3) The services ordinarily require performance by a physician. 


(4) In the case of radiology or laboratory services, the additional requirements in § 415.120 or § 415.130, respectively, are met. 


(b) *Exception.* If a physician furnishes services in a provider that do not meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, but are related to beneficiary care furnished by the provider, the intermediary pays for those services, if otherwise covered. The intermediary follows the rules in §§ 415.55 and 415.60 for payment on the basis of reasonable cost or PPS, as appropriate. 


(c) *Effect of billing charges for physician services to a provider.* (1) If a physician furnishes services that may be paid under the reasonable cost rules in § 415.55 or § 415.60, and paid by the intermediary, or would be paid under those rules except for the PPS rules in part 412 of this chapter, and under the payment rules for GME established by §§ 413.75 through 413.83 of this chapter, neither the provider nor the physician may seek payment from the carrier, beneficiary, or another insurer. 


(2) If a physician furnishes services to an individual beneficiary that do not meet the applicable conditions in §§ 415.120 (concerning conditions for payment for radiology services) and 415.130 (concerning conditions for payment for physician pathology services), the carrier does not pay on a fee schedule basis. 


(3) If the physician, the provider, or another entity bills the carrier or the beneficiary or another insurer for physician services furnished to the provider, as described in § 415.55(a), CMS considers the provider to which the services are furnished to have violated its provider participation agreement, and may terminate that agreement. See part 489 of this chapter for rules governing provider agreements. 


(d) *Effect of physician assumption of operating costs.* If a physician or other entity enters into an agreement (such as a lease or concession) with a provider, and the physician (or entity) assumes some or all of the operating costs of the provider department in which the physician furnishes physician services, the following rules apply: 


(1) If the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are met, the carrier pays for the physician services under the physician fee schedule in part 414 of this chapter. 


(2) To the extent the provider incurs a cost payable on a reasonable cost basis under part 413 of this chapter, the intermediary pays the provider on a reasonable cost basis for the costs associated with producing these services, including overhead, supplies, equipment costs, and services furnished by nonphysician personnel. 


(3) The physician (or other entity) is treated as being related to the provider within the meaning of § 413.17 of this chapter (concerning cost to related organizations). 


(4) The physician (or other entity) must make its books and records available to the provider and the intermediary as necessary to verify the nature and extent of the costs of the services furnished by the physician (or other entity). 



---

[N] [60 FR 63178, Dec. 8, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 47490, Aug. 12, 2005] 




