# ยง 6.8   Specified exceptions.

(a) Positions in the Department of the Interior and in the Department of Commerce whose incumbents serve as the principal representative of the Secretary in their respective regions shall be listed in Schedule C for grades not exceeding grade GS-15 of the General Schedule, and shall be designated Noncareer Executive Assignments for positions graded higher than GS-15. Incumbents of these positions who are, on February 15, 1975, in the competitive service shall not be affected by the foregoing provisions of this section. 


(b) Positions in the Community Services Administration and ACTION whose incumbents serve as regional director or regional administrator shall be listed in Schedule C for grades not exceeding GS-15 of the General Schedule and shall be designated Noncareer Executive Assignments for positions graded higher than GS-15. Incumbents of these positions who are, on November 29, 1977, in the competitive service shall not be affected by the foregoing provisions of this subsection. 


(c) Within the Department of Agriculture, positions in the Agriculture Stabilization and Conservation Service the incumbents of which serve as State Executive Directors and positions in the Farmers Home Administration the incumbents of which serve as State Directors or State Directors-at-Large shall be listed in Schedule C for all grades of the General Schedule.


(d) Effective on July 10, 2018, the position of administrative law judge appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105 shall be listed in Schedule E for all levels of basic pay under 5 U.S.C. 5372(b). Incumbents of this position who are, on July 10, 2018, in the competitive service shall remain in the competitive service as long as they remain in their current positions.



---

[N] [E.O. 11839, 40 FR 7351, Feb. 19, 1975, as amended by E.O. 11887, 40 FR 51411, Nov. 5, 1975; E.O. 12021, 42 FR 61237, Dec. 2, 1977; 47 FR 4227, Jan. 29, 1982; E.O. 13843, 83 FR 32755, July 13, 2018] 




