# ยง 344.4   What are Time Deposit securities?

Time Deposit securities are issued as certificates of indebtedness, notes, or bonds.


(a) *What are the maturity periods?* The issuer must fix the maturity periods for Time Deposit securities, which are issued as follows:


(1) *Certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest.* For certificates of indebtedness that do not bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than fifteen days and not more than one year.


(2) *Certificates of indebtedness that bear interest.* For certificates of indebtedness that bear interest, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than thirty days and not more than one year.


(3) *Notes.* For notes, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than one year and one day, and not more than ten years.


(4) *Bonds.* For bonds, the issuer can fix a maturity period of not less than ten years and one day, and not more than forty years.


(b) *How do I select the SLGS rate?* For each security, the issuer shall designate an interest rate that does not exceed the maximum interest rate shown in the daily SLGS rate table as defined in ยง 344.1.


(1) *When is the SLGS rate table released?* We release the SLGS rate table to the public by 10 a.m. Eastern time each business day or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the SLGS rate table is not available by 11 a.m. Eastern time on any given business day, the SLGS rate table for the preceding business day applies.


(2) *How do I lock-in a SLGS rate?* The applicable daily SLGS rate table for a SLGSafe subscription is the one in effect on the business day that you start the subscription process. This table is shown on Fiscal Service's Application server.


(3) *Where can I find the SLGS rate table?* The SLGS rate table can be obtained at Fiscal Service's Web site.


(c) *How are interest computation and payment dates determined?* Interest on a certificate of indebtedness is computed on an annual basis and is paid at maturity with the principal. Interest on a note or bond is paid semi-annually. The issuer specifies the first interest payment date, which must be at least thirty days and less than or equal to one year from the date of issue. The final interest payment date must coincide with the maturity date of the security. Interest for other than a full interest period is computed on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year (for certificates of indebtedness) and on the basis of the exact number of days in the half-year (for notes and bonds). See the appendix to subpart E to part 306 of this subchapter for rules regarding computation of interest. 



---

[N] [70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]










