# § 512.365   Performance assessment.

(a) *General.* For each MY, CMS separately assesses the home dialysis rate and the transplant rate for each ETC Participant based on the population of ESRD Beneficiaries and, if applicable, Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries attributed to the ETC Participant under § 512.360. Information used to calculate the home dialysis rate and the transplant rate includes Medicare claims data, Medicare administrative data, and data from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients.


(b) *Home dialysis rate.* CMS calculates the home dialysis rate for ESRD facilities and Managing Clinicians as follows.


(1) *Home dialysis rate for ESRD facilities.* (i) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that one beneficiary year is composed of 12 beneficiary months. Months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X.


(ii) For MY1 and MY2, the numerator is the total number of home dialysis treatment beneficiary years plus one half the total number of self dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. For MY3 through MY10, the numerator is the total number of home dialysis treatment beneficiary years, plus one half the total number of self dialysis treatment beneficiary years, plus one half the total number of nocturnal in center dialysis beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY.


(A) Home dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received maintenance dialysis at home, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X and condition codes 74 or 76.


(B) Self dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received self dialysis in center, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received self dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X and condition code 72.


(C) Nocturnal in center dialysis beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received nocturnal in center dialysis, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received nocturnal in center dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X and modifier UJ.


(iii) Information used to calculate the ESRD facility home dialysis rate includes Medicare claims data and Medicare administrative data.


(iv) The ESRD facility home dialysis rate is aggregated, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(2) *Home dialysis rate for Managing Clinicians.* (i) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that one beneficiary year is comprised of 12 beneficiary months. Months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with CPT codes 90957, 90958, 90959, 90960, 90961, 90962, 90965, or 90966.


(ii) For MY1 and MY2, the numerator is the total number of home dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY plus one half the total number of self dialysis treatment beneficiary years. For MY3 through MY10, the numerator is the total number of home dialysis treatment beneficiary years, plus one half the total number of self dialysis treatment beneficiary years, plus one half the total number of nocturnal in center dialysis beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY.


(A) Home dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received maintenance dialysis at home, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home are identified by claims with CPT codes 90965 or 90966.


(B) Self-dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received self dialysis in center, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received self dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X and condition code 72.


(C) Nocturnal in center dialysis beneficiary years included in the numerator are composed of those months during which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries received nocturnal in center dialysis, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received nocturnal in center dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X and modifier UJ.


(iii) Information used to calculate the Managing Clinician home dialysis rate includes Medicare claims data and Medicare administrative data.


(iv) The Managing Clinician home dialysis rate is aggregated, as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(c) *Transplant rate.* CMS calculates the transplant rate for ETC Participants as follows.


(1) *Transplant rate for ESRD facilities.* The transplant rate for ESRD facilities is the sum of the transplant waitlist rate for ESRD facilities, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, and the living donor transplant rate for ESRD facilities, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Transplant waitlist rate for ESRD facilities.* (A) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. For MY1 and MY2, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month. For MY3 through MY10, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month, or had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY.


(*1*) An attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a diagnosis of vital solid organ cancer in an MY if the beneficiary had any of the following diagnosis codes on any claim during the MY or the 6 months prior to the start of the MY: C22.0, C22.1, C22.2, C22.3, C22.4, C22.7, C22.8, C22.9, C34.10-C34.12, C34.2, C34.30-C34.32, C34.80-C34.82, C34.90-C34.92, C38.0, C38.8, C46.50-C46.52, C64.1, C64.2, C64.2, C78.00-C78.02, C78.7, C79.00-C79.02, C7A.090, C7A.093, or C7B.02.


(*2*) An attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY if the beneficiary had a claim with any of the following procedure codes on any claim during the MY or the 6 months prior to the start of the MY:


(*i*) CPT® 96401-96402, 96405-96406, 96409, 96411, 96413, 96415-96417, 96420, 96422-26423, 96425, 96440, 96446, 96549, 77373, 77401-77402, 77407, 77412, 77423, 77424-77425, 77520, 77522-77523, 77525, 77761-77763, 77770-77772, 77778, 77789, 77799, 79005, 79101, 79200, 79300, 79403, 79440, 79445, 79999.


(*ii*) ICD-10-PCS® DB020ZZ, DB021ZZ, DB022ZZ, DB023Z0, DB023ZZ, DB024ZZ, DB025ZZ, DB026ZZ, DB1297Z, DB1298Z, DB1299Z, DB129BZ, DB129CZ, DB129YZ, DB12B6Z, DB12B7Z, DB12B8Z, DB12B9Z, DB12BB1, DB12BBZ, DB12BCZ, DB12BYZ, DB22DZZ, DB22HZZ, DB22JZZ, DBY27ZZ, DBY28ZZ, DBY2FZZ, DBY2KZZ, DB070ZZ, DB071ZZ, DB072ZZ, DB073Z0, DB073ZZ, DB074ZZ, DB075ZZ, DB076ZZ, DB1797Z, DB1798Z, DB1799Z, DB179BZ, DB179CZ, DB179YZ, DB17B6Z, DB17B7Z, DB17B8Z, DB17B9Z, DB17BB1, DB17BBZ, DB17BCZ, DB17BYZ, DB27DZZ, DB27HZZ, DB27JZZ, DBY77ZZ, DBY78ZZ, DBY7FZZ, DBY7KZZ, DF000ZZ, DF001ZZ, DF002ZZ, DF003Z0, DF003ZZ, DF004ZZ, DF005ZZ, DF006ZZ, DF1097Z, DF1098Z, DF1099Z, DF109BZ, DF109CZ, DF109YZ, DF10B6Z, DF10B7Z, DF10B8Z, DF10B9Z, DF10BB1, DF10BBZ, DF10BCZ, DF10BYZ, DF20DZZ, DF20HZZ, DF20JZZ, DFY07ZZ, DFY08ZZ, DFY0CZZ, DFY0FZZ, DFY0KZZ, DT000ZZ, DT001ZZ, DT002ZZ, DT003Z0, DT003ZZ, DT004ZZ, DT005ZZ, DT006ZZ, DT1097Z, DT1098Z, DT1099Z, DT109BZ, DT109CZ, DT109YZ, DT10B6Z, DT10B7Z, DT10B8Z, DT10B9Z, DT10BB1, DT10BBZ, DT10BCZ, DT10BYZ, DT20DZZ, DT20HZZ, DT20JZZ, DTY07ZZ, DTY08ZZ, DTY0CZZ, DTY0FZZ, DW020ZZ, DW021ZZ, DW022ZZ, DW023Z0, DW023ZZ, DW024ZZ, DW025ZZ, DW026ZZ, DW1297Z, DW1298Z, DW1299Z, DW129BZ, DW129CZ, DW129YZ, DW12B6Z, DW12B7Z, DW12B8Z, DW12B9Z, DW12BB1, DW12BBZ, DW12BCZ, DW12BYZ, DW22DZZ, DW22HZZ, DW22JZZ, DWY27ZZ, DWY28ZZ, DWY2FZZ, DW030ZZ, DW031ZZ, DW032ZZ, DW033Z0, DW033ZZ, DW034ZZ, DW035ZZ, DW036ZZ, DW1397Z, DW1398Z, DW1399Z, DW139BZ, DW139CZ, DW139YZ, DW13B6Z, DW13B7Z, DW13B8Z, DW13B9Z, DW13BB1, DW13BBZ, DW13BCZ, DB13BYZ, DW23DZZ, DW23HZZ, DW23JZZ, DWY37ZZ, DWY38ZZ, DWY3FZZ, DW050ZZ, DW051ZZ, DW052ZZ, DW053Z0, DW053ZZ, DW054ZZ, DW055ZZ, DW056ZZ, DWY57ZZ, DWY58ZZ, DWY5FZZ, DWY5GDZ, DWY5GFZ, DWY5GGZ, DWY5GHZ, DWY5GYZ.


(B) The numerator is the total number of attributed beneficiary years for which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries were on the kidney transplant waitlist. Months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary was on the kidney transplant waitlist are identified using data from the SRTR database.


(ii) *Living donor transplant rate for ESRD facilities.* (A) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. For MY1 and MY2, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month. For MY3 through MY10, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with Type of Bill 072X, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month, or had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a diagnosis of vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section.


(B) The numerator is the total number of attributed beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries during the MY. Beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries included in the numerator are composed of those months between the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the transplant for LDT Beneficiaries attributed to an ESRD facility during the month of the transplant. LDT Beneficiaries are identified using information about living donor transplants from the SRTR Database and Medicare claims data.


(iii) The ESRD facility transplant waitlist rate is risk adjusted, as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The ESRD facility transplant rate is aggregated, as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(2) *Transplant rate for Managing Clinicians.* The transplant rate for Managing Clinicians is the sum of the transplant waitlist rate for Managing Clinicians, as described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, and the living donor transplant rate for Managing Clinicians, as described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) *Transplant waitlist rate for Managing Clinicians.* (A) The denominator is the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY. Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. For MY1 and MY2, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with CPT codes 90957, 90958, 90959, 90960, 90961, 90962, 90965, or 90966, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month. For MY3 through MY10, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with CPT codes 90957, 90958, 90959, 90960, 90961, 90962, 90965, or 90966, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month, or had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a diagnosis of vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section.


(B) The numerator is the total number of attributed beneficiary years for which attributed ESRD Beneficiaries were on the kidney transplant waitlist. Months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary was on the kidney transplant waitlist are identified using data from the SRTR database.


(ii) *Living donor transplant rate for Managing Clinicians.* (A) The denominator is the sum of the total dialysis treatment beneficiary years for attributed ESRD Beneficiaries during the MY and the total Pre-emptive LDT beneficiary years for attributed beneficiaries during the MY.


(*1*) Dialysis treatment beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis at home or in an ESRD facility, such that 1-beneficiary year is comprised of 12-beneficiary months. For MY1 and MY2, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with CPT codes 90957, 90958, 90959, 90960, 90961, 90962, 90965, or 90966, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month. For MY3 through MY10, months during which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received maintenance dialysis are identified by claims with CPT codes 90957, 90958, 90959, 90960, 90961, 90962, 90965, or 90966, excluding claims for beneficiaries who were 75 years of age or older at any point during the month, or had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section.


(*2*) MY1 and MY2, Pre-emptive LDT beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which a Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiary is attributed to a Managing Clinician, from the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the living donor transplant. For MY3 through MY10, Pre-emptive LDT beneficiary years included in the denominator are composed of those months during which a Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiary is attributed to a Managing Clinician, from the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the living donor transplant, excluding beneficiaries who had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis and were receiving treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer during the MY. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary had a vital solid organ cancer diagnosis are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) of this section. Months in which an attributed ESRD Beneficiary received treatment with chemotherapy or radiation for vital solid organ cancer are identified as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section. Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries are identified using information about living donor transplants from the SRTR Database and Medicare claims data.


(B) The numerator is the sum of the total number of attributed beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries during the MY and the total number of attributed beneficiary years for Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries during the MY.


(*1*) Beneficiary years for LDT Beneficiaries included in the numerator are composed of those months during which an LDT Beneficiary is attributed to a Managing Clinician, from the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the transplant. LDT Beneficiaries are identified using information about living donor transplants from the SRTR Database and Medicare claims data.


(*2*) Beneficiary years for Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries included in the numerator are composed of those months during which a Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiary is attributed to a Managing Clinician, from the beginning of the MY up to and including the month of the transplant. Pre-emptive LDT Beneficiaries are identified using information about living donor transplants from the SRTR Database and Medicare claims data.


(iii) The Managing Clinician transplant waitlist rate is risk adjusted, as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The Managing Clinician transplant rate is aggregated, as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(d) *Risk adjustment.* (1) CMS risk adjusts the transplant waitlist rate based on beneficiary age with separate risk coefficients for the following age categories of beneficiaries, with age computed on the last day of each month of the MY:


(i) 18 to 55.


(ii) 56 to 70.


(iii) 71 to 74.


(2) CMS risk adjusts the transplant waitlist rate to account for the relative percentage of the population of beneficiaries attributed to the ETC Participant in each age category relative to the national age distribution of beneficiaries not excluded from attribution.


(e) *Aggregation*—(1) *Aggregation for ESRD facilities.* An ESRD facility's home dialysis rate and transplant rate are aggregated to the ESRD facility's aggregation group. The aggregation group for a Subsidiary ESRD facility includes all ESRD facilities owned in whole or in part by the same legal entity located in the HRR in which the ESRD facility is located. An ESRD facility that is not a Subsidiary ESRD facility is not included in an aggregation group.


(2) *Aggregation for Managing Clinicians.* A Managing Clinician's home dialysis rate and transplant rate are aggregated to the Managing Clinician's aggregation group. The aggregation group for a Managing Clinician who is—


(i) In a group practice is the practice group level, as identified by practice TIN; or


(ii) A solo practitioner is the individual clinician level, as identified by NPI.



---

[N] [85 FR 61362, Sept. 29, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 62021, Nov. 8, 2021]




