# § 124.702   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act.


*Department* means the Department of Health and Human Services.


*Expected useful life* means the period of time during which the structure may reasonably be expected to perform the function for which it was designed or intended.


*Facility* means a facility with respect to which grant funds were paid under any of the authorizations listed in § 124.701.


*Fiscal year* means the facility's fiscal year.


*Nonprofit,* as applied to any facility, means a facility that is owned and operated by one or more nonprofit corporations or associations no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated.


*State agency* means (1) in the case of a facility with respect to which a grant was made under title VI of the Public Health Service Act or any of the statutes listed in § 124.701(b), the State agency designated pursuant to section 604 of the Public Health Service Act or its successor agency, and (2) in the case of a facility with respect to which a grant was made under title XVI of the Public Health Service Act, the State health planning and development agency designated pursuant to title XV of the Public Health Service Act.


*Then value* means the value of the facility on the date the facility is sold, transferred or ceases to be used for a permissible use as described in § 124.704.




