# § 24.332   Hard cider materials.

This section pertains to wine that is eligible for the hard cider tax rate as set out in § 24.331.


(a) *Apples and pears.* Wine will be considered to be derived primarily from apples or pears, or from apple juice concentrate or pear juice concentrate and water, if the apple juice, pear juice, or combination of apple and pear juice, or the equivalent amount of concentrate of apple and/or pear juice reconstituted to the original brix of the juice prior to concentration, or any combination thereof, represents more than 50 percent of the volume of the finished product.


(b) *Fruit products.* (1) Wine is not eligible for the hard cider tax rate if it contains any fruit product other than apple or pear. A fruit product is any material derived or made from any fruit or part of a fruit, including but not limited to, concentrates, extracts, juices, powders, or wine spirits.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 24.332(b)(1), an authorized wine treating material set forth in § 24.246 that is derived from a fruit other than apple or pear may be used in the production of wine otherwise eligible for the hard cider tax rate if it is used for a purpose other than flavoring and it is either used in accordance with the wine treating materials provisions of § 24.246 (if used in a natural wine), or used in amounts insufficient to impart a fruit flavor other than apple or pear (if used in a special natural wine or other than standard wine). In determining whether the use of wine treating materials derived from a fruit other than apple or pear is for a purpose other than flavoring, TTB will consider such factors as the labeling and advertising of the product. Any written or pictorial reference to a material derived from a fruit other than apple or pear (other than the inclusion of a wine treating material in an ingredient labeling statement) in the labeling or advertising of a wine will be treated as evidence that the wine treating material was added for the purpose of flavoring the wine.


(c) *Flavorings.* Wine is not eligible for the hard cider tax rate if it contains any fruit flavoring other than apple or pear. For purposes of this section, a fruit flavoring other than apple or pear is any flavoring that imparts the flavor of a fruit other than apple or pear and includes a natural fruit flavor, an artificial fruit flavor, and a natural flavor that artificially imparts the flavor of a fruit that is not contained in that flavor. In determining whether the use of a flavoring imparts the flavor of a fruit other than apple or pear, TTB will consider such factors as the labeling and advertising of the product. Any written or pictorial reference to a fruit flavor other than apple or pear in the labeling or advertising of a wine that contains a flavoring will be treated as evidence that the wine contains a flavoring that imparts a fruit flavor other than apple or pear and thus the wine is not eligible for the hard cider tax rate. The use of spices, honey, hops, or pumpkins as a flavoring will not make a wine ineligible for the hard cider tax rate.


