# § 301.6227-1   Administrative adjustment request by partnership.

(a) *In general.* A partnership may file a request for an administrative adjustment with respect to any partnership-related item (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6)(ii)) for any partnership taxable year. When filing an administrative adjustment request (AAR), the partnership must determine whether the adjustments requested in the AAR result in an imputed underpayment in accordance with § 301.6227-2(a) for the reviewed year (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(8)). If the adjustments requested in the AAR result in an imputed underpayment, the partnership must take the adjustments into account under the rules described in § 301.6227-2(b) unless the partnership makes an election under § 301.6227-2(c), in which case each reviewed year partner (as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(9)) must take the adjustments into account in accordance with § 301.6227-3. If the adjustments requested in the AAR are adjustments described in § 301.6225-1(f)(1) that do not result in an imputed underpayment (as determined under § 301.6227-2(a)), such adjustments must be taken into account by the reviewed year partners in accordance with § 301.6227-3. A partner may not make a request for an administrative adjustment of a partnership-related item except in accordance with § 301.6222-1 or if the partner is doing so on behalf of the partnership in the partner's capacity as the partnership representative designated under section 6223. In addition, a partnership may not file an AAR solely for the purpose of changing the designation of a partnership representative or changing the appointment of a designated individual. See § 301.6223-1 (regarding designation of the partnership representative). When the partnership changes the designation of the partnership representative (or appointment of the designated individual) in conjunction with the filing of an AAR in accordance with § 301.6223-1(e), the change in designation (or appointment) is treated as occurring prior to the filing of the AAR. For rules regarding a notice of change to the amount of creditable foreign tax expenditures see paragraph (g) of this section.


(b) *Time for filing an AAR.* An AAR may only be filed by a partnership with respect to a partnership taxable year after a partnership return for that taxable year has been filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). A partnership may not file an AAR with respect to a partnership taxable year more than three years after the later of the date the partnership return for such partnership taxable year was filed or the last day for filing such partnership return (determined without regard to extensions). Except as provided in § 301.6231-1(f), an AAR (including a request filed by a partner in accordance with § 301.6222-1) may not be filed for a partnership taxable year after a notice of administrative proceeding with respect to such taxable year has been mailed by the IRS under section 6231.


(c) *Form and manner for filing an AAR*—(1) *In general.* An AAR by a partnership, including any required statements, forms, and schedules as described in this section, must be filed with the IRS in accordance with the forms, instructions, and other guidance prescribed by the IRS, and must be signed under penalties of perjury by the partnership representative (as described in §§ 301.6223-1 and 301.6223-2).


(2) *Contents of AAR filed with the IRS.* A partnership must include the information described in this paragraph (c)(2) when filing an AAR with the IRS. In the case of a failure by the partnership to provide the information described in this paragraph (c)(2), the IRS may, but is not required to, invalidate an AAR or readjust any items that were adjusted on the AAR. An AAR filed with the IRS must include—


(i) The adjustments requested;


(ii) If a reviewed year partner is required to take into account the adjustments requested under § 301.6227-3, statements described in paragraph (e) of this section, including any transmittal with respect to such statements required by forms, instructions, and other guidance prescribed by the IRS; and


(iii) Other information prescribed by the IRS in forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(d) *Copy of statement furnished to reviewed year partners in certain cases.* If a reviewed year partner is required to take into account adjustments requested in an AAR under § 301.6227-3, the partnership must furnish a copy of the statement described in paragraph (e) of this section to the reviewed year partner to whom the statement relates in accordance with the forms, instructions and other guidance prescribed by the IRS. If the partnership mails the statement, it must mail the statement to the current or last address of the reviewed year partner that is known to the partnership. The statement must be furnished to the reviewed year partner on the date the AAR is filed with the IRS.


(e) *Statements*—(1) *Contents.* Each statement described in this paragraph (e) must include the following correct information:


(i) The name and TIN of the reviewed year partner to whom the statement is being furnished;


(ii) The current or last address of the partner that is known to the partnership;


(iii) The reviewed year partner's share of items as originally reported on statements furnished to the partner under section 6031(b) and, if applicable, section 6227;


(iv) The reviewed year partner's share of the adjustments as described under paragraph (e)(2) of this section;


(v) The date the statement is furnished to the partner;


(vi) The partnership taxable year to which the adjustments relate; and


(vii) Any other information required by forms, instructions, and other guidance prescribed by the IRS.


(2) *Determination of each partner's share of adjustments*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, each reviewed year partner's share of the adjustments requested in the AAR is determined in the same manner as each adjusted partnership-related item was originally allocated to the reviewed year partner on the partnership return for the reviewed year. If the partnership pays an imputed underpayment under § 301.6227-2(b) with respect to the adjustments requested in the AAR, the reviewed year partner's share of the adjustments requested in the AAR only includes any adjustments that did not result in the imputed underpayment, as determined under § 301.6227-2(a).


(ii) *Adjusted partnership-related item not reported on the partnership's return for the reviewed year.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section, if the adjusted partnership-related item was not reported on the partnership return for the reviewed year, each reviewed year partner's share of the adjustments must be determined in accordance with how such items would have been allocated under rules that apply with respect to partnership allocations, including under the partnership agreement.


(iii) *Allocation adjustments.* If an adjustment involves allocation of a partnership-related item to a specific partner or in a specific manner, including a reallocation of an item, the reviewed year partner's share of the adjustment requested in the AAR is determined in accordance with the AAR.


(f) *Administrative proceeding for a taxable year for which an AAR is filed.* Within the period described in section 6235, the IRS may initiate an administrative proceeding with respect to the partnership for any partnership taxable year regardless of whether the partnership filed an AAR with respect to such taxable year and may adjust any partnership-related item, including any partnership-related item adjusted in an AAR filed by the partnership. The amount of an imputed underpayment determined by the partnership under § 301.6227-2(a)(1), including any modifications determined by the partnership under § 301.6227-2(a)(2), may be re-determined by the IRS.




(g) *Notice requirement and partnership adjustments required as a result of a foreign tax redetermination.* For special rules applicable when an adjustment to a partnership related item (as defined in section 6241(2)) is required as part of a redetermination of U.S. tax liability under section 905(c) and § 1.905-3(b) of this chapter as a result of a foreign tax redetermination (as defined in § 1.905-3(a) of this chapter), see § 1.905-4(b)(2)(ii) of this chapter.




(h) *Applicability date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, this section applies to partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending after August 12, 2018.


(2) *Election under § 301.9100-22 in effect.* This section applies to any partnership taxable year beginning after November 2, 2015, and before January 1, 2018, for which a valid election under § 301.9100-22 is in effect.



---

[N] [T.D. 9844, 84 FR 6558, Feb. 27, 2019, as amended by T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72074, Nov. 12, 2020]










