# § 447.205   Public notice of changes in Statewide methods and standards for setting payment rates.

(a) *When notice is required.* Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the agency must provide public notice of any significant proposed change in its methods and standards for setting payment rates for services.


(b) *When notice is not required.* Notice is not required if—


(1) The change is being made to conform to Medicare methods or levels of reimbursement;


(2) The change is required by court order; or


(3) The change is based on changes in wholesalers' or manufacturers' prices of drugs or materials, if the agency's reimbursement system is based on material cost plus a professional fee.


(c) *Content of notice.* The notice must—


(1) Describe the proposed change in methods and standards;


(2) Give an estimate of any expected increase or decrease in annual aggregate expenditures;


(3) Explain why the agency is changing its methods and standards;


(4) Identify a local agency in each county (such as the social services agency or health department) where copies of the proposed changes are available for public review;


(5) Give an address where written comments may be sent and reviewed by the public; and


(6) If there are public hearings, give the location, date and time for hearings or tell how this information may be obtained.


(d) *Publication of notice.* The notice must—


(1) Be published before the proposed effective date of the change; and


(2) Appear as a public announcement in one of the following publications:


(i) A State register similar to the _Federal Register._

(ii) The newspaper of widest circulation in each city with a population of 50,000 or more.


(iii) The newspaper of widest circulation in the State, if there is no city with a population of 50,000 or more.


(iv) A Web site developed and maintained by the single State agency or other responsible State agency that is accessible to the general public, provided that the Web site:


(A) Is clearly titled and can be easily reached from a hyperlink included on Web sites that provide general information to beneficiaries and providers, and included on the State-specific page on the Federal Medicaid Web site.


(B) Is updated for bulletins on a regular and known basis (for example, the first day of each month), and the public notice is issued as part of the regular update;


(C) Includes the actual date it was released to the public on the Web site; or


(D) Complies with national standards to ensure access to individuals with disabilities; and


(E) Includes protections to ensure that the content of the issued notice is not modified after the initial publication and is maintained on the Web site for no less than a 3-year period.



---

[N] [46 FR 58680, Dec. 3, 1981; 47 FR 8567, Mar. 1, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 56057, Dec. 19, 1983; 80 FR 67612, Nov. 2, 2015]




