# § 195.416   Pipeline assessments.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to onshore line pipe that can accommodate inspection by means of in-line inspection tools and is not subject to the integrity management requirements in § 195.452.


(b) *General.* An operator must perform an initial assessment of each of its pipeline segments by October 1, 2029, and perform periodic assessments of its pipeline segments at least once every 10 calendar years from the year of the prior assessment or as otherwise necessary to ensure public safety or the protection of the environment.


(c) *Method.* Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, an operator must perform the integrity assessment for the range of relevant threats to the pipeline segment by the use of an appropriate in-line inspection tool(s). When performing an assessment using an in-line inspection tool, an operator must comply with § 195.591. An operator must explicitly consider uncertainties in reported results (including tool tolerance, anomaly findings, and unity chart plots or other equivalent methods for determining uncertainties) in identifying anomalies. If this is impracticable based on operational limits, including operating pressure, low flow, and pipeline length or availability of in-line inspection tool technology for the pipe diameter, then the operator must perform the assessment using the appropriate method(s) in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for the range of relevant threats being assessed. The methods an operator selects to assess low-frequency electric resistance welded pipe, pipe with a seam factor less than 1.0 as defined in § 195.106(e) or lap-welded pipe susceptible to longitudinal seam failure must be capable of assessing seam integrity, cracking, and of detecting corrosion and deformation anomalies. The following alternative assessment methods may be used as specified in this paragraph:


(1) A pressure test conducted in accordance with subpart E of this part;


(2) External corrosion direct assessment in accordance with § 195.588; or


(3) Other technology in accordance with paragraph (d).


(d) *Other technology.* Operators may elect to use other technologies if the operator can demonstrate the technology can provide an equivalent understanding of the condition of the line pipe for threat being assessed. An operator choosing this option must notify the Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) 90 days before conducting the assessment by:


(1) Sending the notification, along with the information required to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph, to the Information Resources Manager, Office of Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590; or


(2) Sending the notification, along with the information required to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph, to the Information Resources Manager by facsimile to (202) 366-7128.


(3) Prior to conducting the “other technology” assessments, the operator must receive a notice of “no objection” from the PHMSA Information Services Manager or Designee.


(e) *Data analysis.* A person qualified by knowledge, training, and experience must analyze the data obtained from an assessment performed under paragraph (b) of this section to determine if a condition could adversely affect the safe operation of the pipeline. Operators must consider uncertainties in any reported results (including tool tolerance) as part of that analysis.


(f) *Discovery of condition.* For purposes of § 195.401(b)(1), discovery of a condition occurs when an operator has adequate information to determine that a condition presenting a potential threat to the integrity of the pipeline exists. An operator must promptly, but no later than 180 days after an assessment, obtain sufficient information about a condition to make that determination required under paragraph (e) of this section, unless the operator can demonstrate the 180-day interval is impracticable. If the operator believes that 180 days are impracticable to make a determination about a condition found during an assessment, the pipeline operator must notify PHMSA and provide an expected date when adequate information will become available. This notification must be made in accordance with § 195.452 (m).


(g) *Remediation.* An operator must comply with the requirements in § 195.401 if a condition that could adversely affect the safe operation of a pipeline is discovered in complying with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.


(h) *Consideration of information.* An operator must consider all relevant information about a pipeline in complying with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-102, 84 FR 52295, Oct. 1, 2019]






