# § 60.52c   Emission limits.

(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:


(1) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), any gases that contain stack emissions in excess of the limits presented in Table 1A to this subpart.


(2) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), any gases that contain stack emissions in excess of the limits presented in Table 1B to this subpart.


(b) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:


(1) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), any gases that exhibit greater than 10 percent opacity (6-minute block average).


(2) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), any gases that exhibit greater than 6 percent opacity (6-minute block average).


(c) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2) and utilizing a large HMIWI, and in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (*i.e.,* 9 minutes per 3-hour period), as determined by EPA Reference Method 22 of appendix A-1 of this part, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(d) The emission limit specified in paragraph (c) of this section does not cover visible emissions discharged inside buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems; however, the emission limit does cover visible emissions discharged to the atmosphere from buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems.


(e) The provisions specified in paragraph (c) of this section do not apply during maintenance and repair of ash conveying systems. Maintenance and/or repair shall not exceed 10 operating days per calendar quarter unless the owner or operator obtains written approval from the State agency establishing a date whereby all necessary maintenance and repairs of ash conveying systems shall be completed.



---

[N] [62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51409, Oct. 6, 2009]




