# § 29.45   Meaning of terms.

When used in this subpart and in the forms prescribed under this subpart, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words in the masculine shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.29, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 29, Stills and Miscellaneous Regulations.


*Condenser.* Any apparatus capable of being used when connected with a still, for condensing or liquefying alcoholic or spirituous vapors, but shall not include condensers to be used with laboratory stills or stills used for distilling water or other nonalcoholic materials where the cubic distilling capacity is one gallon or less.




*Distilling spirits or spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced).


*Distilling.* The conduct by any person of operations that constitute, as defined by 26 U.S.C. 5002, operations as a distiller. Such operations include: (a) The original manufacture of distilled spirits from mash, wort, or wash, or any materials suitable for the production of spirits; (b) the redistillation of spirits in the course of original manufacture; (c) the redistillation of spirits, or products containing spirits; (d) the distillation, redistillation, or recovery of spirits, denatured spirits, or articles containing spirits or denatured spirits; and (e) the redistillation or recovery of tax-free spirits.


*Distilling apparatus.* A still or condenser, as defined in this section, and any other apparatus to be used for the purpose of distilling.


*Executed under the penalties of perjury.* Signed with the prescribed declaration under the penalties of perjury as provided on or with respect to any document prescribed under this subpart or, where no form of declaration is prescribed, with the declaration: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that this ____________ (insert type of document), including the documents submitted in support thereof, has been examined by me and, to best of my knowledge and belief, is true, correct and complete.”


*Manufacturer of stills.* Any person who manufactures any still or condenser, as defined in this section, or any other apparatus to be used for the purpose of distilling. The term includes a person furnishing separate parts of a complete still or condenser, of any kind, to a person who assembles same into a still or condenser for distilling and a person who procures materials or apparatus and converts same into a still or condenser for distilling.


*Person.* An individual, a trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation.


*Still.* Any apparatus capable of being used for separating alcoholic or spirituous vapors, or spiritous solutions, or spirits, from spirituous solutions or mixtures, but shall not include stills used for laboratory purposes or stills used for distilling water or other nonalcoholic materials where the cubic distilling capacity is one gallon or less.


*This chapter.* Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter I (27 CFR Chapter I).


*United States.* The several states and the District of Columbia.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-207, 50 FR 23682, June 5, 1985; 50 FR 28572, July 15, 1985, as amended by T.D. ATF-439, 66 FR 8770, Feb. 2, 2001; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16947, Apr. 4, 2006;T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87946, Nov. 6, 2024]




