# § 180.104   Allowable claims.

(a) A claim may be allowed only if:


(1) The damage or loss was not caused wholly or partly by the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant, claimant's agent, a member of claimant's family, or claimant's private employee (the standard to be applied is that of reasonable care under the circumstances);


(2) The possession of the property damaged or lost and the quantity possessed is determined to have been reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances; and


(3) The claim is substantiated by proper and convincing evidence.


(b) Claims which are otherwise allowable under this part shall not be disallowed solely because the property was not in the possession of the claimant at the time of the damage or loss or solely because the claimant was not legal owner of the property for which the claim is made. For example, borrowed property may be the subject of a claim.


(c) Subject to the conditions in § 180.104(a) and the other provisions of this part, any claim for damage to or loss of personal property incident to service with OPM may be considered and allowed. The following are examples of the principal types of claims which may be allowed. These examples are not exclusive and other types of claims may be allowed unless excluded by § 180.106:


(1) *Property damaged or lost in quarters.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property located at:


(i) Quarters within the 50 States and the District of Columbia that were assigned to the claimant or otherwise provided in kind by the United States;


(ii) Quarters outside the 50 States and the District of Columbia that were occupied by the claimant, whether or not they were assigned or otherwise provided in kind by the United States, except when the claimant is a local inhabitant; or


(iii) Any warehouse, office, working area, or other place (except quarters) authorized or apparently authorized for the reception or storage of property.


(2) *Transportation or travel losses.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property incident to transportation or storage pursuant to orders, or in connection with travel under orders, including property in custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government, or the claimant.


(3) *Motor vehicles.* Claims may be allowed for automobiles and other motor vehicles damaged or lost in oversea shipments provided by the Government. “Shipments provided by the Government” means via Government vessels, charter of commercial vessels, or by Government bills of lading on commercial vessels, and includes storage, unloading, and off-loading incident thereto. Other claims for damage to or loss of automobiles and other motor vehicles may be allowed only when use of the vehicle on a non-reimbursable basis was required by the claimant's supervisor.


(4) *Mobile homes.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of mobile homes and their contents under the provisions of § 180.104(c)(2). Claims for structural damage to mobile homes, other than that caused by collision, and damage to contents of mobile homes resulting from such structural damage must contain conclusive evidence that the damage was not caused by structural deficiency of the mobile home and that it was not overloaded. Claims for damage to or loss of tires mounted on mobile homes may be allowed only in cases of collision, theft, or vandalism.


(5) *Money.* Claims for money in an amount that is determined to be reasonable for the claimant to possess at the time of the loss are payable:


(i) Where personal funds were accepted by responsible Government personnel with apparent authority to receive them for safekeeping deposit, transmittal, or other authorized disposition, but were neither applied as directed by the owner nor returned; 


(ii) When lost incident to a marine or aircraft disaster; 


(iii) When lost by fire, flood, hurricane, or other natural disaster; 


(iv) When stolen from the quarters of the claimant where it is conclusively shown that the money was in a locked container and that the quarters themselves were locked; 


(v) When taken by force from the claimant's person. 


(6) *Clothing.* Claims may be allowed for clothing and accessories worn on the person which are damaged or lost: 


(i) During the performance of official duties in an unusual or extraordinary-risk situation; 


(ii) In cases involving emergency action required by natural disaster such as fire, flood, hurricane, or by enemy or other belligerent action; 


(iii) In cases involving faulty equipment or defective furniture maintained by the Government and used by the claimant as required by the job situation; or 


(iv) When using a motor vehicle. 


(7) *Property used for benefit of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property (except motor vehicles) used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of, superior authority or by reason of necessity. 


(8) *Enemy action or public service.* Claims may be allowed for damage to or loss of property as a direct consequence of: 


(i) Enemy action or threat thereof, or combat, guerilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nationals; 


(ii) Action by the claimant to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster; or 


(iii) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or Government property. 


(9) *Marine or aircraft disaster.* Claims may be allowed for personal property damaged or lost as a result of marine or aircraft disaster or accident. 


(10) *Government property.* Claims may be allowed for property owned by the United States only when the claimant is financially responsible to an agency of the Government other than OPM. 


(11) *Borrowed property.* Claims may be allowed for borrowed property that has been damaged or lost. 




