# ยง 4284.908   Compliance with other laws and regulations.

The Agency, Applicants, and recipients must comply with all applicable laws and regulations. An effort has been made to identify the most-commonly cited laws and regulations and reference them as follows:


(a) *Federal laws.* Federal laws are codified in the United States Code (U.S.C.). A selection of applicable laws is identified as follows:


(1) Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*);


(2) The Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI (42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.*); and


(3) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794).


(b) *Federal regulations.* Federal regulations are codified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:


(1) *2 CFR parts 1 through 200.* These parts address items such as universal identifiers, reporting subaward and executive compensation, debarment and suspension, drug-free workplaces, administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements. We particularly encourage Applicants and Recipients to become familiar with 2 CFR part 200 in its entirety.


(2) *27 CFR part 1.* This part is applicable to Applicants that will produce and market value-added products in the industries of wine, beer, distilled spirits or other alcoholic merchandise.


(c) *Departmental regulations.* Departmental regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through USDA. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:


(1) *2 CFR parts 400 through 499.* These parts include USDA's adoption of Federal administrative requirements and cost principles. They also include regulations on debarment and suspension, lobbying, drug-free workplaces, and research awards.


(2) *7 CFR part 11.* This part includes USDA's procedures for administrative appeals, as handled by its National Appeals Division.


(3) *7 CFR part 15d.* This part includes USDA's procedures for compliance with nondiscrimination laws and regulations. The Agency will not discriminate against Applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, disability, or age (provided that the Applicant has the capacity to contract); because all or part of the Applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the Applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*

(d) *Agency regulations.* Agency regulations are those regulations that are specific to awards made through the Agency and they may also be specific to a program. They are codified in the CFR. A selection of applicable regulations is identified as follows:


(1) *7 CFR part 1900.* This part covers delegations of authority, adverse decisions and administrative appeals, applicability of Federal law, and processing and servicing grant awards.


(2) *7 CFR part 1901, subpart E.* This subpart covers civil rights compliance requirements.


(3) *7 CFR part 1951.* This part covers servicing grant awards, including unauthorized assistance.


(4) *7 CFR part 1970.* This part covers environmental policies and procedures.


(5) *7 CFR part 990.* This part applies to Applicants who are proposing to produce, procure, supply or market any component of the hemp plant or hemp related by-products. Applicable Food and Drug Administration and Drug Enforcement Administration regulatory requirements must also be met.


(e) *Access to laws and regulations.* (1) Laws may be accessed through the U.S.C. At the time this subpart was published, the U.S.C. may be accessed electronically at this website: *https://uscode.house.gov/.*

(2) Regulations may be accessed through the CFR. At the time this subpart was published, the CFR may be accessed electronically at this website: *https://www.ecfr.gov/.*

