# § 4290.1940   Integration of this part with other regulations applicable to USDA's programs.

(a) *Intergovernmental review.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, “Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities.” The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.


(b) *National flood insurance.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart B of 7 CFR part 1806. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.


(c) *Clean Air Act and Water Pollution Control Act requirements.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with the requirements of the Clean Air Act, section 306; the Clean Water Act, section 508; Executive Order 11738; and 40 CFR part 32. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.


(d) *Historic preservation requirements.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart F of 7 CFR part 1901. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.


(e) *Lead-based paint requirements.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with subpart A of 7 CFR part 1924. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.


(f) *Conflict of interest.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 2 CFR 400.2, subpart D of 7 CFR part 1900, and RD Instruction 2045-BB. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.


(g) *Civil rights impact analysis.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with RD Instruction 2006-P, “Civil Rights Impact Analysis.” The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45 of this part.


(h) *Environmental requirements.* To the extent applicable to this part, the Agency will comply with 7 CFR part 1970. The Agency has not delegated this responsibility to SBA pursuant to § 4290.45.


(i) *Appeals to the National Appeals Division for review of adverse decisions.* Applicants and RBICs have the right to request review by the National Appeals Division within the USDA of adverse decisions, as defined in 7 CFR 11.1, pursuant to 7 CFR part 11.



---

[N] [69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 76019, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11053, Mar. 2, 2016]




