# ยง 3.260   Computation of income.

For entitlement to pension or dependency and indemnity compensation, income will be counted for the calendar year in which it is received. 


(a) *Installments.* Income will be determined by the total amount received or anticipated during the calendar year. 


(b) *Deferred determinations.* Where there is doubt as to the amount of the anticipated income, pension or dependency and indemnity compensation will be allowed at the lowest appropriate rate or will be withheld, as may be in order, until the end of the calendar year when the total income received during the year may be determined. 


(c) *Proportionate income limitations; excess income.* A proportionate income limitation will be established under the conditions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section except where application of a proportionate income limitation would result in payment of a lower rate than would be payable on the basis of income for the full calendar year. 


(d) *Proportionate income limitations; computation.* Income limitations will be computed proportionately for the purpose of determining initial entitlement, or for resuming payments on an award which was discontinued for a reason other than excess income or a change in marital or dependency status. A proportionate income limitation will be established for the period from the date of entitlement to the end of that calendar year. The total amount of income received by the claimant during that period will govern the payment of benefits. Income received prior to the date of entitlement will be disregarded. 


(e) *Proportionate income limitations; spouse.* In determining whether proportionate computation is applicable to a claim under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432), the total income for the calendar year of entitlement of both veteran and that of the spouse available for use of the veteran will be considered. If a proportionate income limitation is then applicable, it will be applied to both the veteran's and the spouse's income. The spouse's income will not be included, however, where his or her total income for the calendar year does not exceed $1,200. 


(f) *Rate changes.* In years after that for which entitlement to pension or dependency and indemnity compensation has been established or reestablished as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, total income for the calendar year will govern the payment of benefits. Where there is a change in the conditions of entitlement because of a change in marital or dependency status, entitlement for each period will be determined separately. For the period when the claimant was married or had a dependent, the rate payable will be determined under the annual income limitation or increment applicable to a claimant who is married or has a dependent. For the period when the claimant was unmarried or without a dependent, the rate payable will be determined under the annual income limitation or increment applicable to a claimant who is not married or has no dependent. Since these determinations will be based on total income for the calendar year, it is not material whether such income was received before or after the change of status. 


(g) *Fractions of dollars.* In computing a claimant's annual income a fraction of a dollar will be disregarded for the purpose of determining entitlement to monthly payments of pension and dependency and indemnity compensation.



---

[N] [28 FR 30, Jan. 1, 1963, as amended at 29 FR 2944, Mar. 4, 1964; 37 FR 6677, Apr. 1, 1972; 40 FR 16066, Apr. 9, 1975] 




