# § 184.1295   Ethyl formate.

(a) Ethyl formate (C_3_H_6_O_2_, CAS Reg. No. 109-94-4) is also referred to as ethyl methanoate. It is an ester of formic acid and is prepared by esterification of formic acid with ethyl alcohol or by distillation of ethyl acetate and formic acid in the presence of concentrated sulfuric acid. Ethyl formate occurs naturally in some plant oils, fruits, and juices but does not occur naturally in the animal kingdom.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 3d Ed. (1981), p. 376, which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.05 percent in baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.04 percent in chewing gum as defined in § 170.3(n)(6), hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25), and soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.02 percent in frozen dairy desserts as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter; 0.03 percent in gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; and 0.01 percent in all other food categories.


(e) Prior sanctions for ethyl formate different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [45 FR 22915, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 49 FR 5612, Feb. 14, 1984]




