# ยง 63.112   Conflict of interest.

(a) *In general.* Members of the Board shall not vote on any particular matter pending before the Board in which, to the knowledge of the member, an interest is held by the member, any spouse of the member, any child of the member, any partner of the member, any organization in which the member is serving as an officer, director, trustee, partner, or employee; or any person with whom the member is negotiating or has any arrangement concerning prospective employment or with whom the member has a financial interest, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Validity of action.* An action by a member of the Board that violates ยง 63.112 (a) shall not impair or otherwise affect the validity of any otherwise lawful action by the Board.


(c) *Disclosure.* If a member of the Board makes full disclosure of an interest and, prior to any participation by the member, the Board determines, by majority vote, that the interest is too remote or too inconsequential to affect the integrity of any participation by the member, the member may participate in the matter relating to the interest, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. A member that discloses an interest under section ยง 63.112(a) shall not vote on a determination of whether the member may participate in the matter relating to the interest.


(d) *Remands.* The Secretary may vacate and remand to the Board for reconsideration any decision made if the Secretary determines that there has been a violation of this section or any conflict of interest provision of the bylaws of the Board with respect to the decision.


(1) In the case of any violation and remand of a funding decision to the Board, the Secretary shall inform the Board of the reasons for the remand.


(2) If a decision with respect to the matter is remanded to the Board by reason of a conflict of interest faced by a Board member, the member may not participate in any subsequent decision with respect to the matter.




