# ยง 200.220   Previous Participation review.

(a) *Scope of review.* (1) Upon the occurrence of a Triggering Event, as provided in ยง 200.218, the Commissioner shall review the Previous Participation of the relevant Controlling Participants in considering whether to approve the participation of the Controlling Participants in connection with the Triggering Event in accordance with the definition of Risk in ยง 200.212.


(2) The Commissioner will not review Previous Participation for interests acquired by inheritance or by court decree.


(3) In connection with the submittal of an application for any Triggering Event, applicants shall identify the Controlling Participants and, to the extent requested by HUD, make available to HUD the Controlling Participant's Previous Participation in Covered Projects.


(b) *Results of review.* (1) Based upon the review under paragraph (a) of this section, the Commissioner will approve, disapprove, limit, or otherwise condition the continued participation of the Controlling Participant in the Triggering Event, in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(2) The Commissioner shall provide notice of the determination to the Controlling Participant including the reasons for disapproval or limitation. The Commissioner may provide notice of the determination to other parties as well, such the FHA-approved lender in the transaction.


(c) *Basis for disapproval.* (1) The Commissioner must disapprove a Controlling Participant if the Commissioner determines that the Controlling Participant is suspended, debarred or subject to other restriction pursuant to 2 CFR part 180 or 2 CFR part 2424;


(2) The Commissioner may disapprove a Controlling Participant if the Commissioner determines:


(i) The Controlling Participant is materially restricted, including voluntarily, from doing business with HUD (other than the restrictions listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) or any other governmental department or agency if the Commissioner determines that such restriction demonstrates a significant risk to proceeding with the Triggering Event; or


(ii) The Controlling Participant's record of Previous Participation reveals significant risk to proceeding with the Triggering Event.


(d) *Alternatives to disapproval.* In lieu of disapproval, the Commissioner may:


(1) Condition or limit the Controlling Participant's participation;


(2) Temporarily withhold issuing a determination in order to gather more necessary information; or


(3) Require the Controlling Participant to remedy or mitigate outstanding violations of HUD requirements to the Commissioner's satisfaction in order to participate in the Triggering Event.






