# ยง 15.2   Definitions.

*Administrative offset* means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States Government.


*Administrative wage garnishment* is the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order. 


*Claim* and *debt* are used synonymously to refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms *claim* and *debt* include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 


*Cross-servicing* means that the Treasury or another debt collection center is taking appropriate debt collection action on behalf of one or more Federal agencies or a unit or subagency thereof. 


*Delinquent.* A debt is considered delinquent if it has not been paid by the date specified in the initial written demand for payment or applicable contractual agreement with the NRC unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made by that date. If the debtor fails to satisfy obligations under a payment agreement with the NRC after other payment arrangements have been made, the debt becomes a delinquent debt.


*Federal agencies* include agencies of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Government, including Government corporations. 


*License* means any license, permit, or other approval issued by the Commission.


*Payment in full* means payment of the total debt due the United States, including any interest, penalty, and administrative costs of collection assessed against the debtor.


*Recoupment* is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment. 


*Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his/her consent.


*Tax refund offset* means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment. 


*Treasury* as used in 10 CFR part 15 means the Department of the Treasury. 


*Withholding order* means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body.



---

[N] [55 FR 32377, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 67 FR 30318, May 6, 2002]




