# ยง 21.6059   Limitations on the number of evaluations.

(a) *Number of evaluations.* No more than 3,500 evaluations of the reasonable feasibility of achieving a vocational goal may be given during any 12-month period, beginning on February 1, 1985, and each subsequent February 1 during the program period.


(b) *Cases counted as evaluation.* An evaluation is deemed to be countable against the 3,500 limit permitted during each 12-month period when the following conditions are met:


(1) The veteran is provided one or more personal interviews by a Counseling Psychologist (CP) or Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (VRC); and


(2) A determination of the reasonable feasibility of achieving a vocational goal is made by the CP or VRC.


(c) *Cases not counted as evaluations.* Computation of the number of evaluations which may be provided in a 12-month period shall exclude cases in which:


(1) The veteran under age 45 awarded pension during the program period is unable to participate for reasons beyond his or her control;


(2) Review of available information does not indicate a good potential for employment of other qualified veterans.


(3) The veteran either fails to keep a scheduled appointment to complete the evaluation or withdraws the claim for an evaluation, or


(4) The veteran who has completed an evaluation requires or requests a reevaluation.


(d) *Priority.* If a veteran below age 45 for whom an evaluation is required cannot be provided an evaluation during a particular 12-month period because of the limitation on the number of evaluations, the veteran will be given first priority for evaluation during the following 12-month period, or first available subsequent 12-month period, if otherwise eligible.



---

[N] [53 FR 4397, Feb. 16, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 17272, Apr. 24, 1990; 56 FR 21448, May 9, 1991; 81 FR 26132, May 2, 2016]




