# ยง 3555.307   Assistance in natural disasters.

(a) *Policy.* Servicers must utilize general procedures available under this subpart for servicing borrowers affected by natural disasters, as supplemented by Rural Development, to minimize delinquencies and avoid foreclosure.


(b) *Evaluating the damage.* Servicers are expected to inspect a security property whenever they have reason to believe the property has been damaged.


(c) *Special relief measures.* The servicer must evaluate on an individual case-by-case basis a mortgage that is (or becomes) seriously delinquent as the result of the borrower's incurring extraordinary damages or expenses related to the natural disaster. The servicer should document its individual mortgage file regarding all servicing actions taken during this time period. The lender must consider all special relief alternatives for disaster assistance available to the borrower prior to suspending collection and foreclosure activities. The suspension of servicing actions will expire 90 days from the declaration date of the natural disaster, unless otherwise extended by the Agency.


(d) *Insurance claim settlements.* Prior to release of hazard insurance proceeds because of damage caused by a natural disaster, servicers must complete a cost and benefit analysis on a case-by-case basis to determine if the property can be repaired or rebuilt. The servicer's actions must be based on the status of the mortgage, the amount of insurance proceeds, and the length of time required repairing or reconstructing the property, and the market conditions in the area. If the property will not be repaired or rebuilt, the insurance proceeds must be applied to the unpaid principal loan balance.



---

[N] [78 FR 73941, Dec. 9, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 6430, Feb. 8, 2016]




