# ยง 3453.2-4   Bonds.

(a) If a bond is required, it shall be furnished before a lease, preference right lease application or exploration license may be approved for transfer. If the original lease, preference right lease application or exploration license required the maintenance of a bond, the transferee shall submit either a written consent from the surety to the substitution of the transferee as principal or a new bond with the transferee as principal. Transfers of any part of the leased or licensed lands shall be described by legal subdivisions. Before any transfer of part of a lease or license is approved, the transferee shall submit: (1) A written statement from the surety that it agrees to the transfer and that it agrees to remain bound as to the interest retained by the lessee or licensee; and (2) a new bond with the tranferee as principal covering the portion transferred.


(b) The transferor and the surety shall continue to be responsible for the performance of any obligation under the lease, preference right lease application or exploration license until the effective date of the approval of the transfer. If the transfer is not approved, the obligation to the United States shall continue as though no such transfer had been filed for approval. After the effective date of approval, the transferee, including any sublessee, applicant or licensee, and the transferee's surety shall be responsible for all lease, application or license obligations, notwithstanding any terms of the transfer to the contrary.



---

[N] [47 FR 33147, July 30, 1982, as amended at 47 FR 38131, Aug. 30, 1982]




