# ยง 235.2   Civil preparedness.

(a) *Mission.* The prime objective of postal emergency preparedness planning is to maintain or restore essential postal service in a national emergency, natural disaster, or disruptive domestic crisis. 


(b) *Emergency Coordinator.* The Chief Inspector is designated Emergency Coordinator for the Postal Service. As Emergency Coordinator, he provides general direction and coordination of the following programs: 


(1) National Civil Preparedness and Defense Mobilization; 


(2) Natural Disaster Preparedness; 


(3) Emergency Response to Disruptive Domestic Crisis. 


(c) *Regional Emergency Coordinator.* The Chief Inspector may delegate authority to Regional Chief Postal Inspectors, or others, for the function of Regional Emergency Coordinator and the general direction and coordination of all such programs within the Postal Regions, as are conducted by him at the National level. 


(d) *Postmaster General emergency line of succession.* (1) Deputy Postmaster General; (2) Senior Assistant Postmaster General, Administration; (3) Senior Assistant Postmaster General, Operations.


(e) *Headquarters and field lines of succession.* Each Headquarters organizational unit shall establish its own internal line of succession to provide for continuity under emergency conditions. Each Regional Postmaster General, Regional Chief Inspector, Postal Data Center Director, Inspector in Charge, and postmaster at first-class post offices shall prepare a succession list of officials who will act in his stead in the event he is incapacitated or absent in an emergency. Orders of succession shall be shown by position titles, except those of the Inspection Service may be shown by names. 


(f) *Field responsibilities.* Postmasters and heads of other installations shall: 


(1) Carry out civil preparedness assignments, programs, etc., as directed by regional officials. 


(2) Comply with, and cooperate in community civil preparedness plans (including exercise) for evacuation, take cover and other survival measures prescribed for local populations. 


(3) Designate representatives for continuing liaison with local civil preparedness organizations where such activity will not interfere with normal duties. 


(4) Endeavor to serve (at their own option) as members on the staff of the local civil preparedness director, provided such service will not interfere with their primary postal responsibility in an emergency. 


(5) Authorize and encourage their employees to participate voluntarily in nonpostal pre-emergency training programs and exercises in cooperation with States and localities. 



---

[N] [38 FR 26193, Sept. 9, 1973] 




