# § 891.120   Project design and cost standards.

In addition to the special project standards described in §§ 891.210 and 891.310, as applicable, the following standards apply: 


(a) *Property standards.* Projects under this part must comply with HUD Minimum Property Standards as set forth in 24 CFR part 200, subpart S.


(b) *Accessibility requirements.* Projects under this part must comply with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (See 24 CFR 40.7 for availability), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD's implementing regulations (24 CFR part 8), and for new construction multifamily housing projects, the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100. For the Section 811 Program of Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities, see additional accessibility requirements in § 891.310(b). 


(c) *Restrictions on amenities.* Projects must be modest in design. Amenities not eligible for HUD funding include atriums, bowling alleys, swimming pools, saunas, and jacuzzis. Sponsors may include certain excess amenities, but they must pay for them from sources other than the Section 202 or 811 capital advance. They must also pay for the continuing operating costs associated with any excess amenities from sources other than the Section 202 or 811 project rental assistance contract.


(d) *Smoke detectors.* Smoke detectors and alarm devices must be installed in accordance with standards and criteria acceptable to HUD for the protection of occupants in any dwelling or facility bedroom or other primary sleeping area.


(e) Projects under this part may have on their sites commercial facilities for the benefit of residents of the project and of the community in which the project is located, so long as the commercial facilities are not subsidized with funding under the supportive housing programs for the elderly or persons with disabilities. Such commercial facilities are considered public accommodations under Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act and must be accessible under the requirements of that Act.


(f) *Broadband infrastructure.* Any new construction or substantial rehabilitation, as substantial rehabilitation is defined by 24 CFR 5.100, of a building with more than 4 rental units and funded by a grant awarded after January 19, 2017 must include installation of broadband infrastructure, as this term is also defined in 24 CFR 5.100, except where the owner determines and documents the determination that:


(1) The location of the new construction or substantial rehabilitation makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible;


(2) The cost of installing broadband infrastructure would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of its program or activity or in an undue financial burden; or


(3) The structure of the housing to be substantially rehabilitated makes installation of broadband infrastructure infeasible.



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 67320, Dec. 1, 2003; 73 FR 29985, May 23, 2008; 78 FR 37112, June 20, 2013; 81 FR 92638, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 3623, Jan. 12, 2017]








