# ยง 102-40.170   How do we handle electronic products?

(a) Additional guidance regarding the disposal and reporting of Federal electronic products is found under FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36).


(b) Excess electronic products, certified and noncertified, meeting radiation safety performance standards or electronic products which are not required to meet such performance standards must be reported to GSA for transfer to Federal agencies in accordance with part 102-36 of this subchapter and may be donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-37 and 102-38 of this subchapter, respectively.


(c) Excess electronic products NOT meeting radiation safety performance standards must be reported to GSA for transfer to Federal agencies in accordance with FMR part 102-36 (41 CFR part 102-36) and may be donated or sold in accordance with parts 102-37 and 102-38 of this subchapter, respectively. The report to GSA, and any subsequent transfer, donation, or sales documents, must include a statement that the items are not in compliance with applicable radiation safety performance standards and specify the standard which is not being met. Additionally, the recipient must acknowledge that they are aware of the potential danger in handling or using such items.


(d) Donation documentation for items not meeting radiation safety performance standards must contain the following certification, or an equivalent certification, signed by the donee before release:


(e) Sales documents listing electronic products not meeting safety performance standards must also clearly warn purchasers that the items may not be in compliance with FDA radiation safety performance standards prescribed pursuant to 21 CFR parts 1010 through 1050 and that the purchaser assumes all risks associated with the use or resale of the items. The following type of warning will be placed on the sales documentation:


(f) You must dispose of all electronic products in accordance with all Federal and state laws, including the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901, *et seq.*) and Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management. You should also be aware of the prohibitions and liabilities contained in 42 U.S.C. 9607.


(g) When donating or selling electronic products, the sales terms and sales documentation, or donation document, must include the following certification, or an equivalent certification, which must be signed by the donee or successful bidder:


(h) Additionally, noncertified and certified electronic products must be abandoned under the provisions of ยง 102-40.125.



---

[N] [80 FR 7353, Feb. 10, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 67867, Aug. 22, 2024]






