# ยง 58.736   Pasteurized process cheese.

Shall conform to the provisions of the Definitions and Standards of Identity for Pasteurized Process Cheese and Related Products, Food and Drug Administration. The average age of the cheese in the blend shall be such that the desired flavor, body and texture will be achieved in the finished product. The quality of pasteurized process cheese shall be determined on the basis of flavor, body and texture, color, and finish and appearance. 


(a) *Flavor.* Has a pleasing and desirable mild cheese taste and odor characteristic of the variety or varieties of cheese ingredients used. If additional optional ingredients are used they shall be incorporated in accordance with good commercial practices and the flavor imparted shall be pleasing and desirable. May have a slight cooked or very slight acid or emulsifier flavor; is free from any undesirable tastes and odors. 


(b) *Body and texture.* Shall have a medium-firm, smooth and velvety body free from uncooked cheese particles. Is resilient and not tough, brittle, short, weak, or sticky. It shall be free from pin holes or openings except those caused by trapped steam. The cheese shall slice freely, and shall not stick to the knife or break when cut into approximately 
1/8 inch slices. If in sliced form, the slices shall separate readily. 


(c) *Color.* May be colored or uncolored but shall be uniform throughout. If colored it shall be bright and not be dull or faded. To promote uniformity and a common reference to describe color use the color designations as depicted by the National Cheese Institute standard color guide for cheese. 


(d) *Finish and appearance.* The wrapper may be slightly wrinkled but shall envelop the cheese, adhere closely to the surface, and be completely sealed and not broken or soiled. 




