# § 18.25   Direct exportation.

(a) *Merchandise*—(1) *General.* Except for exportations by mail as provided for in subpart F of part 145 of this chapter (see also § 158.45 of this chapter), an in-bond application must be transmitted as provided under § 18.1, for the following merchandise when it is to be directly exported without transportation to another port:


(i) Merchandise in CBP custody for which no entry has been made or completed;


(ii) Merchandise covered by an unliquidated consumption entry; or


(iii) Merchandise that has been entered in good faith but is found to be prohibited under any law of the United States.


(2) *Carnets.* If a TIR carnet covers the merchandise that is to be exported directly without transportation, the carnet will be discharged or canceled, as appropriate (see part 114 of this chapter), and an in-bond application must be transmitted, as provided by this part. If an A.T.A. carnet covers the merchandise that is to be exported directly without transportation, the carnet must be discharged by the certification of the appropriate transportation and reexportation vouchers by CBP officers as necessary.


(b) *Restriction on immediate exportation by truck.* Trucks arriving at a U.S. port of entry, carrying shipments for which an immediate exportation entry is presented as the sole means of entry, may be denied authorization to proceed. The port director may require the truck to return to the country from which it came or may allow the filing of a new entry.


(c) *Time to export.* Any portion of an in-bond shipment entered for immediate exportation pursuant to an in-bond entry must be exported within 15 calendar days from the date of arrival at the port of exportation, unless an extension has been granted by CBP pursuant to § 18.24(a). On the 16th day, the merchandise will become subject to general order requirements under § 4.37, § 122.50, or § 123.10 of this chapter, as applicable.


(d) *Electronic Export Information.* Filing of Electronic Export Information (EEI) is not required for merchandise entered under an Immediate Exportation entry provided that the merchandise has not been entered for consumption, for warehousing, or admitted to a FTZ. If the merchandise requires an export license, the merchandise is subject to the filing requirements of the licensing Federal agency. See 15 CFR part 30, subpart A.


(e) *Exportation without landing, vessels.* If the merchandise is exported on the arriving vessel without landing, a representative of the vessel who has knowledge of the facts must certify that the merchandise entered for exportation was not discharged during the vessel's stay in port. A charge will be made against the continuous bond on CBP Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.64 of this chapter, if on file. If a continuous bond is not on file, a single entry bond containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.64 will be required. If the merchandise is covered by a TIR carnet, the carnet must not be taken on charge (see § 114.22(c)(2) of this chapter).


(f) *Notice and proof of exportation.* Within two business days after exportation of merchandise described in paragraph (a) of this section, the in-bond record must be updated via a CBP-approved EDI system to reflect that the merchandise has been exported. The principal on any bond filed to guarantee exportation may be required by the port director to provide evidence of exportation in accordance with § 113.55 of this chapter within 30 days of exportation.


(g) *Explosives.* Gunpowder and other explosive substances, the deposit of which in any public store or bonded warehouse is prohibited by law, may be entered on arrival from a foreign port for immediate exportation in-bond by sea, but must be transferred directly from the importing to the exporting vessel.


(h) *Transfer by express shipment.* The transfer of articles by express shipment must be in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 18.22.




