# ยง 600.753   Notice of intent to establish a fishery negotiation panel.

(a) *Publication of notice.* If, after considering the report of a convener or conducting its own assessment, a Council or NMFS decides to establish an FNP, NMFS shall publish in the _Federal Register_ and, as appropriate, in trade or other specialized publications, a document that shall include:


(1) An announcement that the Council or NMFS intends to establish an FNP to negotiate and develop a report concerning specific conservation and management measures.


(2) A description of the subject and scope of the conservation and management measure, and the issues to be considered.


(3) A list of the interests that are likely to be significantly affected by the conservation and management measure.


(4) A list of the persons proposed to represent such interests and the person or persons proposed to represent the Council or NMFS.


(5) A proposed agenda and schedule for completing the work of the FNP.


(6) A description of administrative support for the FNP to be provided by the Council or NMFS, including technical assistance.


(7) A solicitation for comments on the proposal to establish the FNP, and the proposed membership of the FNP.


(8) An explanation of how a person may apply or nominate another person for membership on the FNP, as provided under paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Nomination of members and public comment.* Persons who may be significantly affected by the development of conservation and management measure and who believe that their interests will not be adequately represented by any person specified in a document under paragraph (a)(4) of this section may apply for, or nominate another person for, membership on the FNP to represent such interests. Each application or nomination shall include:


(1) The name of the applicant or nominee and a description of the interests such person shall represent.


(2) Evidence that the applicant or nominee is authorized to represent parties related to the interests the person proposes to represent.


(3) A written commitment that the applicant or nominee shall actively participate in good faith in the development of the conservation and management measure under consideration.


(4) The reasons that the persons specified in the document under paragraph (a)(4) of this section do not adequately represent the interests of the person submitting the application or nomination.


(c) *Public comment.* The Council or NMFS shall provide at least 30 calendar days for the submission of comments and applications under this section.




