# ยง 272.14   Survey procedures.

(a) *Prior to survey.* Unless otherwise directed by MARAD, the Operator of a vessel which is required to be surveyed under this subpart shall contact the ship operations unit of the Region Office in which the survey is to be conducted.


(b) *Operator's assistance to surveyor.* The Operator shall assist the marine surveyor performing the survey for MARAD and shall permit access by that surveyor to all parts of the vessel, its log books, and other official records. The Operator may designate a representative to accompany the marine surveyor during the survey, but no Operator's representative is required to be present during the survey.


(c) *On-subsidy surveys.* An on-subsidy survey consists of the following:


(1) *Vessel survey.* This includes an inspection and the completion of reports by the surveyor, in sufficient detail to reveal a comprehensive picture of the conditions noted.


(2) *On-subsidy survey report.* The on-subsidy survey report consists of:


(i) Ship Survey Report, Form MA-58; and


(ii) As appropriate for the circumstances of the survey and the respective vessel, Forms MA-55 (Turbines and Gears Report); MA-56 (Tooth Contact Report); MA-57 (Drydock Report); and MA-59 (Measurements of Piston Rings and Grooves).


(d) *Off-subsidy surveys.* An off-subsidy survey consists of the following:


(1) *Repair specifications.* The Operator shall prepare and furnish to the appropriate Region Office detailed repair specifications covering all repair work attributable to completed subsidized service.


(2) *Off-subsidy survey report.* The survey report for an off-subsidy survey consists of the repair specifications required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and the findings of the Region Office on these specifications after the survey required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.




