# § 23.75   How can I trade internationally in vicuña (

(a) *U.S. and foreign general provisions.* The import, export, or re-export of specimens of vicuña must meet the requirements of this section and the other requirements of this part (see subparts B and C of this part for prohibitions and application procedures). Certain populations of vicuña are listed in Appendix II for the exclusive purpose of allowing international trade in wool sheared from live vicuñas, cloth made from such wool, and products manufactured from such wool or cloth. All other specimens of vicuña are deemed to be specimens of a species included in Appendix I.


(b) *Vicuña Convention* means the Convenio para la Conservación y Manejo de la Vicuña, of which vicuña range countries are signatories.


(c) *Vicuña logotype* means the logotype adopted by the vicuña range countries under the Vicuña Convention.


(d) *Country of origin* for the purposes of the vicuña label means the name of the country where the vicuña wool in the cloth or product originated.


(e) *Wool sheared from live vicuñas, cloth from such wool, and products manufactured from such wool or cloth* may be imported from Appendix-II populations only when they meet the labeling requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) *Labeling requirements.* Except for cloth containing CITES pre-Convention wool of vicuña, you may import, export, or re-export vicuña cloth only when the reverse side of the cloth bears the vicuña logotype and the selvages bear the words “VICUÑA—COUNTRY OF ORIGIN”. Specimens of other products manufactured from vicuña wool or cloth must bear a label that has the vicuña logotype and the designation “VICUÑA—COUNTRY OF ORIGIN—ARTESANIA”. Each specimen must bear such a label. For import into the United States of raw wool sheared from live vicuña, see the labeling requirements in 50 CFR 17.40(m).



---

[N] [79 FR 30428, May 27, 2014]




