# ยง 1926.1434   Equipment modifications.

(a) Modifications or additions which affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment are prohibited except where the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section are met.


(1) *Manufacturer review and approval.* (i) The manufacturer approves the modifications/additions in writing.


(ii) The load charts, procedures, instruction manuals and instruction plates/tags/decals are modified as necessary to accord with the modification/addition.


(iii) The original safety factor of the equipment is not reduced.


(2) *Manufacturer refusal to review request.* The manufacturer is provided a detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, is asked to approve the modification/addition, but it declines to review the technical merits of the proposal or fails, within 30 days, to acknowledge the request or initiate the review, and all of the following are met:


(i) A registered professional engineer who is a qualified person with respect to the equipment involved:


(A) Approves the modification/addition and specifies the equipment configurations to which that approval applies, and


(B) Modifies load charts, procedures, instruction manuals and instruction plates/tags/decals as necessary to accord with the modification/addition.


(ii) The original safety factor of the equipment is not reduced.


(3) *Unavailable manufacturer.* The manufacturer is unavailable and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(4) *Manufacturer does not complete the review within 120 days of the request.* The manufacturer is provided a detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, is asked to approve the modification/addition, agrees to review the technical merits of the proposal, but fails to complete the review of the proposal within 120 days of the date it was provided the detailed description of the proposed modification/addition, and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(5) *Multiple manufacturers of equipment designed for use on marine work sites.* The equipment is designed for marine work sites, contains major structural components from more than one manufacturer, and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(b) Modifications or additions which affect the capacity or safe operation of the equipment are prohibited where the manufacturer, after a review of the technical safety merits of the proposed modification/addition, rejects the proposal and explains the reasons for the rejection in a written response. If the manufacturer rejects the proposal but does not explain the reasons for the rejection in writing, the employer may treat this as a manufacturer refusal to review the request under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(c) The provisions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to modifications made or approved by the U.S. military.




