# § 1719.5   Application process and required information.

(a) *General.* The following are general provisions for the application process:


(1) The RUS, from time to time and subject to appropriations, will notify the public specifying funding priorities, funding availability, and deadlines.


(2) Complete applications for loans to Eligible entities will be processed pursuant to the provisions in this Part and on a first-come-first served basis until the funding appropriated to the program is fully obligated.


(3) The submittal of a Letter of Intent is required to participate in the program. The letters of intent will be queued as they are received. If it advances program and policy goals, RUS may consider loan applications from Eligible entities that have submitted Letters of Intent under prior funding announcements but that were not invited to proceed with a loan application.


(4) Upon review of the Letter of Intent, RUS may issue an Invitation to proceed with a loan application. RUS reserves the right to notify the Applicant in the queue that the amount of financing RUS will consider for a loan is below the level sought in the Letter of Intent. In making this consideration, RUS will consider overall RUS program objectives or budgetary constraints. An Invitation to proceed with the loan application issued by RUS is not to be deemed as an offer by RUS.


(5) A RESP applicant will have up to ninety (90) days to complete the documentation for a complete loan application. The ninety (90) day timeframe will begin on the date the RESP applicant receives RUS' Invitation to proceed. If the deadline to submit the completed loan application falls on Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal holiday, the application is due the next business day.


(6) The Administrator may grant an extension of time to complete the documentation required for an application if, in the Administrator's sole judgment, the interest of the program would be advanced by the extension.


(7) RUS may limit the number of applications it will consider in the same funding cycle from the same Applicant or combine applications from a single entity.


(b) *Application process.* The application process consists of the following two steps:


(1) An Applicant seeking financing must submit a Letter of Intent to be considered under this Part.


(2) The Letter of Intent must include the following information:


(i) Legal name and status of the entity seeking financing under this Part and its address and principal place of business.


(ii) The Applicant's tax identification number, Unique Entity Identifier, and such similar information as it may be subsequently amended or required for Federal funding.


(iii) A statement indicating if the Applicant is a current or a former RUS borrower.


(iv) A description of the service territory.


(v) Value of the net assets, including any information as to whether the Applicant has been placed in receivership, liquidation, or under a workout agreement or whether the Applicant has declared bankruptcy or has had a decree or order issued for relief in any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar action over the last 10 years. The Applicant must submit a copy of its balance sheet and income statements for the last 3 years. If applicable, the Applicant must provide the balance sheet and income statements for the last 3 years of the entity or entities providing equity or security for the RESP loan together with an explanation of the legal relationship among the entities.


(vi) Identification of a point of contact and provide contact information.


(vii) Description of the program or projects expected to be financed with the RESP loans funds. This description must not exceed five (5) pages (size 8.5 x 11). RUS reserves the right not to consider Letters of Intent where the project description exceeds five (5) pages. The description should include the following:


(A) Description of the service to be provided to Qualified consumers.


(B) Identity of the staff or contractors that will be implementing the EE Program and their credentials.


(C) A summarized version of the expected IWP addressing the following elements:


(*1*) The marketing strategy.


(*2*) The relending process.


(*3*) A brief description of the processes, procedures, and capabilities to quantify and verify the reduction in energy consumption or decrease in the energy costs of the Qualified consumers.


(*4*) A list of eligible EE measures expected to be implemented. An Applicant with an existing EE Program in place by April 8, 2014, may describe the EE measures, its IWP, and its M&V plan for the existing program in its Letter of Intent to expedite the application process.


(viii) The Applicant must provide evidence of its key performance indicators for the 5 complete years prior to the submission of the loan application if the total loan amount exceeds $5 million.


(3) Instructions on how to submit the loan application package will be included in the RUS Invitation to proceed to the RESP applicant. RUS will timely schedule an initial conference call with the RESP applicant to discuss the elements of the loan application.


(i) Content of the application package includes the following:


(A) A signed cover letter from the RESP applicant's General Manager or highest-ranking officer requesting RESP loan funds to make loans to Qualified consumers for the purpose of implementing EE measures.


(B) A signed copy of the board resolution or applicable authorizing document approving and establishing the EE Program and authorizing the Eligible entity to take a RESP loan.


(C) The RESP applicant must provide the Applicant's articles of incorporation or other applicable organizational documents currently in effect, as filed with the appropriate state office, setting forth the RESP applicant's corporate purpose; and the RESP Applicant must also provide the bylaws or other applicable governing documents currently in effect, as adopted by the RESP applicant's applicable governing body. RESP applicants that are active RUS borrowers may comply with this requirement by notifying RUS in writing that there are no material changes to the documents already on file with RUS.


(D) A copy of the duly executed Multi-Tier Action Environmental Compliance Agreement (Multi-Tier Agreement) consistent with Rural Development's Environmental Policies and Procedures, 7 CFR part 1970 or its successor regulation. A copy of the Multi-tier Agreement will be provided to the RESP applicant with the Invitation to proceed and the requirements of § 1970.55 will be discussed with the RESP applicant in the initial conference call. Activities and investments listed in the IWP must match the activities and investments identified in the Multi-tier Agreement executed between RUS and the RESP applicant. Additional RUS environmental review will be required if the RESP applicant pursues additional or different activities other than the ones listed in the Multi-tier Agreement. If funded, a RESP borrower would be responsible for performing and documenting environmental reviews consistent with § 1970.55.


(E) A financial forecast approved by the applicable governing body of the RESP applicant in support of its loan application. The financial forecast must cover a period of at least 10 years and must demonstrate that the RESP applicant's operation is economically viable and that the proposed loan is financially feasible. RUS may request additional information or projections for a longer period, if RUS deems such supplemental data necessary based on the financial structure of the RESP Applicant or necessary to make a determination regarding loan feasibility. A RESP applicant must, after submitting a loan application, promptly notify RUS of any changes in its circumstances that materially affect the information contained in the loan application. The financial forecast and related projections submitted in support of a loan application must include:


(*1*) Current and projected cash flows.


(*2*) A pro forma balance sheet, statement of operations, and general funds summary projected for each year during the forecast period. The requested RESP loan must be included in the financial forecast. Revenue from the interest charged to the Qualified consumer must also be included together with an explanation of the expected use of such proceeds.


(*3*) The financial goals established for margins, debt service coverage, equity, and levels of general funds to be invested in the EE Program. The financial forecast must use the accrual method of accounting for analyzing costs and revenues and, as applicable, compare the economic results of the various alternatives on a present value basis.


(*4*) A full explanation of the assumptions, supporting data, and analysis used in the forecast, including the methodology used to project revenues, operating expenses, and any other factors having a material effect on the balance sheet and the financial ratios such as equity and debt service coverage. RUS may require additional data and analysis on a case-by-case basis to assess the probable future competitiveness of the RESP applicant.


(*5*) Current and projected nonoperating income and expense.


(*6*) An itemized budget and schedule for the activities to be implemented with the RESP funds and a discussion on the expected delinquency and default rates and how the loan loss reserve will be set up. The RESP applicant is expected to forecast the amount of loans to be made to Qualified consumers over a 10-year timeframe. If the RESP applicant determines to charge interest, the RESP applicant must describe how it is going to use the funds generated from the interest to be received from the loans to the Qualified consumers.


(*7*) A sensitivity analysis may be required by RUS on a case-by-case basis.


(F) The RESP applicant must produce, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, an Implementation Work Plan or EE Program Implementation Work Plan (IWP), duly approved by the applicable governing body of the Eligible entity. The IWP will cross reference the Financial Forecast and must address the following core elements:


(*1*) The RESP applicant will identify the Qualified consumers by customer classes that will benefit from the proceeds of a loan made under this Part and explain the promotional activities that will be executed to carry out the energy efficiency relending program. The RESP applicant should also include the target penetration rates by market segment and expected investments in marketing the relending program. In doing so, it is expected that racial and ethnic demographics for the service area would be provided.


(*2*) The RESP applicant will describe the activities and investments (list of EE measures) to be implemented in the EE Program and the expected energy savings.


(*i*) The RESP applicant must include a schedule for implementation with an itemized list of anticipated costs for each task.


(*ii*) The RESP applicant must specify whether a Special advance will be requested and, if so, must detail the expected use of such loan proceeds.


(*iii*) In describing the EE Program, the RESP applicant must describe the intake process, including but not limited to, the underwriting criteria, if applicable, and the quantifiable elements considered in recommending energy retrofits or investments to reduce the Qualified consumer's energy cost or consumption. It is also expected that a description of the process for documenting and perfecting collateral arrangements with Qualified Consumers, when applicable, be also included in the narrative.


(*iv*) The RESP applicant will also identify the staff that will be carrying out the EE Program and will describe the tasks that will be performed by such individuals together with their expertise and credentials. Should the RESP applicant decide to outsource implementation of the EE Program, the credentials and expertise of the third party implementing the outsourced tasks must be described. Consideration must be given to the third party's ability and expertise in implementing an EE Program at the scale pursued with the RESP funding. The statement of qualifications must show the party's experience carrying out the financial and technical components of an EE Program at the desired scale. A RESP applicant with an existing EE Program as of April 8, 2014, may submit the IWP plan previously established to fulfill this requirement.


(*3*) The RESP applicant must include an evaluation of the financial and operational risk associated with the EE Program. When applicable, the RESP applicant should include an estimate of the prospective consumer loan losses consistent with the loan loss reserve.


(*4*) A Measurement and Verification (M&V) plan that meets the requirements of § 1719.10. In the alternative, a RESP applicant may provide an M&V plan approved by a state or local regulatory entity.


(G) The RESP applicant must provide a statement of compliance with the federal statutes as provided in § 1719.11.



---

[N] [85 FR 18418, Apr. 2, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 34957, May 1, 2024; 89 FR 41300, May 13, 2024]






