# ยง 575.6   Settlement, reduction, or waiver of civil fine.

(a) *Reduction or waiver.* (1) Upon written request of a respondent received at any time prior to the filing of a notice of appeal under part 584 or part 585 of this chapter, the Chairman may reduce or waive a civil fine if he or she determines that, taking into account exceptional factors present in a particular case, the fine is demonstrably unjust.


(2) All petitions for reduction or waiver shall contain:


(i) A detailed description of the violation that is the subject of the fine;


(ii) A detailed recitation of the facts that support a finding that the fine is demonstrably unjust, accompanied by underlying documentation, if any; and


(iii) A declaration, signed and dated by the respondent and his or her counsel or representative, if any, as follows: Under penalty of perjury, I declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the representations made in this petition are true and correct.


(3) The Chairman shall serve the respondent with written notice of his or her determination under paragraph (a) of this section, including a statement of the grounds for the Chairman's decision.


(b) *Settlement.* At any time prior to the filing of a notice of appeal under part 584 or part 585 of this chapter, the Chairman and the respondent may agree to settle an enforcement action, including the amount of the associated civil fine. In the event a settlement is reached, a settlement agreement shall be prepared and executed by the Chairman and the respondent. If a settlement agreement is executed, the respondent shall be deemed to have waived all rights to further review of the violation or civil fine in question, except as otherwise provided expressly in the settlement agreement. In the absence of a settlement of the issues under this paragraph, the respondent may contest the assessed civil fine before the Commission in accordance with part 584 or part 585 of this chapter.



---

[N] [58 FR 5844, Jan. 22, 1993, as amended at 80 FR 31995, June 5, 2015]




