# ยง 95.33   Security education.

All cleared employees must be provided with security training and briefings commensurate with their involvement with classified information. The facility official(s) responsible for the program shall determine the means and methods for providing security education and training. A licensee or other entity subject to part 95 may obtain defensive security, threat awareness, and other education and training information and material from their Cognizant Security Agency (CSA) or other appropriate sources.


(a) *Facility Security Officer training.* Licensees or other entities subject to part 95 are responsible for ensuring that the Facility Security Officer, and other personnel performing security duties, complete security training deemed appropriate by the CSA. Training requirements must be based on the facility's involvement with classified information and may include a Facility Security Officer Orientation Course and, for Facility Security Officers at facilities with safeguarding capability, a Facility Security Officer Program Management Course. Training, if required, should be completed within 1 year of appointment to the position of Facility Security Officer.


(b) *Government-provided briefings.* The CSA is responsible for providing initial security briefings to the Facility Security Officer, and for ensuring that other briefings required for special categories of information are provided.


(c) *Temporary help suppliers.* A temporary help supplier, or other contractor who employs cleared individuals solely for dispatch elsewhere, is responsible for ensuring that required briefings are provided to their cleared personnel. The temporary help supplier or the using licensee's, certificate holder's, or other person's facility may conduct these briefings.


(d) *Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement (SF-312).* The SF-312 is an agreement between the United States and an individual who is cleared for access to classified information. An employee issued an initial access authorization must, in accordance with the requirements of ยง 25.23 of this chapter, execute an SF-312 before being granted access to classified information. The Facility Security Officer shall forward the executed SF-312 to the CSA for retention. If the employee refuses to execute the SF-312, the licensee or other facility shall deny the employee access to classified information and submit a report to the CSA. The SF-312 must be signed and dated by the employee and witnessed. The employee's and witness' signatures must bear the same date.


(e) *Access to classified information.* Employees may have access to classified information only if:


(1) A favorable determination of eligibility for access has been made with respect to such employee by the CSA;


(2) The employee has signed an approved non-disclosure agreement; and


(3) The employee has a need-to-know the information.


(f) *Initial security briefings.* Initial training shall be provided to every employee who has met the standards for access to classified information in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section before the employee is granted access to classified information. The initial training shall include the following topics:


(1) A Threat Awareness Briefing;


(2) A Defensive Security Briefing;


(3) An overview of the security classification system;


(4) Employee reporting obligations and requirements; and


(5) Security procedures and duties applicable to the employee's job.


(g) *Refresher briefings.* The licensee or other entities subject to part 95 shall conduct refresher briefings for all cleared employees at least annually. As a minimum, the refresher briefing must reinforce the information provided during the initial briefing and inform employees of appropriate changes in security regulations. This requirement may be satisfied by use of audio/video materials and/or by issuing written materials to cleared employees.


(h) Persons who apply derivative classification markings shall receive training specific to the proper application of the derivative classification principles of Executive Order 13526, *Classified National Security Information* (75 FR 707; January 5, 2010), before derivatively classifying information and at least once every 2 years thereafter.


(i) *Debriefings.* Licensee and other facilities shall debrief cleared employees at the time of termination of employment (discharge, resignation, or retirement); when an employee's access authorization is terminated, suspended, or revoked; and upon termination of the Facility Clearance.


(j) Records reflecting an individual's initial and refresher security orientations and security termination must be maintained for 3 years after termination of the individual's access authorization.



---

[N] [78 FR 48041, Aug. 7, 2013]




