# ยง 200.102   Exceptions.

(a) *OMB class exceptions.* Except for subpart F, OMB may allow exceptions from requirements of this part for classes of Federal awards, recipients, or subrecipients when the exceptions are not prohibited by statute. For example, Federal agencies may request exceptions in support of innovative program designs that apply a risk-based, data-driven framework to alleviate select compliance requirements and hold recipients accountable for good performance. See also ยง 200.206. Federal agencies may also request exceptions in emergency situations. When OMB allows an exception to requirements of this part, the Federal agency remains responsible for ensuring the exception is applied to Federal awards in a manner consistent with Federal statutes and regulations.


(b) *Statutory and regulatory exceptions.* A Federal agency may adjust requirements to a class of Federal awards, recipients, or subrecipients when required by Federal statutes or regulations, except for the requirements in subpart F. Except for provisions in subpart F, when a Federal statute requires exceptions to requirements of this part for a class of Federal awards, recipients, or subrecipients, a Federal agency does not need OMB approval to allow those exceptions. See also ยง 200.106.


(c) *Federal agency exceptions.* Federal agencies may allow exceptions to requirements of this part on a case-by-case basis for individual Federal awards, recipients, or subrecipients, except when the exceptions are prohibited by law or other approval is expressly required by this part. Only the cognizant agency for indirect costs may authorize exceptions related to cost allocation plans or indirect cost rate proposals. A Federal agency may also apply less restrictive requirements when issuing fixed amount awards (see ยง 200.1), except for those requirements imposed by statute or in subpart F.






