# § 203.3   Approval of mortgagees for Direct Endorsement.

(a) *Direct Endorsement approval.* To be approved for the Direct Endorsement program set forth in § 203.5, a mortgagee must be an approved mortgagee meeting the requirements of §§ 202.13, 202.14 or 202.17 and this section.


(b) *Special requirements.* The mortgagee must establish that it meets the following qualifications.


(1) The mortgagee has five years of experience in the origination of single family mortgages. The Secretary will approve a mortgagee with less than five years experience in the origination of single family mortgages if a principal officer has had a minimum of five years of managerial experience in the origination of single family mortgages.


(2) The mortgagee has on its permanent staff an underwriter that is authorized by the mortgagee to bind the mortgagee on matters involving the origination of mortgages through the Direct Endorsement procedure and that is registered with the Secretary and such registration is maintained with the Secretary. The technical staff may be employees of the mortgagee or may be hired on a fee basis from a roster maintained by the Secretary. The mortgagee shall use appraisers permitted by § 203.5(e). 


(3) [Reserved]


(4) The mortgagee must submit initially 15 mortgages processed in accordance with §§ 203.5 and 203.255. Separate approval is required to originate mortgages under part 206 of this chapter through the Direct Endorsement program unless at least 50 mortgages closed by the mortgagee have been insured under part 206 of this chapter prior to September 15, 1995. Other mortgagees who have not closed at least 50 mortgages under part 206 of this chapter must submit five (5) Home Equity Conversion Mortgages, processed in accordance with §§ 203.3 and 203.255. The documents required by § 203.255 will be reviewed by the Secretary and, if acceptable, commitments will be issued prior to endorsement of the mortgages for insurance. If the underwriting and processing of these 15 mortgages (or the 5 Home Equity Conversion Mortgages) is satisfactory, then the mortgagee may be approved to close subsequent mortgages and submit them directly for endorsement for insurance in accordance with the process set forth in § 203.255. Unsatisfactory performance by the mortgagee at this stage constitutes grounds for denial of participation in the program, or for continued pre-endorsement review of a mortgagee's submissions. If participation in the program is denied, such denial is effective immediately and may be appealed in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Unsatisfactory performance solely with respect to mortgages under 24 CFR part 206 may, at the option of the Secretary, be grounds for denial of participation or for continued pre-endorsement review for 24 CFR part 206 mortgages without affecting the mortgagee's processing of mortgages under other parts. 


(5) The mortgagee shall promptly notify those HUD offices which have granted approval under this section of any changes that affect qualifications under this section.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Mortgagee sanctions.* Depending upon the nature and extent of the noncompliance with the requirements applicable to the Direct Endorsement process, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary may take any of the following actions:


(1) *Probation.* The Secretary may place a mortgagee on Direct Endorsement probation for a specified period of time for the purpose of evaluating the mortgagee's compliance with the requirements of the Direct Endorsement procedure. Such probation is distinct from probation imposed by the Mortgagee Review Board under part 25 of this chapter. During the probation period specified by this section, the mortgagee may continue to process Direct Endorsement mortgages, subject to conditions required by the Secretary. The Secretary may require the mortgagee to:


(i) Process mortgages in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section;


(ii) Submit to additional training;


(iii) Make changes in the quality control plan required by § 202.5(h) of this chapter; and


(iv) Take other actions, which may include, but are not limited to, periodic reporting to the Secretary, and submission to the Secretary of internal audits.


(2) *Termination of Direct Endorsement approval.* (i) A mortgagee's approval to participate in the Direct Endorsement program may be terminated in a particular jurisdiction by the local HUD office or on a nationwide basis by HUD Central Office. The HUD office instituting the termination action shall provide the mortgagee with written notice of the grounds for the action and of the right to an informal hearing before the office initiating the termination action. Such hearing shall be expeditiously arranged, and the mortgagee may be represented by counsel. Any termination instituted under this section is distinct from withdrawal of mortgagee approval by the Mortgagee Review Board under part 25 of this title.


(ii) After consideration of the materials presented, the decision maker shall advise the mortgagee in writing whether the termination is rescinded, modified or affirmed.


(iii) The mortgagee may appeal such decision to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing or his or her designee. A decision by the Deputy Assistant Secretary or designee shall constitute final agency action.


(iv) Termination of an origination approval agreement under part 202 of this chapter for a mortgagee or one or more branch offices automatically terminates Direct Endorsement approval for the mortgagee or the branch office or offices without any further requirement to comply with this paragraph.



---

[N] [57 FR 58345, Dec. 9, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 42758, Aug. 16, 1995; 61 FR 2651, Jan. 26, 1996; 62 FR 20088, Apr. 24, 1997; 62 FR 65182, Dec. 10, 1997]




