# § 241.25   Deportation.

(a) *Definitions of terms.* For the purposes of this section, the following terms mean:


(1) *Adjacent island*—as defined in section 101(b)(5) of the Act.


(2) *Foreign contiguous territory*—any country sharing a common boundary with the United States.


(3) *Residence in foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island*—any physical presence, regardless of intent, in a foreign contiguous territory or an adjacent island if the government of such territory or island agrees to accept the alien.


(4) *Aircraft or vessel*—any conveyance and other mode of travel by which arrival is effected.


(5) *Next available flight*—the carrier's next regularly scheduled departure to the excluded alien's point of embarkation regardless of seat availability. If the carrier's next regularly scheduled departure to the excluded aliens point of embarkation is full, the carrier has the option of arranging for return transportation on other carriers which service the excluded aliens point of embarkation.


(b) *Place to which deported.* Any alien (other than an alien crewmember or an alien who boarded an aircraft or vessel in foreign contiguous territory or an adjacent island) who is ordered excluded shall be deported to the country where the alien boarded the vessel or aircraft on which the alien arrived in the United States. Otherwise, the Secretary may, as a matter of discretion, deport the alien to the country of which the alien is a subject, citizen, or national; the country where the alien was born; the country where the alien has a residence; or any other country.


(c) *Contiguous territory and adjacent islands.* Any alien ordered excluded who boarded an aircraft or vessel in foreign contiguous territory or in any adjacent island shall be deported to such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island if the alien is a native, citizen, subject, or national of such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island, or if the alien has a residence in such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island. Otherwise, the alien shall be deported, in the first instance, to the country in which is located the port at which the alien embarked for such foreign contiguous territory or adjacent island.


(d) *Land border pedestrian arrivals.* Any alien ordered excluded who arrived at a land border on foot shall be deported in the same manner as if the alien had boarded a vessel or aircraft in foreign contiguous territory.



---

[N] [62 FR 10378, Mar. 6, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 673, Jan. 5, 2005]




