# ยง 418.21   Specialized definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


(a) Except as provided below the general definitions, abbreviations and methods of analysis set forth in 40 CFR part 401 shall apply to this subpart.


(b) The term *product* shall mean the anhydrous ammonia content of the compound manufactured.


(c) The term *shipping losses* shall mean: Discharges resulting from loading tank cars or tank trucks; discharges resulting from cleaning tank cars or tank trucks; and discharges from air pollution control scrubbers designed to control emissions from loading or cleaning tank cars or tank trucks.


(d) The term *process wastewater* shall mean any water which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. The term *process wastewater* does not include non-contact cooling water, as defined below.


(e) The term *non-contact cooling water* shall mean water which is used in a cooling system designed so as to maintain constant separation of the cooling medium from all contact with process chemicals but which may on the occasion of corrosion, cooling system leakage or similar cooling system failures contain small amounts of process chemicals: *Provided,* That all reasonable measures have been taken to prevent, reduce, eliminate and control to the maximum extent feasible such contamination: *And provided further,* That all reasonable measures have been taken that will mitigate the effects of such contamination once it has occurred.



---

[N] [44 FR 64082, Nov. 6, 1979]




