# § 5.44   Auxiliary facility decal.

(a) *Description.* The Auxiliary facility decal is composed of two parts. The upper part is a conventional white shield with a medium blue (Coast Guard blue) Coast Guard Auxiliary emblem centered on a broad diagonal red (Coast Guard red) slash which is at a 70 degree angle, rising toward the viewer's right. The red (Coast Guard red) slash is followed, on the viewer's left, by two narrow, parallel stripes—first a white stripe, and then a medium blue (Coast Guard blue) stripe. The entire design is centered on the shield. The lower part displays two laterally radiating wreath branches centered immediately beneath the shield. A broad diagonal red (Coast Guard red) slash, which is at a 70 degree angle, rising toward the viewer's right and followed, on the viewer's left, by two narrow, parallel stripes, first a white stripe and then a medium blue (Coast Guard blue) stripe, is displayed on the wreath's right-hand branch.


(b) *Display.* Vessels, aircraft, motorized vehicles, trailers, radio stations and other equipment accepted for use by the Coast Guard must display the Auxiliary facility decal as authorized in the Auxiliary Operations Policy Manual referenced in § 5.9.


(1) On vessels, the decal must be displayed on the port side of the vessel so as to be visible by another vessel when meeting such vessel in a port-to-port situation.


(2) On aircraft, the decal must be displayed on the pilot's side of the forward half of the aircraft.


(3) On radio facilities, the miniature decal must be displayed on the radio, and the full-size decal must be displayed on the exterior or interior of the building or trailer in which the radio is housed, or, in the case of mobile radios, on any legal place on the motor vehicle in which the radio is contained.


(4) On motorized vehicles, trailers and other equipment, the decal must be displayed on a clearly visible exterior location.




