# § 63.8256   What records must I keep?

(a) *General records.* You must keep the records in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv). 


(2) The records specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section related to deviations.


(i) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.8222 and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(ii) Records of the information reported as required in § 63.8254(b)(7) through (9) and (11) through (13).




(b) Records associated with the by-product hydrogen stream and end box ventilation system vent emission limitations and the mercury thermal recovery unit vent emission limitations. You must keep the records in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section related to the emission limitations in § 63.8190(a)(2) through (3) and (b). 


(1) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(2) Records of the mercury emissions monitoring conducted during the performance tests.


(3) Records of the continuous or periodic mercury emissions monitoring data.


(4) Records of the 52-week rolling average mercury emissions.


(5) Records associated with your site-specific monitoring plan required in § 63.8242(a)(3) (*i.e.,* results of inspections, calibrations, and validation checks of each mercury concentration continuous monitoring system (CMS)).


(6) Records of chlorine production on a weekly basis.










(c) Records associated with the work practice standards for mercury emissions that must be kept prior to the compliance date in § 63.8186(a)(2).




(1) If you choose not to institute a cell room monitoring program according to § 63.8192(g) of this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Records specified in Table 9 to this subpart related to the work practice standards in Tables 1 through 4 of this subpart.


(ii) Your current floor-level mercury vapor measurement plan.


(iii) Records of the average value calculated from at least three measurements taken according to your floor-level mercury vapor measurement plan.


(iv) Records indicated in § 63.8192(d)(4)(i) for maintenance activities that cause the floor-level mercury concentration to exceed the action level.


(v) Records of all inspections and corrective actions taken in response to a non-maintenance related situation in which the mercury vapor concentration exceeds the floor-level mercury concentration action level.


(2) You must maintain a copy of your current washdown plan and records of when each washdown occurs.


(3) You must maintain records of the mass of virgin mercury added to cells for each reporting period.


(4) If you choose to institute a cell room monitoring program according to § 63.8192(g) of this subpart, you must keep your current cell room monitoring plan and the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Records of the monitoring conducted in accordance with § 63.8192(g)(2)(i) to establish your action level, and records demonstrating the development of this action level.


(ii) Records of the cell room mercury concentration monitoring data collected.


(iii) Instances when the action level is exceeded.


(iv) Records specified in § 63.8192(g)(4)(i) for maintenance activities that cause the mercury vapor concentration to exceed the action level.


(v) Records of all inspections and corrective actions taken in response to a non-maintenance related situation in which the mercury vapor concentration exceeds the action level.


(d) Records associated with the periodic monitoring option if your final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber. You must keep the records in paragraph (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Records of the CPMS data collected during the performance test as specified in § 63.8232(f)(1).


(2) Records documenting the development of the maximum monitoring value or minimum monitoring value, as appropriate, according to § 63.8232(f)(2).


(3) Records of hourly average values of applicable parameters monitored as specified in § 63.8244(b)(2)(ii) or (iii).


(e) Records associated with the work practice standards for mercury emissions that must be kept after the compliance date in § 63.8186(a)(2).


(1) The records specified in Table 9 to this subpart related to the work practice standards in Tables 1 through 4 of this subpart.


(2) You must maintain a copy of your current washdown plan and records of when each washdown occurs.


(3) You must maintain records of the mass of virgin mercury added to cells for each reporting period.


(4) You must keep your current cell room monitoring plan and the records specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Records of the monitoring conducted in accordance with § 63.8192(g)(2)(i) to establish your action level, and records demonstrating the development of this action level.


(ii) Records of the cell room mercury concentration monitoring data collected.


(iii) Instances when the action level is exceeded.


(iv) Records specified in § 63.8192(g)(4)(i) for maintenance activities that cause the mercury vapor concentration to exceed the action level.


(v) Records of all inspections and corrective actions taken in response to a non-maintenance related situation in which the mercury vapor concentration exceeds the action level.


(f) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section associated with the work practice standards for fugitive chlorine emissions specified in § 63.8192(h) after the compliance date in § 63.8186(a)(2).


(1) Identification of all equipment in the mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility affected source containing chlorine gas at a concentration of greater than 5 percent by volume. You may exclude equipment that is under negative pressure.


(2) Records of the information reported as required in § 63.8254(b)(13) and (14).


(3) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section for the chlorine sensors required by § 63.8192(h)(2).


(i) The location, manufacturer, and model number of each sensor.


(ii) The manufacturer's instructions for operation, maintenance, and calibration of the chlorine sensors.


(iii) Records of all maintenance and calibration of the chlorine sensors.


(iv) You must record all periods when the chlorine sensors are not operating.


(4) You must maintain records of all chlorine concentration measurements.







---

[N] [68 FR 70928, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 27023, May 6, 2022]




