# § 62.8103   Identification of plan.

(a) The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency a “State Plan for implementation and enforcement of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cb, Emissions Guidelines for Large Municipal Waste Combustors” on December 15, 1997 and supplemented on June 22, 1998.


(b) Identification of sources: The plan applies to existing facilities with a municipal waste combustor unit capacity greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste.


(c) On October 7, 1998 and supplemented on November 5, 1998, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation submitted revisions to the State Plan which incorporates emission limits and compliance schedules as amended by EPA on August 25, 1997 (65 FR 45116).


(d) Identification of plan: On July 12, 2013, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a Clean Air Act section 111(d)/129 revised plan, and the associated Table 2 of subdivision 200.10(b) at Part 200 of Title 6 NYCRR, addressing 40 CFR part 60 subpart Cb, “Emissions Guidelines and Compliance Times for Large Municipal Waste Combustors That are Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994,” as amended on May 10, 2006. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (g) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.






(e) Identification of sources: The plan applies to all existing facilities in New York with a municipal waste combustion capacity greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste for which construction commenced on or before September 20, 1994, and which are subject to 40 CFR part 60 subpart Cb.




(f) Effective date: The effective date of the plan for October 4, 2021.


(g) Incorporation by reference:


(1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(1) and 1 CFR part 51. The material is available from the sources identified elsewhere in this paragraph. It may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Region 2 Office, 290 Broadway, 25th Floor, New York, New York 10007-1866, 212-637-3378. It may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of New York, Department of State, Albany, New York 12231; *https://dos.ny.gov/state-register*.


(i) 6 NYCRR sec. 200.10(b)-Cb: Official Compilation of (New York) Codes, Rules and Regulations; Title 6—Environmental Conservation; Part 200—General Provisions; Section 200.10—Federal standards and requirements; Paragraph (b)—Table 2—Delegated Federal New Source Performance Standards of 40 CFR 60, entry Cb, Large Municipal Waste Combustors That are Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994; effective September 4, 2019 (original effective date: October 20, 2007)


(ii) [Reserved]





---

[N] [63 FR 41429, Aug. 4, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 6237, Feb. 9, 1999; 86 FR 49484, Sept. 3, 2021]




