# § 21.3305   “Interrupted” status.

(a) *Special restorative training should be uninterrupted.* An eligible person once entered into special restorative training should pursue his or her course to completion without interruption. Wherever possible, continuous training shall be provided for each eligible person, including training during the summer, except where, because of his or her physical condition or other good reason, it would not be to his or her best interest to pursue training. As long as the eligible person is progressing satisfactorily toward overcoming the effects of his or her disability(ies), the eligible person will be continued in his or her course of training without accounting for days of nonattendance within the authorized enrollment.


(b) *Interrupting special restorative training.* Special restorative training will be interrupted as necessary under the following conditions:


(1) During summer vacations or periods when no instruction is given before and after summer sessions.


(2) During a prolonged period of illness or medical infeasibility.


(3) When the eligible person voluntarily abandons special restorative training.


(4) When the eligible person fails to make satisfactory progress in the special restorative training course.


(5) When the eligible person is no longer acceptable to the institution because of failure to maintain satisfactory conduct or progress in accordance with the rules of the institution.


(6) When the eligible person's progress is materially retarded because of his or her negligence, lack of application or misconduct.



---

[N] [48 FR 37973, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 73 FR 2425, Jan. 15, 2008]




