# § 1045.201   What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?

Engine manufacturers must certify their engines with respect to the exhaust emission standards in this part. Manufacturers of engines, equipment, or fuel-system components may need to certify their products with respect to evaporative emission standards as described in 40 CFR 1060.1 and 1060.601. The following general requirements apply for obtaining a certificate of conformity:


(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year.


(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1045.255).


(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1045.250.


(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).


(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.


(f) See § 1045.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.


(g) We may require you to deliver your test engines to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1045.235(c)).


(h) For engines that become new after being placed into service, such as engines installed on imported vessels or engines converted to run on a different fuel, we may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the intent of this part. *See* § 1045.645 and the definition of “new propulsion marine engine” in § 1045.801.



---

[N] [73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010]




