# § 1240.1   Purpose, applicability, reservations of authority, reporting, and timing.

(a) *Purpose.* This part establishes capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards for the Enterprises. This part includes methodologies for calculating capital requirements, disclosure requirements related to the capital requirements, and transition provisions for the application of this part.


(b) *Authorities*—(1) *Limitations of authority.* Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of FHFA to take action under other provisions of law, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient capital levels, or violations of law or regulation under the Safety and Soundness Act, and including action under sections 1313(a)(2), 1365-1367, 1371-1376 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513(a)(2), 4615-4617, and 4631-4636).


(2) *Permissible activities.* Nothing in this part may be construed to authorize, permit, or require an Enterprise to engage in any activity not authorized by its authorizing statute or that would otherwise be inconsistent with its authorizing statute or the Safety and Soundness Act.


(c) *Applicability*—(1) *Covered regulated entities.* This part applies on a consolidated basis to each Enterprise.


(2) *Capital requirements and overall capital adequacy standards.* Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must calculate its capital requirements and meet the overall capital adequacy standards in subpart B of this part.


(3) *Regulatory capital.* Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must calculate its regulatory capital in accordance with subpart C of this part.


(4) *Risk-weighted assets.* (i) Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must use the methodologies in subparts D and F of this part to calculate standardized total risk-weighted assets.


(ii) Subject to § 1240.4, each Enterprise must use the methodologies in subparts E and F of this part to calculate advanced approaches total risk-weighted assets.


(d) *Reservation of authority regarding capital.* Subject to applicable provisions of the Safety and Soundness Act—


(1) *Additional capital in the aggregate.* FHFA may require an Enterprise to hold an amount of regulatory capital greater than otherwise required under this part if FHFA determines that the Enterprise's capital requirements under this part are not commensurate with the Enterprise's credit, market, operational, or other risks.


(2) *Regulatory capital elements.* (i) If FHFA determines that a particular common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital element has characteristics or terms that diminish its ability to absorb losses, or otherwise present safety and soundness concerns, FHFA may require the Enterprise to exclude all or a portion of such element from common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital, as appropriate.


(ii) Notwithstanding the criteria for regulatory capital instruments set forth in subpart C of this part, FHFA may find that a capital element may be included in an Enterprise's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, or tier 2 capital on a permanent or temporary basis consistent with the loss absorption capacity of the element and in accordance with § 1240.20(e).


(3) *Risk-weighted asset amounts.* If FHFA determines that the risk-weighted asset amount calculated under this part by the Enterprise for one or more exposures is not commensurate with the risks associated with those exposures, FHFA may require the Enterprise to assign a different risk-weighted asset amount to the exposure(s) or to deduct the amount of the exposure(s) from its regulatory capital.


(4) *Total leverage.* If FHFA determines that the adjusted total asset amount calculated by an Enterprise is inappropriate for the exposure(s) or the circumstances of the Enterprise, FHFA may require the Enterprise to adjust this exposure amount in the numerator and the denominator for purposes of the leverage ratio calculations.


(5) *Consolidation of certain exposures.* FHFA may determine that the risk-based capital treatment for an exposure or the treatment provided to an entity that is not consolidated on the Enterprise's balance sheet is not commensurate with the risk of the exposure and the relationship of the Enterprise to the entity. Upon making this determination, FHFA may require the Enterprise to treat the exposure or entity as if it were consolidated on the balance sheet of the Enterprise for purposes of determining the Enterprise's risk-based capital requirements and calculating the Enterprise's risk-based capital ratios accordingly. FHFA will look to the substance of, and risk associated with, the transaction, as well as other relevant factors FHFA deems appropriate in determining whether to require such treatment.


(6) *Other reservation of authority.* With respect to any deduction or limitation required under this part, FHFA may require a different deduction or limitation, provided that such alternative deduction or limitation is commensurate with the Enterprise's risk and consistent with safety and soundness.


(e) *Corrective action and enforcement.* (1) FHFA may enforce this part pursuant to sections 1371, 1372, and 1376 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4631, 4632, 4636).


(2) FHFA also may enforce the total capital requirement established under § 1240.10(a) and the core capital requirement established under § 1240.10(e) pursuant to section 1364 of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4614).


(3) This part is also a prudential standard adopted under section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b), excluding § 1240.11, which is a prudential standard only for purposes of § 1240.4. Section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b) authorizes the Director to require that an Enterprise submit a corrective plan under § 1236.4 specifying the actions the Enterprise will take to correct the deficiency if the Director determines that an Enterprise is not in compliance with this part.


(f) *Reporting procedure and timing*—(1) *Capital Reports*—(i) *In general.* Each Enterprise shall file a capital report with FHFA every calendar quarter providing the information and data required by FHFA. The specifics of required information and data, and the report format, will be separately provided to the Enterprise by FHFA.


(ii) *Required content.* The capital report shall include, as of the end of the last calendar quarter—


(A) The common equity tier 1 capital, core capital, tier 1 capital, total capital, and adjusted total capital of the Enterprise;


(B) The stress capital buffer, the capital conservation buffer amount (if prescribed by FHFA), the stability capital buffer, and the maximum payout ratio of the Enterprise;


(C) The adjusted total assets of the Enterprise; and


(D) The standardized total risk-weighted assets of the Enterprise.


(2) *Timing.* The Enterprise must submit the capital report not later than 60 days after the last day of the calendar quarter or at such other time as the Director requires.


(3) *Approval.* The capital report must be approved by the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of an Enterprise prior to submission to FHFA.


(4) *Adjustment.* In the event an Enterprise makes an adjustment to its financial statements for a quarter or a date for which information was provided pursuant to this paragraph (f), which would cause an adjustment to a capital report, an Enterprise must file with the Director an amended capital report not later than 15 days after the date of such adjustment.


(5) *Public disclosure.* An Enterprise must disclose in an appropriate publicly available filing or other document each of the information reported under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section.




