# § 431.610   Relations with standard-setting and survey agencies.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* This section implements—


(1) Section 1902(a)(9) of the Act, concerning the designation of State authorities to be responsible for establishing and maintaining health and other standards for institutions participating in Medicaid; and 


(2) Section 1902(a)(33) of the Act, concerning the designation of the State licensing agency to be responsible for determining whether institutions and agencies meet requirements for participation in the State's Medicaid program. 


(3) Section 1919(g)(1)(A) of the Act, concerning responsibilities of the State for certifying the compliance of non-State operated NFs with requirements of participation in the State's Medicaid program. 


(b) *Designated agency responsible for health standards.* A State plan must designate, as the State authority responsible for establishing and maintaining health standards for private or public institutions that provide services to Medicaid beneficiaries, the same State agency that is used by the Secretary to determine qualifications of institutions and suppliers of services to participate in Medicare (see 42 CFR 405.1902). The requirement for establishing and maintaining standards does not apply with respect to religious nonmedical institutions as defined in § 440.170(b) of this chapter. 


(c) *Designated agency responsible for standards other than health standards.* The plan must designate the Medicaid agency or other appropriate State authority or authorities to be responsible for establishing and maintaining standards, other than those relating to health, for private or public institutions that provide services to Medicaid beneficiaries. 


(d) *Description and retention of standards.* (1) The plan must describe the standards established under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(2) The plan must provide that the Medicaid agency keeps these standards on file and makes them available to the Administrator upon request. 


(e) *Designation of survey agency.* The plan must provide that—


(1) The agency designated in paragraph (b) of this section, or another State agency responsible for licensing health institutions in the State, determines for the Medicaid agency whether institutions and agencies meet the requirements for participation in the Medicaid program; and 


(2) The agency staff making the determination under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is the same staff responsible for making similar determinations for institutions or agencies participating under Medicare; and 


(3) The agency designated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section makes recommendations regarding the effective dates of provider agreements, as determined under § 431.108.


(f) *Written agreement required.* The plan must provide for a written agreement (or formal written intra-agency arrangement) between the Medicaid agency and the survey agency designated under paragraph (e) of this section, covering the activities of the survey agency in carrying out its responsibilities. The agreement must specify that—


(1) Federal requirements and the forms, methods and procedures that the Administrator designates will be used to determine provider eligibility and certification under Medicaid; 


(2) Inspectors surveying the premises of a provider will—


(i) Complete inspection reports; 


(ii) Note on completed reports whether or not each requirement for which an inspection is made is satisfied; and 


(iii) Document deficiencies in reports; 


(3) The survey agency will keep on file all information and reports used in determining whether participating facilities meet Federal requirements; and 


(4) The survey agency will make the information and reports required under paragraph (f)(3) of this section readily accessible to HHS and the Medicaid agency as necessary—


(i) For meeting other requirements under the plan; and 


(ii) For purposes consistent with the Medicaid agency's effective administration of the program. 


(g) *Responsibilities of survey agency.* The plan must provide that, in certifying NFs, HHAs, and ICF-IIDs, the survey agency designated under paragraph (e) of this section will —


(1) Review and evaluate medical and independent professional review team reports obtained under part 456 of this subchapter as they relate to health and safety requirements; 


(2) Have qualified personnel perform on-site inspections periodically as appropriate based on the timeframes in the correction plan and—


(i) At least once during each certification period or more frequently if there is a compliance question; and 


(ii) For non-State operated NFs, within the timeframes specified in § 488.308 of this chapter. 


(3) Have qualified personnel perform on-site inspections—


(i) At least once during each certification period or more frequently if there is a compliance question; and 


(ii) For intermediate care facilities with deficiencies as described in §§ 442.112 and 442.113 of this subchapter, within 6 months after initial correction plan approval and every 6 months thereafter as required under those sections.


(h) *FFP for survey responsibilities.* (1) FFP is available in expenditures that the survey agency makes to carry out its survey and certification responsibilities under the agreement specified in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(2) FFP is not available in any expenditures that the survey agency makes that are attributable to the State's overall responsibilities under State law and regulations for establishing and maintaining standards. 



---

[N] [43 FR 45188, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 24883, Apr. 11, 1980; 53 FR 20494, June 3, 1988; 57 FR 43923, Sept. 23, 1992; 59 FR 56233, Nov. 10, 1994; 62 FR 43936, Aug. 18, 1997; 64 FR 67052, Nov. 30, 1999; 78 FR 72320, Dec. 2, 2013]




