# § 12.11   Formalities of filing of documents with the Proceedings Clerk.

(a) If a party files by personal delivery or mail, an original of all documents shall be filed with the Proceedings Clerk. If a party files a document by fax or email in accordance with § 12.10(a)(2), they should not also send paper copies.


(b) *First page.* The first page of all documents filed with the Proceedings Clerk must include the Commission's name, the docket number, the title of the proceeding, the subject of the document and the name of the person on whose behalf the document is being filed. In the complaint, the title of the proceeding shall include the names of all the complainants and respondents, but in documents subsequently filed it is sufficient to state the name of the first complainant and first respondent named in the complaint.


(c) *Format.* Documents must be legible and printed on normal white paper of eight and one half by eleven inches. Documents emailed in accordance with the requirements of § 12.10(a)(2) must be in PDF or other non-alterable form. The typeface, margins, and spacing of all typed documents presented for filing should meet the following requirements: all text should be 12-point type or larger, except for text in footnotes which may be 10-point type; all documents should have at least one-inch margins on all sides; all text must be double-spaced, except for headings, text in footnotes, or block quotations, which may be single-spaced.


(d) *Signature*—(1) *Manner.* The original of all papers must be signed in ink by persons filing the same or by their duly authorized agents or attorneys.


(2) *Effect.* The signature on any document of persons acting either for themselves or as attorney or agent for another constitutes certification by them that:


(i) They have read the document and know the contents thereof;


(ii) If executed in any representative capacity, it was done with full power and authority to do so;


(iii) To the best of their knowledge, information and belief, every statement contained in the document is true and not misleading; and


(iv) The document has been filed in good faith and has not been filed to cause delay.


(e) *Length and form of briefs.* All briefs filed containing more than 15 pages shall include an index and a table of cases and other authorities cited. No brief shall exceed 25 pages in length without prior permission of the Presiding Officer.


(f) All documents which are required to be served upon a party shall be filed concurrently with the Proceedings Clerk. A document shall be filed by delivering it in person or by first-class mail or a more expeditious form of United States mail or by overnight or similar commercial delivery service to Proceedings Clerk, Office of Proceedings, at the Commission's Washington, DC headquarters; or faxing the document to (202) 418-5532; or emailing it to *PROC__Filings@cftc.gov* in accordance with the conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(g) To be timely filed under this part, a document must be delivered in person; mailed by first-class or a more expeditious form of United States mail or by an overnight or similar commercial delivery service; or faxed or emailed to the Proceedings Clerk within the time prescribed for filing.



---

[N] [78 FR 12936, Feb. 26, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 64352, Nov. 18, 2021; 89 FR 71808, Sept. 4, 2024]




