# ยง 126.30   What are the conditions for conducting welding and hotwork?

(a) The facility operator must ensure that all welding or hotwork conducted at the facility meets the requirements of this section. Each operator of a vessel moored to the facility must ensure that all welding or hotwork conducted on the vessel meets the requirements of this section.


(b) The COTP may require an operator of a facility or of a vessel moored at the facility to notify the COTP before conducting welding or hotwork. Regardless of whether or not the COTP required notice, the facility operator must notify the COTP before conducting welding or hotwork on a vessel when containerized dangerous cargo is located within the distances listed in paragraph (f) of this section.


(c) Before conducting welding or hotwork, flammable vapors, liquids, or solids must be completely removed from any container, pipe, or transfer line being worked on.


(d) Before conducting welding or hotwork on tanks, tanks used for storage of flammable or combustible substances must be tested and certified gas free.


(e) All welding and hotwork must be conducted according to NFPA 51B. (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 126.5.)


(f) Welding or hotwork is prohibited during gas freeing operations within 30.5 meters (100 feet) of bulk cargo operations involving flammable or combustible materials, within 30.5 meters (100 feet) of fueling operations, within 30.5 meters (100 feet) of explosives, or within 15.25 meters (50 feet) of other hazardous materials.


(g) If the welding or hotwork is on the boundary of a compartment (*i.e.,* bulkhead, wall, or deck), a fire watch, in addition to that called for in NFPA 51B, must be stationed in the adjoining compartment.


(h) Personnel on fire watch must have no other duties except to watch for the presence of fire and to prevent the development of hazardous conditions.


(i) All safety precautions in relation to purging, inerting, or venting for all hotwork on containers must be followed.


(j) All local laws and ordinances must be followed.


(k) If a fire or other hazard occurs, all cutting, welding, or other hotwork equipment must be shut down.



---

[N] [USCG-1998-4302, 68 FR 55442, Sept. 26, 2003]




