# ยง 227.3   Notice of proposed default determination.

(a) *Consideration of evidence.* Following submission of evidence by the claimant or counterclaimant, as set forth in ยง 227.2, the Board shall review such evidence and shall determine whether it is sufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant under applicable law. As part of its review, the Board shall consider whether the respondent or counterclaim respondent has a meritorious defense. If the Board finds the evidence sufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant, it shall determine the appropriate relief and damages, if any, to be awarded.


(1) If the Board determines that the evidence is sufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant, the Board shall prepare a proposed *default determination.*

(2) If the Board determines that the evidence is insufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant, the Board shall prepare a proposed determination dismissing the proceeding without prejudice and shall provide written notice of such proposed determination to the claimant or counterclaimant. The claimant or counterclaimant may submit a response to the proposed determination within 30 days of the date of the notice of proposed determination. Such response shall follow the procedures set forth in ยง 220.5(b) of this subchapter and be limited to seven pages. After considering any response from the claimant or counterclaimant, the Board shall either maintain its proposed determination and dismiss the proceeding without prejudice or determine that the evidence is sufficient to support a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant and prepare a proposed *default determination.*

(b) *Proposed default determination.* The proposed *default determination* shall include a finding in favor of the claimant or counterclaimant and the damages awarded, if any. The proposed *default determination* shall also include dismissal of any counterclaims asserted by the defaulting respondent.


(c) *Notice to respondent or counterclaim respondent.* The Board shall provide written notice to the respondent or counterclaim respondent of the pendency of the *default determination* and the legal significance of the *default determination,* including any liability for damages, if applicable, as set forth in 17 U.S.C. 1506(u)(2). The notice shall be accompanied by the proposed *default determination* and shall provide the respondent or counterclaim respondent 30 days, beginning on the date of the notice, to submit any evidence or other information in opposition to the proposed *default determination.*

