# § 111.19   National permit.

(a) *General.* A national permit is required for the purpose of transacting customs business throughout the customs territory of the United States as defined in § 101.1 of this chapter.


(b) *Application for a national permit.* An applicant who obtains a passing grade on the examination for an individual broker's license may apply for a national permit. The applicant will exercise responsible supervision and control (as described in § 111.28) over the activities conducted under that national permit. The national permit application may be submitted concurrently with or after the submission of an application for a broker's license. An applicant applying for a national permit on behalf of a partnership, association, or corporation must be a licensed broker employed by the partnership, association, or corporation. An application for a national permit under this paragraph must be submitted in the form of a letter to the processing Center or to a CBP-authorized electronic data interchange (EDI) system. The application must set forth or attach the following:


(1) The applicant's broker license number and date of issuance if available;


(2) If the applicant is applying for a national permit on behalf of a partnership, association, or corporation: the name of the partnership, association, or corporation and the title held by the applicant within the partnership, association, or corporation;


(3) If the applicant is applying for a national permit on behalf of a partnership, association, or corporation: a copy of the documentation issued by a State, or local government that establishes the legal status and reserves the business name of the partnership, association, or corporation;


(4) The address, telephone number, and email address of the office designated by the applicant as the office of record as defined in § 111.1. The office will be noted in the national permit when issued;


(5) The name, telephone number, and email address of the point of contact described in § 111.3(b) to be available to CBP to respond to issues related to the transaction of customs business;


(6) If the applicant is applying for a national permit on behalf of a partnership, association, or corporation: the name, broker license number, office address, telephone number, and email address of each individual broker employed by the partnership, association, or corporation;


(7) A list of all employees together with the specific employee information prescribed in § 111.28 for each employee;


(8) A supervision plan describing how responsible supervision and control will be exercised over the customs business conducted under the national permit, including compliance with § 111.28;


(9) The location where records will be retained (*see* § 111.23);


(10) The name, telephone number, and email address of the knowledgeable employee responsible for broker-wide records maintenance and financial recordkeeping requirements (*see* § 111.21(d)); and


(11) A receipt or other evidence showing that the fees specified in § 111.96(b) and (c) have been paid in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

 


(c) *Fees.* A national permit issued under paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the permit application fee specified in § 111.96(b) and to the customs permit user fee specified in § 111.96(c). The fees must be paid at the processing Center (*see* § 111.1) or through a CBP-authorized EDI system at the time the permit application is submitted.

 


(d) *Action on application; list of permitted brokers.* The processing Center that receives the application will review the application to determine whether the applicant meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. If the processing Center is of the opinion that the national permit should not be issued, the processing Center will submit written reasons for that opinion to the appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, CBP Headquarters, for appropriate instructions on whether to grant or deny the national permit. The appropriate Executive Director, Office of Trade, CBP Headquarters, will notify the applicant if his or her application is denied. CBP will issue a national permit to an applicant who meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. CBP will maintain and make available to the public an alphabetical list of permitted brokers.


(e) *Review of the denial of a national permit*—(1) *By the Executive Assistant Commissioner.* Upon the denial of an application for a national permit under this section, the applicant may file with the Executive Assistant Commissioner, in writing, additional information or arguments in support of the application and may request to appear in person, by telephone, or by other acceptable means of communication. This filing and request must be received by the Executive Assistant Commissioner within sixty (60) calendar days of the denial.


(2) *By the Court of International Trade.* Upon a decision of the Executive Assistant Commissioner affirming the denial of an application for a national permit under this section, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Court of International Trade, provided that the appeal action is commenced within sixty (60) calendar days after the decision date by the Executive Assistant Commissioner.

 


(f) *Responsible supervision and control.* The individual broker who qualifies for the national permit will exercise responsible supervision and control (as described in § 111.28) over the activities conducted under that national permit.



 



---

[N] [T.D. 00-17, 65 FR 13891, Mar. 15, 2000, as amended by CBP Dec. 22-22, 87 FR 63267, Oct. 18, 2022; CBP Dec. 22-21, 87 FR 63315, Oct. 18, 2022; CBP Dec. 23-04, 88 FR 41258, June 23, 2023]




