# § 165.560   Security Zone; Christina River, Newport, DE.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: All waters of the Christina River, from shoreline to shoreline bounded on the east by a line drawn from 39°42.55′ North Latitude (N), 075°35.88′ West Longitude (W), thence southerly to 39°42.50′ N, 075°35.87′ W thence along the Christina River in a westerly direction and bounded by the South James Street Bridge at 39°42.63′ N, 075°36.53′ W. These coordinates are based on North American Datum 83 (NAD83).


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay (COTP) in the enforcement of the security zone.


*Official patrol vessel* means any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, State, or local law enforcement vessel assigned or approved by the COTP.


*USSS protectee* means any person for whom the United States Secret Service (USSS) requests implementation of a security zone in order to supplement protection of said person(s).


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations contained in §  165.33, entry into or movement within this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP, Delaware Bay, or designated representative.


(2) Only vessels or people specifically authorized by the Captain of the Port, Delaware Bay, or designated representative, may enter or remain in the regulated area. To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative on VHF-FM channel 13 or 16. Those in the security zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative. No person may swim upon or below the surface of the water of this security zone unless authorized by the COTP or his designated representative.


(3) Upon being hailed by an official patrol vessel or the designated representative, by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of the vessel shall proceed as directed. Failure to comply with lawful direction may result in expulsion from the regulated area, citation for failure to comply, or both.


(d) *Enforcement.* This security zone will be enforced with actual notice by the U.S. Coast Guard representatives on scene, as well as other methods listed in § 165.7. The Coast Guard will enforce the security zone created by this section only when it is necessary for the protection of a USSS protectee traveling across the route 141 bridge in Newport, Delaware. The U.S. Coast Guard may be additionally assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0131, 86 FR 40152, July 27, 2021]




