# § 488.1205   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Directed plan of correction* means CMS or the temporary manager (with CMS/survey agency (SA) approval) may direct the hospice program to take specific corrective action to achieve specific outcomes within specific timeframes.


*Immediate jeopardy* means a situation in which the provider's noncompliance with one or more requirements of participation has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to a patient(s).


*New admission* means an individual who becomes a patient or is readmitted to the hospice program on or after the effective date of a suspension of payment remedy.


*Per instance* means a single event of noncompliance identified and corrected during a survey, for which the statute authorizes CMS to impose a remedy.


*Plan of correction* means a plan developed by the hospice program and approved by CMS that is the hospice program's written response to survey findings detailing corrective actions to cited deficiencies and specifies the date by which those deficiencies will be corrected.


*Repeat deficiency* means a condition-level deficiency that is cited on the current survey and is substantially the same as or similar to, a finding of a standard-level or condition-level deficiency cited on the most recent previous standard survey or on any intervening survey since the most recent standard survey. Repeated non-compliance is not on the basis that the exact regulation (that is, tag number) for the deficiency was repeated.


*Temporary management* means the temporary appointment by CMS or by a CMS authorized agent, of a substitute manager or administrator. The hospice program's governing body must ensure that the temporary manager has authority to hire, terminate or reassign staff, obligate funds, alter procedures, and manage the hospice program to correct deficiencies identified in the hospice program's operation.




