# ยง 1908.10   Cooperative Agreements.

(a) *Who may make Agreements.* The Assistant Secretary may make a Cooperative Agreement under this part with the Governor of a State or with any State agency designated for that purpose by the Governor.


(b) *Negotiations.* (1) Procedures for negotiations may be obtained through the RA who will negotiate for the Assistant Secretary and make final recommendations on each Agreement to the Assistant Secretary.


(2) States with Plans approved under section 18 of the Act may initiate negotiations in anticipation of the withdrawal from the Plan of Federally funded onsite consultation services to private sector employers.


(3) Renegotiation of existing Agreements funded under this part shall be initiated within 30 days of the effective date of these revisions.


(c) *Contents of Cooperative Agreement.* (1) Any Agreement and subsequent modifications shall be in writing and signed by both parties.


(2) Each Agreement shall provide that the State will conform its operations under the Agreement to:


(i) The requirements contained in this part 1908;


(ii) All related formal directives subsequently issued by the Assistant Secretary implementing this regulation.


(3) Each Agreement shall contain such other explicit written commitments in conformance with the provisions of this part as may be required by the Assistant Secretary. Each Agreement shall also include a budget of the State's anticipated expenditures under the Agreement, in the detail and format required by the Assistant Secretary.


(d) *Location of sample Cooperative Agreement.* A sample Agreement is available for inspection at all Regional Offices of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.


(e) *Action upon requests.* The State will be notified within a reasonable period of time of any decision concerning its request for a Cooperative Agreement. If a request is denied, the State will be informed in writing of the reasons supporting the decision. If a Cooperative Agreement is negotiated, the initial finding will specify the period for the Agreement. Additional funds may be added at a later time provided the activity is satisfactorily carried out and appropriations are available. The State may also be required to amend the Agreement for continued support.


(f) *Termination.* Either party may terminate a Cooperative Agreement under this part upon 30 days' written notice to the other party.



---

[N] [49 FR 25094, June 19, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 24333, June 7, 1989]




