# § 5.154   Rules for geographical designations.

(a) *Geographical designations.* (1) Geographical names for distinctive types of distilled spirits (other than names found by the appropriate TTB officer under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to have become generic) may not be applied to distilled spirits produced in any other place than the particular region indicated by the name, unless:


(i) There appears the word “type” or the word “American” or some other adjective indicating the true place of production, in lettering substantially as conspicuous as such name; and


(ii) The distilled spirits to which the name is applied conform to the distilled spirits of that particular region. The following are examples of distinctive types of distilled spirits with geographical names that have not become generic: Eau de Vie de Dantzig (Danziger Goldwasser), Ojen, Swedish punch. Geographical names for distinctive types of distilled spirits may be used to designate only distilled spirits conforming to the standard of identity, if any, for such type specified in this section, or if no such standard is so specified, then in accordance with the trade understanding of that distinctive type.


(2) Only such geographical names for distilled spirits as the appropriate TTB officer finds have by usage and common knowledge lost their geographical significance to such extent that they have become generic shall be deemed to have become generic. Examples are London dry gin, Geneva (Hollands) gin.


(3) Geographical names that are not names for distinctive types of distilled spirits, and that have not become generic, shall not be applied to distilled spirits produced in any other place than the particular place or region indicated in the name. Examples are Armagnac, Greek brandy, Jamaica rum, Puerto Rico rum, Demerara rum and Andong Soju.


(b) *Products without geographical designations but distinctive of a particular place.* (1) The whiskies of the types specified in paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) and (10) through (14) of § 5.143 are distinctive products of the United States and if produced in a foreign country shall be designated by the applicable designation prescribed in such paragraphs, together with the words “American type” or the words “produced (distilled, blended) in ____”, the blank to be filled in with the name of the foreign country: *Provided,* That the word “bourbon” shall not be used to describe any whisky or whisky-based distilled spirits not produced in the United States. If whisky of any of these types is composed in part of whisky or whiskies produced in a foreign country there shall be stated, on the brand label, the percentage of such whisky and the country of origin thereof.


(2) The name for other distilled spirits which are distinctive products of a particular place or country (such as Habanero), may not be given to the product of any other place or country unless the designation for such product includes the word “type” or an adjective such as “American”, or the like, clearly indicating the true place of production. The provision for place of production shall not apply to designations which by usage and common knowledge have lost their geographical significance to such an extent that the appropriate TTB officer finds they have become generic. Examples of generic designations are Slivovitz, Zubrovka, Aquavit, Arrack, and Kirschwasser.




