# § 670.4   Prohibited acts.

Unless a permit has been issued pursuant to subpart C of this part or unless one of the exceptions stated in §§ 670.5 through 670.9 is applicable, it is unlawful to commit, attempt to commit, or cause to be committed any of the acts described in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) *Taking of native mammal, bird, plants or invertebrates.* It is unlawful for any person to take within Antarctica a native mammal, a native bird, native plants or native invertebrates.


(b) *Engaging in harmful interference.* It is unlawful for any person to engage in harmful interference in Antarctica of native mammals, native birds, native plants or native invertebrates.


(c) *Entry into Antarctic specially designated areas.* It is unlawful for any person to enter or engage in activities within any Antarctic Specially Protected Area.


(d) *Possession, sale, export, and import of native mammals, birds, plants and invertebrates.* It is unlawful for any person to receive, acquire, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, export, import, or have custody, control, or possession of, any native bird, native mammal, native plant or native invertebrate which the person knows, or in the exercise of due care should have known, was taken in violation of the Act.


(e) *Introduction of non-indigenous species into Antarctica.* It is unlawful for any person to introduce into Antarctica any species which is not indigenous to Antarctica or which does not occur there naturally through migrations, as specified in subpart H of this part, except as provided in §§ 670.7 and 670.8.


(f) *Violations of regulations.* It is unlawful for any person to violate the regulations set forth in this part.


(g) *Violation of permit conditions.* It is unlawful for any person to violate any term or condition of any permit issued under subpart C of this part.



---

[N] [63 FR 50164, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 86 FR 27987, May 25, 2021]




