# § 390.23   Automatic relief from regulations.

(a) *Presidential declaration of emergency.* Parts 390 through 399 of this chapter, or any section thereof, shall not apply to any motor carrier or driver operating a commercial motor vehicle so long as the motor carrier or driver is providing direct assistance during an emergency declared by the President of the United States pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 5191(b) during the emergency period or 30 days from the date of the initial declaration of the emergency, whichever is less.


(b) *Regional declarations of emergency.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, §§ 395.3 and 395.5 of this chapter shall not apply to a motor carrier or driver operating a commercial motor vehicle so long as the motor carrier or driver is providing direct assistance during an emergency declared by the Governor of a State, their authorized representative, or FMCSA during the emergency period or 14 days from the date of the initial declaration of emergency, whichever is less.


(1) *Residential heating fuel shortages.* Parts 390 through 399 of this chapter, or any section thereof, shall not apply to a motor carrier or driver operating a commercial motor vehicle to provide residential heating fuel in the geographic area designated in an emergency declaration issued by the Governor of a State. If the Governor of a State declares an emergency caused by a shortage of residential heating fuel and, at the conclusion of the 30-day period immediately following the declaration, determines that the emergency shortage has not ended, and extends the declaration of an emergency for up to two additional 30-day periods, this regulatory relief shall remain in effect up to the end of such additional periods. The total length of the emergency shall not exceed 90 days.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Local emergencies.* Sections 395.3 and 395.5 of this chapter shall not apply to a motor carrier or driver operating a commercial motor vehicle so long as the motor carrier or driver is providing direct assistance during an emergency declared by a Federal, State, or local government official having authority to declare an emergency for the period of such assistance or 5 days from the date of the initial declaration of emergency, whichever is less.


(d) *Tow trucks responding to emergencies.* Section 395.3 of this chapter shall not apply to a motor carrier or driver operating a commercial motor vehicle so long as the motor carrier or driver is providing direct assistance during an emergency when a request has been made by a Federal, State, or local police officer for tow trucks to move wrecked or disabled motor vehicles. This regulatory relief shall not exceed the length of the motor carrier's or driver's direct assistance in providing emergency relief or 24 hours from the time of the initial request for assistance by the Federal, State, or local police officer, whichever is less.


(e) *Termination of regulatory relief.* (1) Upon termination of direct assistance to the emergency relief effort, the motor carrier or driver is subject to all previously exempted sections with the following exception: A driver may return empty to the motor carrier's terminal or the driver's normal work reporting location without complying with the previously exempted sections. However, a driver who informs the motor carrier that he or she needs immediate rest must be permitted at least 10 consecutive hours off duty before the driver is required to return to such terminal or location. Having returned to the terminal or other location, the driver must be relieved of all duty and responsibilities.


(2) Direct assistance terminates when a driver or commercial motor vehicle is used in interstate commerce to transport cargo not destined for the emergency relief effort, or when the motor carrier dispatches such driver or commercial motor vehicle to another location to begin operations in commerce.


(3) When the driver has been relieved of all duty and responsibilities upon termination of direct assistance to an emergency relief effort, no motor carrier shall permit or require any driver used by it to drive, nor shall any such driver drive in commerce, until the driver has met the requirements of §§ 395.3(a) and (c) and 395.5(a) of this chapter.



---

[N] [88 FR 70908, Oct. 13, 2023]




