# § 26.66   Bond, TTB Form 5110.50—Distilled spirits.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, if any person intends to ship to the United States, distilled spirits products of Puerto Rican manufacture from bonded storage in Puerto Rico on computation, but before payment, of the tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. 7652(a), equal to the tax imposed in the United States by 26 U.S.C. 5001(a)(1), the person must, before making any such shipment, furnish a bond. The person must furnish a bond on TTB Form 5110.50 for each premises from which shipment will be made, to secure payment of such tax, at the time and in the manner prescribed in this subpart, on all distilled spirits products shipped. The bond must be executed in a penal sum not less than the amount of unpaid tax which, at any one time, is chargeable against the bond. The penal sum of such bond must not exceed $1,000,000, but in no case will the penal sum be less than $1,000.


(b) *Blanket bond.* Any person who is the proprietor of more than one premises in Puerto Rico from which shipment of spirits to the United States will be made, may, in lieu of furnishing two or more separate bonds on TTB Form 5110.50 as required by paragraph (a) of this section, furnish a blanket bond on TTB Form 5110.50. The penal sum of such blanket bond shall be equal to the sum of the penal sums of all the bonds in lieu of which it is given. Such blanket bond on TTB Form 5110.50 shall show each bonded warehouse and/or bonded processing room and/or rectifying plant to be covered by the bond, and the part of the total penal sum (computed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section) to be allocated to each of the designated premises. If the penal sum of the bond allocated to a designated premises is in an amount less than the maximum prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, transactions at such premises shall not exceed the quantity permissible, as reflected by the penal sum allocated in the bond to such premises. Such blanket bond shall contain the terms and conditions of the bonds in lieu of which it is given and shall be conditioned that the total amount of the bond shall be available for satisfaction of any liability incurred under the terms and conditions of such bond.


(c) *Bonds covering spirits for nonindustrial use and industrial use*—(1) *Nonindustrial use.* A person who pays tax on a deferred basis under § 26.112 is not required to furnish a bond under this section to cover shipments of distilled spirits for nonindustrial use during any portion of a calendar year for which the person is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 26.112(b)(2) or (b)(3). For purposes of the preceding sentence, a person is considered to be paying tax on a deferred basis even if the person does not pay tax during every return period as long as the person intends to pay tax in a future period. TTB may require a person who has defaulted on any payment to prepay tax as provided in § 26.112(e).


(2) *Industrial use.* A person is required to furnish a bond under this section to cover shipments of distilled spirits for industrial use even if the person pays tax on a deferred basis under § 26.112 and is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 26.112(b)(2) or (b)(3). For bond requirements governing industrial spirits and other products brought into the United States without incurring tax liability, see § 26.36.


(3) *Nonindustrial use and industrial use defined.* The nonindustrial and industrial uses of distilled spirits are defined in subpart D of part 1 of this chapter.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-62, 44 FR 71710, Dec. 11, 1979, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1130, Jan. 4, 2017]




