# § 655.31   What general selection criteria does the Secretary use?

(a) *Plan of operation.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the plan of operation for the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) High quality in the design of the project;


(ii) An effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the project;


(iii) A clear description of how the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program;


(iv) The way the applicant plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; and


(v) A clear description of how the applicant will provide equal access and treatment for eligible project participants who are members of groups that have been traditionally underrepresented, such as—


(A) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups;


(B) Women; and


(C) Handicapped persons.


(b) *Quality of key personnel.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used);


(ii) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project. In the case of faculty, the qualifications of the faculty and the degree to which that faculty is directly involved in the actual teaching and supervision of students; and


(iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section plans to commit to the project; and


(iv) The extent to which the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, encourages applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that have been traditionally underrepresented, such as members of racial or ethnic minority groups, women, handicapped persons, and the elderly.


(3) To determine the qualifications of a person, the Secretary considers evidence of past experience and training, in fields related to the objectives of the project, as well as other information that the applicant provides.


(c) *Budget and cost effectiveness.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the project has an adequate budget and is cost effective.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) Facilities (including but not limited to language laboratories, museums, and libraries) that the applicant plans to use are adequate; and




(ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project.


(d) *Evaluation plan.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the evaluation plan for the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows methods of evaluation that are appropriate for the project and, to the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable.


(e) *Adequacy of resources.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the applicant plans to devote adequate resources to the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) Facilities (including but not limited to language laboratories, museums, and libraries) that the applicant plans to use are adequate; and


(ii) The equipment and supplies that the applicant plans to use are adequate.



---

[N] [47 FR 14116, Apr. 1, 1982, as amended at 89 FR 68758, Aug. 27, 2024]






