# ยง 58.220   Drying systems.

(a) *Spray dryers.* Spray dryers shall be of a continuous discharge type and all product contact surfaces shall be of stainless steel or other equally corrosion resistant material. All joints and seams in the product contact surfaces shall be welded and ground smooth. All dryers shall be constructed so as to facilitate ease in cleaning and inspection. Sight glasses or ports of sufficient size shall be located at strategic positions. Dryers shall be equipped with suitable air intake filters. The filter system shall comply with the applicable requirements of the 3-A Accepted Practices for Milk and Milk Products Spray Drying Systems. The filtering system shall be cleaned or component parts replaced as often as necessary to maintain a clean and adequate air supply. In gas fired dryers, precautions should be taken to assure complete combustion. Air shall be drawn into the dryer from sources free from objectionable odors and smoke, dust or dirt. New systems, replacement systems, or portions of systems replaced shall comply with the requirements of the 3-A Accepted Practices for Milk and Milk Products Spray Drying Systems. 


(b) *Roller dryers.* (1) The drums of a roller dryer shall be smooth, readily cleanable and free of pits and rust. The knives shall be maintained in such condition so as not to cause scoring of the drums. 


(2) The end boards shall have an impervious surface and be readily cleanable. They shall be provided with a means of adjustment to prevent leakage and accumulation of milk solids. The stack, hood, the drip pan inside of the hood and related shields shall be constructed of stainless steel and be readily cleanable. The lower edge of the hood shall be constructed so as to prevent condensate from entering the product zone. The hood shall be properly located and the stack of adequate capacity to remove the vapors. The stack shall be closed when the dryer is not in operation. The augers shall be stainless steel or properly plated, and readily cleanable. The auger troughs and related shields shall be of stainless steel and be readily cleanable. All air entering the dryer room shall be filtered to eliminate dust and dirt. The filter system shall consist of filtering media or device that will effectively, and in accordance with good commercial practices, prevent the entrance of foreign substances into the drying room. The filtering system shall be cleaned or component parts replaced as often as necessary to maintain a clean and adequate air supply. All dryer adjustments shall be made and the dryer operating normally before food grade product is collected from the dryer. 


(c) *Other drying systems.* These systems shall be constructed following the applicable principles of the 3-A Accepted Practices for Milk and Milk Products Spray Drying Systems. 




