# § 168.120   Glucose sirup.

(a) Glucose sirup is the purified, concentrated, aqueous solution of nutritive saccharides obtained from edible starch.


(b) The food shall meet the following specifications:


(1) The total solids content is not less than 70.0 percent mass/mass (m/m), and the reducing sugar content (dextrose equivalent), expressed as D-glucose, is not less than 20.0 percent m/m calculated on a dry basis.


(2) The sulfated ash content is not more than 1.0 percent m/m (calculated on a dry basis), and the sulfur dioxide content is not more than 40 mg/kg. 


(c) The name of the food is “Glucose sirup”. When the food is derived from a specific type of starch, the name may alternatively be “______ sirup”, the blank to be filled in with the name of the starch. For example, “Corn sirup”, “Wheat sirup”, “Tapioca sirup”. When the starch is derived from sorghum grain, the alternative name of the food is “Sorghum grain sirup”. The word “sirup” may also be spelled “syrup”.


(d) For purposes of this section, the methods of analysis to be used to determine if the food meets the specifications of paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section are the following sections in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Total solids content, sections 31.208-31.209.


(2) Reducing sugar content, section 31.220(a).


(3) Sulfated ash content, section 31.216.


(4) Sulfur dioxide content, sections 20.106-20.111.



---

[N] [42 FR 14479, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 11834, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10103, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24896, June 12, 1989; 63 FR 14035, Mar. 24, 1998]




