# ยง 49.157   Public participation requirements.

This section applies to the issuance of minor source permits and synthetic minor source permits, the initial issuance of general permits and coverage of a particular source under a general permit.


(a) *What permit information will be publicly available?* With the exception of any confidential information as defined in part 2, subpart B of this chapter, the reviewing authority must make available for public inspection the documents listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section. The reviewing authority must make such information available for public inspection at the appropriate EPA Regional Office and in at least one location in the area affected by the source, such as the Tribal environmental office or a local library.


(1) All information submitted as part of your application for a permit.


(2) Any additional information requested by the reviewing authority.


(3) The reviewing authority's analysis of the application and any additional information you submitted, including (for preconstruction permits and the initial issuance of general permits) the control technology review.


(4) For minor source permits and the initial issuance of general permits, the reviewing authority's analysis of the effect of the construction of the minor source or modification on ambient air quality.


(5) For coverage of a particular source under a general permit, the reviewing authority's analysis of whether your particular emissions unit or source is within the category of emissions units or sources to which the general permit applies, including whether your emissions unit or source meets any criteria to be eligible for coverage under the general permit.


(6) A copy of the draft permit or the decision to deny the permit with the justification for denial.


(b) *How will the public be notified and participate?* (1) Before issuing a permit under this program, the reviewing authority must prepare a draft permit and must provide adequate public notice to ensure that the affected community and the general public have reasonable access to the application and draft permit information, as set out in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The public notice must provide an opportunity for public comment and notice of a public hearing, if any, on the draft permit.


(i) The reviewing authority must mail a copy of the notice to you, the appropriate Indian governing body and the Tribal, state and local air pollution authorities having jurisdiction adjacent to the area of Indian country potentially impacted by the air pollution source.


(ii) Depending on such factors as the nature and size of your source, local air quality considerations and the characteristics of the population in the affected area (e.g., subsistence hunting and fishing or other seasonal cultural practices), the reviewing authority must use appropriate means of notification, such as those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) The reviewing authority may mail or e-mail a copy of the notice to persons on a mailing list developed by the reviewing authority consisting of those persons who have requested to be placed on such a mailing list.


(B) The reviewing authority may post the notice on its Web site.


(C) The reviewing authority may publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the source. Where possible, the notice may also be published in a Tribal newspaper or newsletter.


(D) The reviewing authority may provide copies of the notice for posting at one or more locations in the area affected by the source, such as post offices, trading posts, libraries, Tribal environmental offices, community centers or other gathering places in the community.


(E) The reviewing authority may employ other means of notification as appropriate.


(2) The notice required pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the following information at a minimum:


(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.


(ii) The name and address of the reviewing authority processing the permit action;


(iii) For minor source permits, the initial issuance of general permits and coverage of a particular source under a general permit, the regulated NSR pollutants to be emitted, the affected emissions units and the emission limitations for each affected emissions unit;


(iv) For minor source permits, the initial issuance of general permits and coverage of a particular source under a general permit, the emissions change involved in the permit action;


(v) For synthetic minor source permits, a description of the proposed limitation and its effect on the potential to emit of the source;


(vi) Instructions for requesting a public hearing;


(vii) The name, address and telephone number of a contact person in the reviewing authority's office from whom additional information may be obtained;


(viii) Locations and times of availability of the information (listed in paragraph (a) of this section) for public inspection and


(ix) A statement that any person may submit written comments, a written request for a public hearing or both, on the draft permit action. The reviewing authority must provide a period of at least 30 days from the date of the public notice for comments and for requests for a public hearing.


(c) *How will the public comment and will there be a public hearing?* (1) Any person may submit written comments on the draft permit and may request a public hearing. These comments must raise any reasonably ascertainable issue with supporting arguments by the close of the public comment period (including any public hearing). The reviewing authority must consider all comments in making the final decision. The reviewing authority must keep a record of the commenters and of the issues raised during the public participation process and such records must be available to the public.


(2) The reviewing authority must extend the public comment period under paragraph (b) of this section to the close of any public hearing under this section. The hearing officer may also extend the comment period by so stating at the hearing.


(3) A request for a public hearing must be in writing and must state the nature of the issues proposed to be raised at the hearing.


(4) The reviewing authority must hold a hearing whenever there is, on the basis of requests, a significant degree of public interest in a draft permit. The reviewing authority may also hold a public hearing at its discretion, whenever, for instance, such a hearing might clarify one or more issues involved in the permit decision. The reviewing authority must provide notice of any public hearing at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing. Public notice of the hearing may be concurrent with that of the draft permit and the two notices may be combined. Reasonable limits may be set upon the time allowed for oral statements at the hearing.


(5) The reviewing authority must make a tape recording or written transcript of any hearing available to the public.




