# ยง 49.12   Swap data repository recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *General requirement.* A swap data repository shall keep full, complete, and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to the business of the swap data repository, including, but not limited to, all SDR information and all SDR data that is reported to the swap data repository pursuant to this chapter.


(b) *Maintenance of records.* A swap data repository shall maintain all records required to be kept by this section in accordance with this paragraph (b).


(1) A swap data repository shall maintain all SDR information, including, but not limited to, all documents, policies, and procedures required by the Act and the Commission's regulations, correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and other such records made or received by the swap data repository in the course of its business. All SDR information shall be maintained in accordance with ยง 1.31 of this chapter.


(2) A swap data repository shall maintain all SDR data and timestamps reported to or created by the swap data repository pursuant to this chapter, and all messages related to such reporting, throughout the existence of the swap that is the subject of the SDR data and for five years following final termination of the swap, during which time the records shall be readily accessible by the swap data repository and available to the Commission via real-time electronic access, and for a period of at least ten additional years in archival storage from which such records are retrievable by the swap data repository within three business days.


(c) *Records of data errors and omissions.* A swap data repository shall create and maintain records of data validation errors and SDR data reporting errors and omissions in accordance with this paragraph (c).


(1) A swap data repository shall create and maintain an accurate record of all reported SDR data that fails to satisfy the swap data repository's data validation procedures including, but not limited to, all SDR data reported to the swap data repository that fails to satisfy the data validation procedures, all data validation errors, and all related messages and timestamps. A swap data repository shall make these records available to the Commission on request.


(2) A swap data repository shall create and maintain an accurate record of all SDR data errors and omissions reported to the swap data repository and all corrections disseminated by the swap data repository pursuant to parts 43, 45, and 46 of this chapter and this part. A swap data repository shall make these records available to the Commission on request.


(d) *Availability of records.* All records required to be kept pursuant to this part shall be open to inspection upon request by any representative of the Commission or the United States Department of Justice in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1.31 of this chapter. A swap data repository required to keep, create, or maintain records pursuant to this section shall provide such records in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1.31 of this chapter, unless otherwise provided in this part.


(e) A swap data repository shall establish policies and procedures to calculate positions for position limits and any other purpose as required by the Commission, for all persons with swaps that have not expired maintained by the swap data repository.



---

[N] [85 FR 75658, Nov. 25, 2020]




