# ยง 8.2   Persons who may practice.

(a) *Attorneys.* Any attorney who is not currently under suspension or disbarment from practice before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as an attorney and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.


(b) *Certified public accountants.* Any certified public accountant who is not currently under suspension or disbarment before the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, may practice before the Bureau upon filing a written declaration with the Bureau, that he or she is currently qualified as a certified public accountant and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.


(c) *Enrollment practitioners.* Any person enrolled as a practitioner under the provisions of subpart C of this part and who is not under suspension or disbarment from enrollment may practice before the Bureau.


(d) *Limited practitioners.* Any person qualified for limited practice without enrollment under the provisions of ยง 8.29 may practice before the Bureau.


(e) *Restrictions on Government officers and employees.* Any officer or employee of the United States in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Government, or in any agency of the United States, including the District of Columbia, who is otherwise eligible to practice under the provisions of this part, may represent parties before the Bureau when doing so in the conduct of his or her official duties. A Government officer or employee may not otherwise practice before the Bureau except that, subject to the requirements of 18 U.S.C. 205, he or she may represent a member of his or her immediate family or a person or estate for which he or she serves as guardian, executor, administrator, trustee or other personal fiduciary. Member of Congress or Resident Commissioners (elect or serving) may not practice before the Bureau in connection with any matter for which they directly or indirectly seek any compensation.


(f) *Restrictions on State officers and employees.* No officer or employee of any State, or subdivision thereof, whose official responsibilities require him or her to pass upon, investigate, or deal with any State law or regulation concerning alcohol, tobacco, firearms, explosives matters or wagering, may practice before the Bureau if his or her official responsibility may disclose pertinent facts or information relating to matters administered by the Bureau.


(g) *Customhouse brokers.* Customhouse brokers, licensed by the Commissioner of Customs according to 19 CFR part 111, may represent a party for whom they have acted as a customhouse broker before the Bureau with respect to matters relating to the importation or exportation of merchandise under customs or intenal revenue laws.



---

[N] [42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]




