# § 26.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular and vice versa, and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.26, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 26, Liquors and Articles from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.


*Article.* Any preparation unfit for beverage use, made with or containing:


(1) Wine or beer;


(2) Distilled spirits or industrial spirits; or


(3) Denatured spirits when such preparation is not manufactured under the provisions of this chapter.


*Bank.* Any commercial bank.


*Banking day.* Any day during which a bank is open to the public for carrying on substantially all its banking functions.


*Beer.* Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages (including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing one-half of 1 percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed, or produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor.


*Bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant.* The bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant as described in part 19 of this chapter. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the distilled spirits plant proprietor, as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 19.151(d) of this chapter, has not provided a bond for the premises.


*Bonded wine cellar.* Premises established under part 24 of this chapter.


*Bottler.* Any person required to hold a basic permit as a bottler under 27 U.S.C. 203(b)(1).


*Brewery.* The land and buildings described in the brewer's notice, TTB Form 5130.10, where beer is to be produced and packaged.


*Bulk container.* When used in the context of distilled spirits, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than one wine gallon. When used in the context of wine, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than 60 liters. When used in the context of beer, the term “bulk container” means any container having a capacity larger than one barrel of 31 gallons.


*Bulk distilled spirits.* The term “bulk distilled spirits” means distilled spirits in a container having a capacity in excess of 1 gallon.


*Bureau of Alcoholic Beverage Taxes.* Bureau of Alcoholic Beverage Taxes of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


*Business day.* Any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. (The term legal holiday includes all holidays in the District of Columbia and all legal holidays in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.)


*Calendar quarter and quarterly.* These terms refer to the three-month periods ending on March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31.


*Commercial bank.* A bank, whether or not a member of the Federal Reserve System, which has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire. The “FRCS” or “Fedwire” is a communications network that allows Federal Reserve System member banks to effect a transfer of funds for their customers (or other commercial banks) to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Denatured spirits.* Industrial spirits denatured in accordance with approved formulas in distilled spirits plants established and operated under the provisions of this chapter relating to the establishment and operation of plants qualified to denature spirits in the United States or, in respect of a product of the Virgin Islands, shall also mean spirits denatured in accordance with approved formulas in plants established under the provisions of the Virgin Islands regulations and shall include, unless otherwise limited, both completely and specially denatured spirits.


*Director of the service center.* A director of an internal revenue service center.


*Distilled spirits or spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine, in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced), but shall not include industrial spirits as defined in this part except when used in reference to such spirits which would be subject to tax if brought into the United States.


*District director.* A district director of internal revenue.


*District director of customs.* The district director of customs at a headquarters port of the district (except the district of New York, N.Y.); the area directors of customs in the district of New York, N.Y.; and the port director at a port not designated as a headquarters port.


*Effective tax rate.* The net tax rate after reduction for any credit allowable under 26 U.S.C. 5010 for wine and flavor content at which the tax imposed on distilled spirits by 26 U.S.C. 7652 is paid or determined.


*Electronic fund transfer or EFT.* Any transfer of funds effected by a proprietor's commercial bank, either directly or through a correspondent banking relationship, via the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*Eligible article.* Any medicine, medicinal preparation, food product, flavor, flavoring extract or perfume which contains distilled spirits, is unfit for beverage purposes, and has been or will be brought into the United States from Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 7652(g).


*Eligible flavor.* A flavor which:


(1) Is of a type that is eligible for drawback of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5114,


(2) Was not manufactured on the premises of a distilled spirits plant, and


(3) Was not subjected to distillation on distilled spirits plant premises such that the flavor does not remain in the finished product.


*Eligible wine.* Wine on which tax would be imposed by paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of 26 U.S.C. 5041(b) but for its removal to distilled spirits plant premises and which has not been subject to distillation at a distilled spirits plant after receipt in bond.


*Executed under penalties of perjury.* Signed with the prescribed declaration under the penalties of perjury as provided on or with respect to the return, claim, form, or other document, or where no form of declaration is prescribed, with the declaration: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that this ________ (insert type of document, such as statement, report, certificate, application, claim, or other document), including the documents submitted in support thereof, has been examined by me and, to the best of my knowledge and belief, is true, correct, and complete.”


*Fiscal year.* The period which begins October 1 and ends on the following September 30.


*Gallon or wine gallon.* The liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches.


*Importer.* Any person who brings distilled spirits, wines, or beer into the United States from the Virgin Islands.


*Industrial spirits.* As to products of Puerto Rico, distilled spirits produced and warehoused at and withdrawn from distilled spirits plants established and operated under the provisions of this chapter relating to the establishment of such plants and the production, bonded warehousing, and withdrawal from bond of distilled spirits in the United States, or as to products of the Virgin Islands, distilled spirits produced, warehoused, and withdrawn under Virgin Islands regulations.


*IRC registry number.* The number assigned by TTB to each distilled spirits plant, bonded wine cellar, taxpaid wine bottling house, bonded wine warehouse, or brewery upon approval of an application made pursuant to Internal Revenue Code of 1986 requirements (26 U.S.C. 5171, 5351-5353, or 5401).


*Kind.* As applied to spirits, kind shall mean class and type as prescribed in 27 CFR part 5. As applied to wines, kind shall mean the classes and types of wines as prescribed in 27 CFR part 4.


*Liquor bottle.* A bottle made of glass or earthenware, or of other suitable material approved by the Food and Drug Administration, which has been designed or is intended for use as a container for distilled spirits for sale for beverage purposes and which has been determined by the appropriate TTB officer to adequately protect the revenue.


*Liquors.* Industrial spirits, distilled spirits, liqueurs, cordials and similar compounds, wines, and beer or any alcoholic preparation fit for beverage use.


*Natural wine.* The product of the juice or must of sound, ripe grapes or other sound, ripe fruit (including berries) made with any proper cellar treatment and containing not more than 21 percent by weight (21 degrees Brix dealcoholized wine) of total solids. For purposes of this definition, “proper cellar treatment” means a production practice or procedure authorized for natural wine by part 24 of this chapter, or, in the case of natural wine produced and imported subject to an international agreement or treaty, those practices and procedures acceptable to the United States under that agreement or treaty.


*Permit.* A formal written authorization of the Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico.


*Person.* An individual, a trust, an estate, a partnership, an association, a company, or a corporation.


*Proof gallon.* A gallon of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Proof liter.* A liter of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Rectifier.* Any person required to hold a rectifier's basic permit under 27 U.S.C. 203(b)(1).


*Revenue Agent.* Any duly authorized Commonwealth Internal Revenue Agent of the Department of the Treasury of Puerto Rico.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico.


*Secretary or his delegate.* The Secretary or any officer or employee of the Department of the Treasury of Puerto Rico duly authorized by the Secretary to perform the function mentioned or described in this part. 


*Taxpaid.* As used in this part with respect to liquors or articles of Puerto Rican manufacture, includes liquors or articles on which the tax was computed but with respect to which payment was deferred under the provisions of subpart E of this part.


*Treasury Account.* The Department of the Treasury's General Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*United States.* The States and the District of Columbia.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.


*Virgin Islands regulations.* Regulations adopted or issued by the Governor of the Virgin Islands, or by the Governor's duly authorized agents, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States or the Secretary's delegate, under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 5314, as amended, and § 26.201a.


*Wine.* Still wine, vermouth, or other aperitif wine, imitation, substandard, or artificial wine, compounds designated as wine, flavored, rectified, or sweetened wine, champagne or sparkling wine, and artificially carbonated wine, containing not over 24 percent of alcohol by volume. Wines containing more than 24 percent of alcohol by volume are classed and taxed as distilled spirits.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13551, Mar. 31, 1978]


