# § 146.7   Zone changes.

(a) *Alteration of an activated area.* An operator shall make written application to the port director for approval of an alteration of an activated area, including an alteration resulting from a zone boundary modification. The application must be accompanied by the supporting document requirements specified in § 146.6, as applicable. The port director may review the security, suitability, and fitness of the area, and shall reply to the applicant as provided for in § 146.6.


(b) *Deactivation or reactivation.* A grantee, or an operator with the concurrence of a grantee, shall make written application to the port director for deactivation of a zone site, indicating by layout or blueprint the exact site to be deactivated. The port director shall not approve the application unless all merchandise in the site in zone status (other than domestic status) has been removed at the risk and expense of the operator. The port director may require an accounting of all merchandise in a zone as a condition of approving the deactivation. A zone may be reactivated using the above procedure if a sufficient bond is on file under § 146.6(d). 


(c) *Suspension of activated site.* When approval of an activated status has been suspended through the procedure in subpart G, the port director may require all goods in that area in zone status (other than domestic status) to be transferred to another zone, a bonded warehouse, or other location where they may lawfully be stored, if the port director considers that transfer advisable to protect the revenue or administer any Federal law or regulation. 


(d) *New bond.* The port director may require an operator to furnish, on 10 days notice, a new Foreign Trade Zone Operator's Bond on Customs Form 301. If the operator fails to furnish the new bond, no more merchandise will be received in the zone in zone status. Merchandise in zone status (other than domestic status) will be removed at the risk and expense of the operator. A new bond may be required if (1) the activated zone area is substantially altered; (2) the character of merchandise admitted to the zone or operations performed in the zone are substantially changed; (3) the existing bond lacks good and sufficient surety; or (4) for any other reason that substantially affects the liability of the operator under the bond. Although a new bond may not be required, the operator shall obtain the consent of the surety to any material alteration in the boundaries of the zone.


(e) *New operator.* A grantee of an activated zone site shall make written application to the port director for approval of a new operator, submitting with the application a certification by the new operator that the inventory control and recordkeeping system meets the requirements of subpart B, and a copy of the system procedures manual if different from the previous operator's manual. The port director may order an inquiry into the qualifications, character, and experience of the operator and its principal officers.


(f) The bond in § 146.6 shall be submitted by the operator before the operating agreement may become effective in respect to merchandise in zone status. The port director shall promptly notify the grantee, in writing, of the approval or disapproval of the application. 


(g) *List of officers, employees, and other persons.* The port director may make a written demand upon the operator to submit, within 30 days after the date of the demand, a written list of the names, addresses, social security numbers, and dates and places of birth of officers and persons having a direct or indirect financial interest in the operator, and of persons employed in the carriage, receipt or delivery of merchandise in zone status, whether employed by the zone operator or a zone user. If a list was previously furnished, the port director may make a written demand for the same information in respect to new persons employed in the carriage, receipt, or delivery of zone status merchandise within 10 days after such employment. The list need not include employees of common or contract carriers transporting goods to or from the zone. 



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 95-99, 60 FR 62733, Dec. 7, 1995]




