# ยง 308.4   Disclosure of records.

The agency will not disclose any personal information from systems of records it maintains to any individual other than the individual to whom the record pertains, or to another agency, without the express written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains, or his or her agent or attorney, except in the following instances:


(a) To officers or employees of the Peace Corps having a need for such record in the official performance of their duties.


(b) When required under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).


(c) For routine uses as published in the _Federal Register._

(d) To the Bureau of the Census for uses pursuant to title 13.


(e) To an individual or agency having a proper need for such record for statistical research provided that such record is transmitted in a form which is not individually identifiable and that an appropriate written statement is obtained from the person to whom the record is transmitted stating the purpose for the request and a certification under oath that the records will be used only for statistical purposes.


(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record of historical value under rules and regulations of the Archives or to the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine if it has such value.


(g) To an agency or instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within the control of the United States for civil or criminal law enforcement activities, if the activity is authorized by law, and the head of any such agency or instrumentality has made a written request for such records specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought. Such a record may also be disclosed by the agency to the law enforcement agency on its own initiative in situations in which criminal conduct is suspected: *Provided,* That such disclosure has been established as a routine use or in situations in which the misconduct is directly related to the purpose for which the record is maintained. 


(h) In emergency situations upon a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual provided that after such disclosure, notification of such disclosure must be promptly sent to the last known address of the individual to whom the record pertains.


(i) To either House of Congress or to a subcommittee or committee (joint or of either house) to the extent the subject matter falls within their jurisdiction.


(j) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office.


(k) Pursuant to an order by the presiding judge of a court of competent jurisdiction. If any record is disclosed under such compulsory legal process and subsequently made public by the court which issued it, the agency must make a reasonable effort to notify the individual to whom the record pertains of such disclosure.


(l) To consumer reporting agencies as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3) in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, and under contracts for collection services as authorized in 31 U.S.C. 3718.




