# § 702.206   Revised business plans (RBP) for new credit unions.

(a) *Schedule for filing*—(1) *Generally.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a new credit union classified moderately capitalized or lower must file a written revised business plan (RBP) with the appropriate Regional Director and, if state-chartered, with the appropriate state official, within 30 calendar days of either:


(i) The last of the calendar month following the end of the calendar quarter that the credit union's net worth ratio has not increased consistent with the-present approved business plan;


(ii) The effective date of classification as less than adequately capitalized if the credit union has no then-present approved business plan; or


(iii) The effective date of classification as less than adequately capitalized if the credit union has increased the total amount of member business loans in violation of § 702.204(a)(3).


(2) *Exception.* The NCUA Board may notify the credit union in writing that its RBP is to be filed within a different period or that it is not necessary to file an RBP.


(3) *Failure to timely file plan.* When a new credit union fails to file an RBP as provided under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, the NCUA Board shall promptly notify the credit union that it has failed to file an RBP and that it has 15 calendar days from receipt of that notice within which to do so.


(b) *Contents of revised business plan.* A new credit union's RBP must, at a minimum—


(1) Address changes, since the new credit union's current business plan was approved, in any of the business plan elements required for charter approval under chapter 1, section IV.D. of appendix B to part 701 of this chapter, or for state-chartered credit unions under applicable state law;


(2) Establish a timetable of quarterly targets for net worth during each year in which the RBP is in effect so that the credit union becomes adequately capitalized by the time it no longer qualifies as “new” per § 702.201;


(3) Specify the projected amount of earnings of net worth increases as provided under § 702.204(a)(1) or 702.205(a)(1);


(4) Explain how the new credit union will comply with the mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions imposed on it by the NCUA Board under this subpart;


(5) Specify the types and levels of activities in which the new credit union will engage;


(6) In the case of a new credit union reclassified to a lower category under § 702.202(d), specify the steps the credit union will take to correct the unsafe or unsound condition or practice; and


(7) Include such other information as the NCUA Board may require.


(c) *Criteria for approval.* The NCUA Board shall not approve a new credit union's RBP unless it—


(1) Addresses the items enumerated in paragraph (b) of this section;


(2) Is based on realistic assumptions, and is likely to succeed in building the credit union's net worth; and


(3) Would not unreasonably increase the credit union's exposure to risk (including credit risk, interest-rate risk, and other types of risk).


(d) *Review of revised business plan*—(1) *Notice of decision.* Within 30 calendar days after receiving an RBP under this section, the NCUA Board shall notify the credit union in writing whether its RBP is approved, and shall provide reasons for its decision in the event of disapproval. The NCUA Board may extend the time within which notice of its decision shall be provided.


(2) *Delayed decision.* If no decision is made within the time prescribed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the RBP is deemed approved.


(3) *Consultation with state officials.* When evaluating an RBP submitted by a federally insured state-chartered new credit union (whether an original, new or additional RBP), the NCUA Board shall seek and consider the views of the appropriate state official, and provide prompt notice of its decision to the appropriate state official.


(e) *Plan not approved*—(1) *Submission of new revised plan.* If an RBP is rejected by the NCUA Board, the new credit union shall submit a new RBP within 30 calendar days of receiving notice of disapproval of its initial RBP, unless it is notified in writing by the NCUA Board that the new RBP is to be filed within a different period.


(2) *Notice of decision on revised plan.* Within 30 calendar days after receiving an RBP under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the NCUA Board shall notify the credit union in writing whether the new RBP is approved. The Board may extend the time within which notice of its decision shall be provided.


(3) *Submission of multiple unapproved RBPs.* The submission of more than two RBPs that are not approved is considered an unsafe and unsound condition and may subject the credit union to administrative enforcement action pursuant to section 206 of the FCUA, 12 U.S.C. 1786 and 1790d.


(f) *Amendment of plan.* A credit union that has filed an approved RBP may, after prior written notice to and approval by the NCUA Board, amend it to reflect a change in circumstance. Pending approval of an amended RBP, the new credit union shall implement its existing RBP as originally approved.


(g) *Publication.* An RBP need not be published to be enforceable because publication would be contrary to the public interest.



---

[N] [80 FR 66706, Oct. 29, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 11073, Feb. 23, 2021]




