# ยง 1147.106   Reimbursement claims.

(a) In order for the eligible dairy organization to receive reimbursement pursuant to ยง 1147.108, the eligible partnership must submit a Reimbursement Claim Form and appropriate supporting documentation to AMS.


(1) *Required information.* Each Reimbursement Claim Form associated with an approved Dairy Donation and Distribution Plan must include:


(i) The type and amount of eligible dairy products donated to the eligible distributor;


(ii) The physical address(es) of the plant(s) or co-pack facility(ies) that processed and, if applicable, distribution center(s) that stored the donated dairy products;


(iii) The date the eligible dairy products were processed;


(iv) The date the eligible dairy products were shipped to the eligible distributor;


(v) The respective sell-by, best-by, or use-by date(s) for the donated dairy products; and


(vi) Other information as needed on the Reimbursement Claim Form to calculate reimbursement.


(2) *Appropriate verifying documentation.* Each Reimbursement Claim Form must be accompanied by documents verifying that the donation(s) reported in the form were made. Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, copies of processing records, shipping records, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, distribution records, or other documents demonstrating the reported amount of eligible dairy products were processed, donated, and distributed in accordance with the approved Dairy Donation and Distribution Plan and Eligible Distributor Certification Form and as reported on the Reimbursement Claim Form.


(3) *Eligibility period.* To be considered for reimbursement, eligible dairy products must have been donated on or after January 1, 2020, until program funds are expended.


(b) Incomplete reimbursement requests will be returned to the submitter for revision or completion and resubmission as necessary.



---

[N] [86 FR 48898, Sept. 1, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 57872, Aug. 24, 2023]




