# § 203.368   Claims without conveyance procedure.

(a)(1) The requirements of this section apply to any insured mortgage subject to this subpart which was either insured pursuant to: 


(i) A conditional commitment issued on or after November 30, 1983 or, as appropriate, 


(ii) An application for mortgage insurance endorsement under the Single Family Direct Endorsement Program, as provided in § 203.255(b), where the property appraisal report was signed by the mortgagee's underwriter on or after November 30, 1983.


(2) The requirements of this section shall also apply to any other mortgages subject to this subpart where the mortgagee elects to provide the notice to HUD required by paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the requirements of this section do not apply if the mortgaged property has been damaged as set out in § 203.378.


(c) Nothing in this section shall affect any rights or obligations arising under the procedures set forth in subpart C of this part.


(d) After initiating proceedings to foreclose an insured mortgage within the coverage of paragraph (a)(1) of this section by judicial, statutory, or other means authorized by the mortgage instrument, the mortgagee shall furnish notice of the foreclosure to the Commissioner, containing such information as shall be prescribed by the Commissioner, together with a copy of the notice of sale, on or before the date of first publication, posting, or other notice. The mortgagee foreclosing an insured mortgage subject to this subpart and within the coverage of paragraph (a)(2) of this section may elect to become subject to this section by providing such notices to the Commissioner in accordance with the preceding sentence.


(e) Where notice of the foreclosure sale is provided pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, the Commissioner may elect to cause the mortgaged property to be appraised and to give written notice to the mortgagee, not less than five days prior to the date of the foreclosure sale, of the Commissioner's estimate of the fair market value of the mortgaged property, less adjustments as the Commissioner may deem appropriate (which may include, without limitation, the Commissioner's estimate of holding costs and resale costs that would be incurred if title to the mortgaged property were conveyed to the Commissioner). Such amount is referred to hereafter as the “Commissioner's adjusted fair market value.”


(f) If the Commissioner fails to provide notice of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value to the mortgagee not less than five days prior to the scheduled date of foreclosure sale, this section shall have no further application and §§ 203.355 through 203.367 shall apply: *Provided,* that a mortgagee which receives the Commissioner's notice at any time prior to the foreclosure sale may waive late receipt by so notifying the Commissioner, in which case this section shall apply.


(g) If the Commissioner provides notice of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section the following shall be applicable:


(1) The mortgagee shall tender a bid at the foreclosure sale in the amount of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value.


(2) If the mortgagee acquires title to the mortgaged property pursuant to a bid at foreclosure sale in an amount equal to the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value, the mortgagee may elect to retain title to the property and to file a claim for the insurance benefits computed as provided in § 203.401(b).


(3) If a party other than the mortgagee acquires title to the mortgaged property either pursuant to a bid at foreclosure sale or through the redemption of the property in an amount not less than the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value, the mortgagee may file a claim for the insurance benefits computed as provided in § 203.401(b).


(4) If the mortgagee acquires title to the mortgaged property pursuant to a bid at foreclosure sale in an amount in excess of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value, the mortgagee is deemed to have elected to retain title to the property and is limited to filing a claim for the insurance benefits computed as provided in § 203.401(b). In the event the mortgagee can show good cause for having bid an amount in excess of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value, the Commissioner may, at his discretion, waive the provisions of this subparagraph and allow the mortgagee to convey title to the Commissioner and file a claim for the insurance benefits computed as provided in § 203.401(a). A mortgagee which has elected to follow the provisions of this section pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section and bids an amount in excess of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value shall not be subject to the provisions of this subparagraph, and may elect to retain or convey title in filing a claim for the insurance benefits.


(5) In any other case, the mortgagee may file a claim for insurance benefits only upon conveyance of title to the mortgaged property to the Commissioner.


(h) If the Commissioner provides timely notice of the Commissioner's adjusted fair market value in accordance with paragraph (e), the Commissioner may require the mortgagee to advertise the upcoming sale in addition to the standard legal notices which may be required by state law.


(i) Where a mortgagee files a claim for the insurance benefits without conveying title to the property to the Commissioner, as authorized by this section:


(1) Sections 203.358 through 203.367 shall not be applicable.


(2) The mortgagee shall assign to the Commissioner, without recourse or warranty, any or all claims which the mortgagee has acquired in connection with the mortgage transaction and as a result of the foreclosure proceedings or other means by which the mortgagee or party other than the mortgagee acquired such property, except such claims as may have been released with the approval of the Commissioner.


(3) The mortgagee shall forward to the Commissioner:


(i) Fiscal data pertaining to the mortgage transaction;


(ii) The original credit and security instruments, if available, or a deficiency judgment, if any, duly assigned or endorsed by the mortgagee, without recourse, to the Commissioner; and


(iii) Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require.


(4) The mortgagee shall retain all cash amounts held or deposited for the account of the mortgagor or to which the mortgagee is entitled under the mortgage transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the principal mortgage indebtedness. Cash amounts shall be itemized and deducted from the claim pursuant to § 203.403. Receipts for disbursements are to be retained by the mortgagee and are to be made available upon request by the Commissioner.


(5) The mortgagee shall file its claim:


(i) Within 30 days after the mortgagee acquired good marketable title to the property; or


(ii) Within 30 days after a party other than the mortgagee acquired good marketable title to the property; or


(iii) In redemption States, within 30 days after the mortgagor or another party redeemed the property or the redemption period has expired; or


(iv) Within such other time as may be determined by the Commissioner.


(6) In any case in which the insurance benefits paid include, pursuant to § 203.402(c), hazard insurance premiums paid by the mortgagee, the portion of the hazard insurance premium allocable to the period after acquisition of title by the mortgagee or a third party shall be deducted from the mortgage insurance benefits otherwise payable.



---

[N] [52 FR 1327, Jan. 13, 1987, as amended at 61 FR 36453, July 10, 1996]




