# § 195.419   Valve capabilities.

(a) *Scope.* The requirements in this section apply to rupture-mitigation valves (RMV), as defined in § 195.2, or alternative equivalent technology, installed pursuant to §§ 195.258 and 195.418.


(b) *Rupture identification and valve shut-off time.* If an operator observes or is notified of a release of hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide that may be representative of an unintentional or uncontrolled release event meeting a notification of potential rupture (*see* §§ 195.2 and 195.417), including any unexplained flow rate changes, pressure changes, equipment functions, or other pipeline instrumentation indications observed by the operator, the operator must, as soon as practicable but within 30 minutes of rupture identification (*see* § 195.402(e)(4)), identify the rupture and fully close any RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies necessary to minimize the volume of hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide released from a pipeline and mitigate the consequences of a rupture.


(c) *Valve shut-off capability.* A valve must have the actuation capability necessary to close an RMV or alternative equivalent technology to mitigate the consequences of a rupture in accordance with the requirements of this section.


(d) *Valve monitoring and operational capabilities.* An RMV, as defined in § 195.2, or alternative equivalent technology, must be capable of being monitored or controlled by either remote or onsite personnel as follows:


(1) Operated during normal, abnormal, and emergency operating conditions;


(2) Monitored for valve status (*i.e.,* open, closed, or partial closed/open), upstream pressure, and downstream pressure. For automatic shut-off valves (ASV), an operator does not need to monitor remotely a valve's status if the operator has the capability to monitor pressures or flow rate within each pipeline segment located between RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies to identify and locate a rupture. Pipeline segments that use an alternative equivalent technology must have the capability to monitor pressures and hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide flow rates on the pipeline in order to identify and locate a rupture; and


(3) Have a back-up power source to maintain supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems or other remote communications for remote-control valve (RCV) or ASV operational status or be monitored and controlled by on-site personnel.


(e) *Monitoring of valve shut-off response status.* The position and operational status of an RMV must be appropriately monitored through electronic communication with remote instrumentation or other equivalent means. An operator does not need to monitor remotely an ASV's status if the operator has the capability to monitor pressures or hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide s flow rate on the pipeline to identify and locate a rupture.


(f) *Flow modeling for automatic shut-off valves.* Prior to using an ASV as an RMV, the operator must conduct flow modeling for the shut-off segment and any laterals that feed the shut-off segment, so that the valve will close within 30 minutes or less following rupture identification, consistent with the operator's procedures, and in accordance with § 195.2 and this section. The flow modeling must include the anticipated maximum, normal, or any other flow volumes, pressures, or other operating conditions that may be encountered during the year, not to exceed a period of 15 months, and it must be modeled for the flow between the RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies, and any looped pipelines or hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide receipt tie-ins. If operating conditions change that could affect the ASV set pressures and the 30-minute valve closure time following a notification of potential rupture, as defined at § 195.2, an operator must conduct a new flow model and reset the ASV set pressures prior to the next review for ASV set pressures in accordance with § 195.420. The flow model must include a time/pressure chart for the segment containing the ASV if a rupture event occurs. An operator must conduct this flow modeling prior to making flow condition changes in a manner that could render the 30-minute valve closure time unachievable.


(g) *Pipelines not affecting HCAs.* For pipeline segments that are not in a high-consequence area (HCA) or that could not affect an HCA, an operator submitting a notification pursuant to §§ 195.18 and 195.258 for use of manual valves as an alternative equivalent technology may also request an exemption from the valve operation requirements of § 195.419(b).


(h) *Exception.* The requirements of this section do not apply to gathering lines.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-105, 87 FR 20989, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 195-106, 88 FR 50063, Aug. 1, 2023]




