# ยง 704.9   Liquidity management.

(a) *General.* In the management of liquidity, a corporate credit union must:


(1) Evaluate the potential liquidity needs of its membership in a variety of economic scenarios;


(2) Regularly monitor and demonstrate accessibility to sources of internal and external liquidity;


(3) Keep a sufficient amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand to support its payment system obligations;


(4) Demonstrate that the accounting classification of investment securities is consistent with its ability to meet potential liquidity demands; and


(5) Develop a contingency funding plan that addresses alternative funding strategies in successively deteriorating liquidity scenarios. The plan must:


(i) List all sources of liquidity, by category and amount, that are available to service an immediate outflow of funds in various liquidity scenarios;


(ii) Analyze the impact that potential changes in fair value will have on the disposition of assets in a variety of interest rate scenarios; and


(iii) Be reviewed by the board or an appropriate committee no less frequently than annually or as market or business conditions dictate.


(b) *Borrowing limits.* A corporate credit union may borrow up to 10 times its total capital.


(1) *Secured borrowings.* A corporate credit union may borrow on a secured basis for liquidity purposes, but the maturity of the borrowing may not exceed 180 days. Only a corporate credit union with Tier 1 capital in excess of five percent of its moving daily average net assets (DANA) may borrow on a secured basis for nonliquidity purposes, and the outstanding amount of secured borrowing for nonliquidity purposes may not exceed an amount equal to the difference between the corporate credit union's Tier 1 capital and five percent of its moving DANA.


(2) *Exclusions.* CLF borrowings and borrowed funds created by the use of member reverse repurchase agreements are excluded from the limit in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [75 FR 64843, Oct. 20, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 25938, May 6, 2015]




