# § 1128.710   What program income includes.

(a) *OMB guidance.* Under the definition of “program income” at 2 CFR 200.80 and related OMB guidance at 2 CFR 200.307, an agency's regulations or terms and conditions of grants and cooperative agreements may include as program income:


(1) Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them; and


(2) Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and other similar revenue raised by a governmental recipient.


(b) *DoD implementation.* Unless a statute or program regulation adopted in the Code of Federal Regulations after opportunity for public comment specifies otherwise, each DoD Component must exclude the types of income listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section from program income for which recipients are accountable to the Federal Government.


(c) *Award terms and conditions* — (1) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a DoD Component must use the wording provided in appendix G to this part as Section A of FMS Article VII in its general terms and conditions. Doing so excludes the types of income listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section from program income for which recipients are accountable to the Federal Government.


(2) *Exceptions.* If a DoD Component has a statutory or regulatory basis for including either or both types of income described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, it may do so by appropriately revising the wording appendix G provides for Section A of FMS Article VII. For example, to include as program income:


(i) Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on them, a DoD Component would reserve paragraph A.3.c and insert the wording of that paragraph as a new paragraph at the end of section A.2, thereby adding them to the list of items included as program income subject to FMS Article VII.


(ii) Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and other similar revenue raised by a governmental recipient, a DoD Component would reserve paragraph A.3.d and insert that wording as a new paragraph at the end of section A.2, thereby adding them to the list of items included as program income subject to FMS Article VII.




