# § 370.42   What is Tier II inventory information?

Tier II information provides State and local officials and the public with specific information on the amounts and locations of hazardous chemicals present at your facility during the previous calendar year. Some states may require you to use a state reporting format including electronic reporting and certification for submitting your hazardous chemical inventory. Contact your state for the specific requirements in that state. Tier II inventory form includes the following data elements:


(a) Certification. The owner or operator or the officially designated representative of the owner or operator must certify that all information included in the Tier II submission is true, accurate, and complete as follows: “I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information and that based on my inquiry of those individuals responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete.” This certification must be accompanied by your full name, official title, signature, date signed, and total number of pages in the submission including all Confidential and Non-Confidential Information Sheets and all attachments. All other pages must also contain your signature or signature stamp, the date you signed the certification, and the total number of pages in the submission.


(b) The calendar year of the reporting period.


(c) An indication whether the information being reported on page one of the form is identical to that submitted last year.


(d) The complete name and address of the location of your facility (include the full street address or state road, city, county, State and zip code), latitude and longitude.


(e) An indication if the location of your facility is manned or unmanned.


(f) An estimate of the maximum number of occupants present at any one time. If the location of your facility is unmanned, check the box marked N/A, not applicable.


(g) The phone number of your facility (optional).


(h) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for your facility.


(i) The Dun & Bradstreet number of your facility.


(j) Facility identification numbers assigned under the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) and Risk Management Program. If your facility has not been assigned an identification number under these programs or if your facility is not subject to reporting under these programs, check the box marked N/A, not applicable.


(k) An indication if your facility is subject to the emergency planning notification requirement under section 302 of EPCRA, codified in 40 CFR part 355.


(l) An indication whether your facility is subject to the chemical accident prevention requirements under section 112(r) of the Clean Air Act (CAA), codified in 40 CFR part 68, Chemical Accident Prevention Provisions, also known as the Risk Management Program.


(m) The name, mailing address, phone number and email address of the owner or operator of the facility.


(n) The name, mailing address, phone number, Dun & Bradstreet number and email address of the facility's parent company. These are optional data elements.


(o) The name, title, phone number, 24-hour phone number and email address of the facility emergency coordinator, if applicable.


(p) The name, title, phone number and email address of the person to contact regarding information contained in the Tier II form.


(q) The name, title, phone number and email address of at least one local individual that can act as a referral if emergency responders need assistance in responding to a chemical accident at your facility. You must also provide an emergency phone number which will be available 24 hours a day, every day.


(r) An indication whether the information being reported on page two of the form is identical to that submitted last year.


(s) For each hazardous chemical that you are required to report, you must:


(1) *Pure Chemical:* Provide the chemical name (or the common name of the chemical) as provided on the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) (or Safety Data Sheet (SDS)) and provide the Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) registry number of the chemical provided on the MSDS (or SDS).


(2) Indicate whether the chemical is a solid, liquid, or gas; and whether the chemical is an EHS.


(3) *Mixture.* If you are reporting a mixture, enter the mixture name, product name or trade name as provided on the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) (or Safety Data Sheet (SDS)) and provide the Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) registry number of the mixture provided on the MSDS (or SDS). If there is no CAS number provided or it is not known, check the box “Not Available.”


(4) If the mixture you are reporting contains EHS(s), provide the name(s) of each EHS in the mixture. As provided in § 370.14(a), you also have an option to report the non-EHS hazardous components in the mixture.


(5) *Pure Chemical or Mixture:* Indicate which hazard categories (or hazard classes) apply to the chemical or the mixture. The hazard categories (or physical and health hazards) are defined in § 370.66.


(6) Provide an estimate (in ranges) of the maximum amount of the hazardous chemical present at your facility on any single day during the preceding calendar year. If you are reporting a mixture, provide an estimate of the total amount of the mixture present at your facility on any single day during the preceding calendar year. If the mixture contains any EHS, provide the total amount of each EHS in that mixture. You must use the codes that correspond to different ranges. The amounts and associated range codes are in § 370.43.


(7) Provide an estimate (in ranges) of the average daily amount of the hazardous chemical present at your facility during the preceding calendar year. If you are reporting a mixture, provide an estimate of the average daily amount of the mixture. You must use the codes that correspond to different ranges. The amounts and associated range codes are in § 370.43.


(8) Provide the maximum number of days that the hazardous chemical or mixture was present at your facility during the preceding calendar year.


(9) Provide the type of storage for the hazardous chemical or the mixture containing the hazardous chemical at your facility. Examples for types of storage: Above-ground tank, plastic or non-metallic drum, steel drum, cylinder, rail car, etc.


(10) Provide the storage conditions for the hazardous chemical or the mixture containing the hazardous chemical at your facility. Examples for types of storage conditions: Ambient pressure, ambient temperature, less than ambient temperature/pressure, cryogenic conditions, etc.


(11) Provide a brief description of the precise location(s) of the hazardous chemical(s) or the mixture(s) at your facility. You may also attach one of the following with your Tier II inventory form:


(i) A *site plan* with site coordinates indicated for buildings, lots, areas, etc. throughout your facility.


(ii) A *list of site coordinate abbreviations* that correspond to buildings, lots, areas, etc., throughout your facility.


(iii) A *description of dikes and other safeguard measures* for storage locations throughout your facility.


(12) Under EPCRA section 324, you may choose to withhold from disclosure to the public the location information for a specific chemical. If you choose to withhold the location information from disclosure to the public, you must clearly indicate that the information is “confidential.” You must provide the confidential location information on a separate sheet from the other Tier II information (which will be disclosed to the public), and attach the Confidential Location Information Sheet to the other Tier II information. Indicate any attachments you are including.


(13) You may provide additional reporting. For example, if your State or local agencies require you to provide inventory information on additional chemicals or if you wish to report any hazardous chemical below the reporting thresholds specified in § 370.10, check the appropriate box.


(t) An indication whether you are including any attachments (optional).



---

[N] [77 FR 41314, July 13, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 38109, June 13, 2016]




