# ยง 515.11   Basic requirements for licensing; eligibility.

(a) *Necessary qualifications.* To be eligible for an ocean transportation intermediary license, the applicant must demonstrate to the Commission that:


(1) It possesses the necessary experience, that is, its qualifying individual has a minimum of three (3) years' experience in ocean transportation intermediary activities in the United States, and the necessary character to render ocean transportation intermediary services. A foreign NVOCC seeking to be licensed under this part must demonstrate that its qualifying individual has a minimum 3 years' experience in ocean transportation intermediary activities, and the necessary character to render ocean transportation intermediary services. The required OTI experience of the QI of a foreign-based NVOCC seeking to become licensed under this part (foreign-based licensed NVOCC) may be experience acquired in the U.S. or a foreign country with respect to shipments in the United States oceanborne foreign commerce.


(2) In addition to information provided by the applicant and its references, the Commission may consider all information relevant to determining whether an applicant has the necessary character to render ocean transportation intermediary services, including but not limited to, information regarding: Violations of any shipping laws, or statutes relating to the import, export, or transport of merchandise in international trade; operating as an OTI without a license or registration; state and federal felonies and misdemeanors; voluntary and non-voluntary bankruptcies not discharged; outstanding tax liens and other court and administrative judgments and proceedings; compliance with immigration status requirements described in 49 CFR 1572.105; denial, revocation, or suspension of a Transportation Worker Identification Credential under 49 CFR 1572; and the denial, revocation, or suspension of a customs broker's license under 19 CFR subpart B, section 111. The required OTI experience of the QI of a foreign-based NVOCC seeking to become licensed under this part (foreign-based licensed NVOCC) may be acquired in the U.S. or a foreign country with respect to shipments in the United States oceanborne foreign commerce.


(b) *Qualifying individual.* The following individuals must qualify the applicant for a license:


(1) *Sole proprietorship.* The applicant sole proprietor.


(2) *Partnership.* At least one of the active managing partners, unless the partners are entities, such as corporations, in which case an officer, member, or manager of one of the entities as long as the entity is a general partner.


(3) *Corporation.* At least one of the active corporate officers.


(4) *Limited liability company.* One of the members or managers, or an individual in an equivalent position in the LLC as expressly set forth in the LLC operating agreement.


(c) *Affiliates of intermediaries.* An independently qualified applicant may be granted a separate license to carry on the business of providing ocean transportation intermediary services even though it is associated with, under common control with, or otherwise related to another ocean transportation intermediary through stock ownership or common directors or officers, if such applicant submits: A separate application and fee, and a valid instrument of financial responsibility in the form and amount prescribed under ยง 515.21. The qualifying individual of one active licensee shall not also be designated as the qualifying individual of an applicant for another ocean transportation intermediary license, unless both entities are commonly owned or where one directly controls the other.


(d) *Common carrier.* A common carrier or agent thereof which meets the requirements of this part may be licensed as an ocean freight forwarder to dispatch shipments moving on other than such carrier's own bills of lading subject to the provisions of ยง 515.42(g).


(e) *Foreign-based licensed NVOCC.* A foreign-based NVOCC that elects to obtain a license must establish a presence in the United States by opening an unincorporated office that is resident in the United States and is qualified to do business where it is located.



---

[N] [80 FR 68732, Nov. 5, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 62467, Nov. 15, 2019]




