# ยง 146.7   Definitions.

The terms *HUD* and *Secretary* are defined in 24 CFR part 5. 


*Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 42 U.S.C. 6101-07. 


*Action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration. 


*Age* means how old a person is, or the number of elapsed years from the date of a person's birth. 


*Age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term. 


*Age-related term* means a word or words which necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example, *children, adult, older persons,* but not *student*). 


*Federal financial assistance* means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which HUD provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of: 


(a) Funds; 


(b) Service of Federal personnel; or 


(c) Real or personal property or any interest in or use of property, including: 


(1) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and 


(2) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal government. 


*Recipient* means any State or its political subdivisions; any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivisions; any public or private agency; any Indian tribe or Alaskan Native Village, institution, organization, or other entity; or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but does not include the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance. 


*Subrecipient* means any of the entities in the definition of *recipient* to which a recipient extends or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient set out in this part. 


*United States* means the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States. 



---

[N] [51 FR 45266, Dec. 17, 1986, as amended at 61 FR 5206, Feb. 9, 1996]




