# § 602.8   Appeals.

(a) *How to appeal.* You may appeal a total or partial denial of your FOIA request within 90 calendar days of the date of the denial letter. Your appeal must be in writing and addressed to the Director, Office of Agency Services (OAS), Farm Credit Administration. You may send it:


(1) By mail to 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102-5090;


(2) By facsimile to (703) 893-2608; or


(3) By Email to *foiaappeal@fca.gov.* You also have the right to seek dispute resolution services from FCA's FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.


(b) *FCA action on appeal.* Within 20 business days of receiving your appeal, the OAS Director will tell you, in writing, whether we have granted or denied it. If you send your appeal to the wrong address, the 20-day response time will not begin until the OAS Director receives your appeal.


(c) *Unusual circumstances.* In unusual circumstances, the OAS Director may extend the 20-day response time by telling you in writing why we need more time and the date we will mail you our response. All extensions, including any extension of the response time for the first request, may not total more than 10 business days.


(d) *How to seek dispute resolution services.* Requesters may seek dispute resolution services from:


(1) FCA's FOIA Public Liaison;


(i) By mail addressed to FOIA Public Liaison, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22101-5090;


(ii) By facsimile at 703-790-3260; or


(iii) By Email at *FOIAPublicLiaison@fca.gov.*

(2) Office of Government Information Services;


(i) By mail to Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road—OGIS, College Park, Maryland, 20740-6001;


(ii) By facsimile at (202) 741-5769; or


(iii) By Email at *ogis@nara.gov.*


---

[N] [64 FR 41770, Aug. 2, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 69645, Nov. 17, 2005; 81 FR 47692, July 22, 2016; 81 FR 63366, Sept. 15, 2016]




