# § 982.642   Homeownership option: Pilot program for homeownership assistance for disabled families.

(a) *General.* This section implements the pilot program authorized by section 302 of the American Homeownership and Economic Opportunity Act of 2000. Under the pilot program, a PHA may provide homeownership assistance to a disabled family residing in a home purchased and owned by one or more members of the family. A PHA that administers tenant-based assistance has the choice whether to offer homeownership assistance under the pilot program (whether or not the PHA has also decided to offer the homeownership option).


(b) *Applicability of homeownership option requirements.* Except as provided in this section, all of the regulations applicable to the homeownership option (as described in §§ 982.625 through 982.641) are also applicable to the pilot program. 


(c) *Initial eligibility requirements.* Before commencing homeownership assistance under the pilot program for a family, the PHA must determine that all of the following initial requirements have been satisfied: 


(1) The family is a disabled family (as defined in § 5.403 of this title); 


(2) The family annual income does not exceed 99 percent of the median income for the area; 


(3) The family is not a current homeowner; 


(4) The family must close on the purchase of the home during the period starting on July 23, 2001 and ending on July 23, 2004; and


(5) The family meets the initial requirements described in § 982.626; however, the following initial requirements do not apply to a family seeking to participate in the pilot program: 


(i) The income eligibility requirements of § 982.201(b)(1); 


(ii) The first-time homeowner requirements of § 982.627(b); and


(iii) The mortgage default requirements of § 982.627(e), if the PHA determines that the default is due to catastrophic medical reasons or due to the impact of a federally declared major disaster or emergency. 


(d) *Amount and distribution of homeownership assistance payments.* (1) While the family is residing in the home, the PHA shall calculate a monthly homeownership assistance payment on behalf of the family in accordance with § 982.635 and this section. 


(2) A family that is a low income family (as defined at 24 CFR 5.603(b)) as determined by HUD shall receive the full amount of the monthly homeownership assistance payment calculated under § 982.635. 


(3) A family whose annual income is greater than the low income family ceiling but does not exceed 89 percent of the median income for the area as determined by HUD shall receive a monthly homeownership assistance payment equal to 66 percent of the amount calculated under § 982.635. 


(4) A family whose annual income is greater than the 89 percent ceiling but does not exceed 99 percent of the median income for the area as determined by HUD shall receive a monthly homeownership assistance payment equal to 33 percent of the amount calculated under § 982.635. 


(5) A family whose annual income is greater than 99 percent of the median income for the area shall not receive homeownership assistance under the pilot program. 


(e) *Assistance payments to lender.* The PHA must make homeownership assistance payments to a lender on behalf of the disabled family. If the assistance payment exceeds the amount due to the lender, the PHA must pay the excess directly to the family. The provisions of § 982.635(d), which permit the PHA to make monthly homeownership assistance payments directly to the family, do not apply to the pilot program. 


(f) *Mortgage defaults.* The requirements of § 982.638(d) regarding mortgage defaults are applicable to the pilot program. However, notwithstanding § 982.638(d), the PHA may, in its discretion, permit a family that has defaulted on its mortgage to move to a new unit with continued voucher homeownership assistance if the PHA determines that the default is due to catastrophic medical reasons or due to the impact of a federally declared major disaster or emergency. The requirements of §§ 982.627(a)(5) and 982.627(e) do not apply to such a family.



---

[N] [66 FR 33613, June 22, 2001]




