# ยง 1.527-7   Newsletter funds.

(a) *In general.* For purposes of this section, a fund established and maintained by an individual who holds, has been elected to, or is a candidate (within the meaning of section 41(c)(2)) for nomination or election to, any Federal, State, or local elective public office for the use by such individual exclusively for an exempt function, as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be a newsletter fund. If assets of a newsletter fund are used for any purpose other than the exempt function of the newsletter fund as defined in paragraph (c) of this section, such amount shall be treated as expended for the personal use of the individual who established and maintained such fund. In addition, future contributions to such fund are treated as income to the individual who established and maintained the fund. In such a case, the facts and circumstances may indicate that the fund was never established and maintained exclusively for an exempt function as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Determination of taxable income.* A newsletter fund shall be treated as if it were a political organization for purposes of determining its taxable income. However, the specific $100 deduction provided by section 527(c)(2)(A) shall not be allowed.


(c) *Exempt function.* For purposes of this section, the exempt function of a newsletter fund consists solely of the preparation and circulation of the newsletter. Among the expenditures treated as preparation and circulation expenditures of the newsletter are:


(1) Secretarial services,


(2) Printing,


(3) Addressing, and


(4) Mailing.


(d) *Nonexempt function purposes.* Newsletter fund assets may not be used for campaign activities. Therefore, an exempt function of a newsletter fund does not include:


(1) Expenditures for an exempt function as defined in ยง 1.527-2(c) or


(2) Transfers of unexpended amounts to a political organization described in section 527(e)(1).


(e) *Excess funds.* Excess funds held by a newsletter fund which has ceased to engage in the preparation and circulation of the newsletter are treated as expended for the personal use of the individual who established and maintained such fund. However, to the extent such excess funds are within a reasonable period of time:


(1) Contributed to or for the use of any organization described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 509(a) which is exempt from taxation under section 501(a),


(2) Deposited in the general fund of the U.S. Treasury or in the general fund of any State or local government (including the District of Columbia), or


(3) Contributed to any other newsletter fund as described in paragraph (a) of this section,



---

[N] [T.D. 7744, 45 FR 85735, Dec. 30, 1980]




