# ยง 210.26   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Article 4A* means Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial Code as set forth in appendix A of this part, which is incorporated into this subpart in accordance with ยง 210.25(b).


*Automated clearing house transfer* means any transfer designated as an automated clearing house transfer in an operating circular issued by the Federal Reserve Banks.


*Beneficiary* has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a beneficiary in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.


*Beneficiary's bank* has the same meaning as in Article 4A, except that:


(1) The term is limited to a beneficiary's bank in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service;


(2) A Federal Reserve Bank need not be identified in the payment order in order to be the beneficiary's bank; and


(3) The term includes a Federal Reserve Bank when that Federal Reserve Bank is the beneficiary of a payment order.


*Fedwire Funds Service* means the funds-transfer system owned and operated by the Federal Reserve Banks that is used primarily for the transmission and settlement of payment orders governed by this subpart. The Fedwire Funds Service does not include the FedNow Service or the system for making automated clearing house transfers.


*Interdistrict transfer* means a funds transfer involving entries to accounts maintained at two Federal Reserve Banks.


*Intradistrict transfer* means a funds transfer involving entries to accounts maintained at one Federal Reserve Bank.


*Off-line bank* means a bank that sends payment orders to and receives payment orders from a Federal Reserve Bank by telephone orally or by other means other than electronic data transmission.


*Payment order* has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term includes only instructions sent or received through the Fedwire Funds Service and does not include automated clearing house transfers or any communication designated in an operating circular issued by a Federal Reserve Bank under this subpart as not being a payment order.


*Receiving bank* has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a receiving bank in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.


*Sender* has the same meaning as in Article 4A except that the term is limited to a sender in a funds transfer any portion of which is sent through the Fedwire Funds Service.


*Sender's account, receiving bank's account,* and *beneficiary's account* mean the reserve, clearing, or other funds deposit account at a Federal Reserve Bank maintained or used by the sender, receiving bank, or beneficiary, respectively.


*Sender's Federal Reserve Bank* and *receiving bank's Federal Reserve Bank* mean the Federal Reserve Bank at which the sender or receiving bank, respectively, maintains or uses an account.



---

[N] [Reg. J, 87 FR 34358, June 6, 2022]




