# ยง 7.16   Effect on other regulations; forms and instructions.

(a) *Effect on other regulations.* All regulations, orders, or like directions heretofore issued by any officer of the Federal Emergency Management Agency which impose requirements designed to prohibit any discrimination against individuals on the ground of race, color, or national origin under any program to which this regulation applies, and which authorize the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue Federal financial assistance to any applicant for or recipient of such assistance for failure to comply with such requirements, are hereby superseded to the extent that such discrimination is prohibited by this regulation, except that nothing in this regulation shall be deemed to relieve any person of any obligation assumed or imposed under any such superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction prior to the effective date of this regulation. Nothing in this regulation, however, shall be deemed to supersede Executive Orders 10925 and 11114 (including future amendments thereof) and regulations issued thereunder, or any other regulations or instructions, insofar as such regulations or instructions prohibit discrimination on the ground of race, color, or national origin in any program or situation to which this regulation is inapplicable, or prohibit discrimination on any other ground.


(b) *Forms and instructions.* Each responsible agency official shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this regulation as applied to programs to which this regulation applies and for which he is responsible.


(c) *Supervision and coordination.* The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency may from time to time assign to officials of other departments or agencies of the Government with the consent of such departments or agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purposes of title VI of the Act and this regulation (other than responsibility for final decision as provided in section 14), including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within the agency and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of title VI and this regulation to similar programs and in similar situations.



---

[N] [30 FR 321, Jan. 9, 1965. Redesignated at 45 FR 44575, July 1, 1980, and further redesignated at 55 FR 23078, June 6, 1990. 68 FR 51379, Aug. 26, 2003]




