# ยง 1506.4   What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?

*Administrative offset* means the withholding of funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes to the Government.


*Administrative wage garnishment* means the process by which federal agencies require a private sector employer to withhold up to 15% of an employee's disposable pay to satisfy a delinquent debt owed to the Federal government. A court order is not required.


*Agency* means the United States African Development Foundation (USADF).


*CFO* means the Chief Financial Officer of USADF or the USADF official designated to act as the CFO.


*Claim or debt* means an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency.


*Compromise* means the creditor agency's acceptance of an amount less than the full amount of an outstanding debt in full satisfaction of the entire amount of the debt.


*Creditor agency* means the Federal agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.


*Debtor* means an individual, organization, association, corporation, or a State or local government indebted to the United States or a person or entity with legal responsibility for assuming the debtor's obligation.


*Delinquent claim or debt* means any claim or debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's Bill for Collection or demand letter for payment or which has not been satisfied in accordance with a repayment agreement.


*Discharge* means the release of a debtor from personal liability for the debt. Further collection action is prohibited.


*Disposable pay* means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of the employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld (other than deductions to execute garnishment orders) in accordance with 5 CFR parts 581 and 582. Among the legally required deductions that must be applied first to determine disposable pay are levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, United States Code) and deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105(b) through (f). These deductions include, but are not limited to: Social Security withholdings; Federal, State, and local tax withholdings; health insurance premiums; retirement contributions; and life insurance premiums.


*Employee* means a current employee of the Federal Government including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces.


*Employee salary offset* means the administrative collection of a debt by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without the employee's consent.


*Person* means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency, foreign government, or public international organization.


*Suspension* means the temporary cessation of an active debt collection pending the occurrence of an anticipated event.


*Termination* means the cessation of all active debt collection action for the foreseeable future.


*Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness or non-recovery of a debt or debt-related charge as permitted or required by law.


*Withholding order* means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by USADF or a judicial or administrative body. For the purposes of this Part, wage garnishment order and garnishment order have the same meaning as withholding order.




