# § 60.392   Standards for volatile organic compounds.

On and after the date on which the initial performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility VOC emissions in excess of the limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. The emission limitations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) shall apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part.








(a) *Prime Coat Operation.* (1) For each EDP prime coat operation: 


(i) 0.17 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R_T_ is 0.16 or greater. 


(ii) 0.17 × 350 (_0.160−R__T_) kg of VOC per liter of applied coating solids when R_T_ is greater than or equal to 0.040 and less than 0.160. 


(iii) When R_T_ is less than 0.040, there is no emission limit. 


(2) For each nonelectrodeposition prime coat operation: 0.17 kilogram of VOC per liter of applied coating solids. 


(b) 1.40 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from each guide coat operation.


(c) 1.47 kilograms of VOC per liter of applied coating solids from each topcoat operation.



---

[N] [45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51386, Oct. 11, 1994; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]




