# § 1.274-13   Disallowance of deductions for certain qualified transportation fringe expenditures.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in this section, no deduction otherwise allowable under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) is allowed for any expense of any qualified transportation fringe as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:


(1) *Qualified transportation fringe.* The term *qualified transportation fringe* means any of the following provided by an employer to an employee:


(i) Transportation in a commuter highway vehicle if such transportation is in connection with travel between the employee's residence and place of employment (as described in sections 132(f)(1)(A) and 132(f)(5)(B));


(ii) Any transit pass (as described in sections 132(f)(1)(B) and 132(f)(5)(A)); or


(iii) Qualified parking (as described in sections 132(f)(1)(C) and 132(f)(5)(C)).


(2) *Employee.* The term *employee* means a common law employee or other statutory employee, such as an officer of a corporation, who is currently employed by the taxpayer. See § 1.132-9 Q/A-5. Partners, 2-percent shareholders of S corporations (as defined in section 1372(b)), sole proprietors, and independent contractors are not employees of the taxpayer for purposes of this section. See § 1.132-9 Q/A-24.


(3) *General public.* (i) *In general.* The term *general public* includes, but is not limited to, customers, clients, visitors, individuals delivering goods or services to the taxpayer, students of an educational institution, and patients of a health care facility. The term general public does not include individuals that are employees, partners, 2-percent shareholders of S corporations (as defined in section 1372(b)), sole proprietors, or independent contractors of the taxpayer. Also, an exclusive list of guests of a taxpayer is not the general public. Parking spaces that are available to the general public but empty are treated as provided to the general public. Parking spaces that are used to park vehicles owned by the general public while the vehicles await repair or service by the taxpayer are also treated as provided to the general public.


(ii) *Multi-tenant building.* If a taxpayer owns or leases space in a multi-tenant building, the term *general public* includes employees, partners, 2-percent shareholders of S corporations (as defined in section 1372(b)), sole proprietors, independent contractors, clients, or customers of unrelated tenants in the building.


(4) *Parking facility.* The term *parking facility* includes indoor and outdoor garages and other structures, as well as parking lots and other areas, where a taxpayer provides qualified parking (as defined in section 132(f)(5)(C)) to one or more of its employees. The term *parking facility* may include one or more parking facilities but does not include parking spaces on or near property used by an employee for residential purposes.


(5) *Geographic location.* The term *geographic location* means contiguous tracts or parcels of land owned or leased by the taxpayer. Two or more tracts or parcels of land are contiguous if they share common boundaries or would share common boundaries but for the interposition of a road, street, railroad, stream, or similar property. Tracts or parcels of land which touch only at a common corner are not contiguous.


(6) *Total parking spaces.* The term *total parking spaces* means the total number of parking spaces, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, in the parking facility.


(7) *Reserved employee spaces.* The term *reserved employee spaces* means the spaces in the parking facility, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, exclusively reserved for the taxpayer's employees. Employee spaces in the parking facility, or portion thereof, may be exclusively reserved for employees by a variety of methods, including, but not limited to, specific signage (for example, “Employee Parking Only”) or a separate facility or portion of a facility segregated by a barrier to entry or limited by terms of access. Inventory/unusable spaces are not included in *reserved employee spaces.*

(8) *Reserved nonemployee spaces.* The term *reserved nonemployee spaces* means the spaces in the parking facility, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, exclusively reserved for nonemployees. Such parking spaces may include, but are not limited to, spaces reserved exclusively for visitors, customers, partners, sole proprietors, 2-percent shareholders of S corporations (as defined in section 1372(b)), vendor deliveries, and passenger loading/unloading. Nonemployee spaces in the parking facility, or portion thereof, may be exclusively reserved for nonemployees by a variety of methods, including, but not limited to, specific signage (for example, “Customer Parking Only”) or a separate facility, or portion of a facility, segregated by a barrier to entry or limited by terms of access. Inventory/unusable spaces are not included in *reserved nonemployee spaces.*

(9) *Inventory/unusable spaces.* The term *inventory/unusable spaces* means the spaces in the parking facility, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, exclusively used or reserved for inventoried vehicles, qualified nonpersonal use vehicles described in § 1.274-5(k), or other fleet vehicles used in the taxpayer's business, or that are otherwise not usable for parking by employees or the general public. Examples of such parking spaces include, but are not limited to, parking spaces for vehicles that are intended to be sold or leased at a car dealership or car rental agency, parking spaces for vehicles owned by an electric utility used exclusively to maintain electric power lines, or parking spaces occupied by trash dumpsters (or similar property). Taxpayers may use any reasonable methodology to determine the number of inventory/unusable spaces in the parking facility. A reasonable methodology may include using the average of monthly inventory counts.


(10) *Available parking spaces.* The term *available parking spaces* means the total parking spaces, less reserved employee spaces and less inventory/unusable spaces, that are available to employees and the general public.


(11) *Primary use.* The term *primary use* means greater than 50 percent of actual or estimated usage of the available parking spaces in the parking facility.


(12) *Total parking expenses*—(i) *In general.* The term *total parking expenses* means all expenses of the taxpayer related to total parking spaces in a parking facility including, but not limited to, repairs, maintenance, utility costs, insurance, property taxes, interest, snow and ice removal, leaf removal, trash removal, cleaning, landscape costs, parking lot attendant expenses, security, and rent or lease payments or a portion of a rent or lease payment (if not broken out separately). A taxpayer may use any reasonable methodology to allocate mixed parking expenses to a parking facility. A deduction for an allowance for depreciation on a parking facility owned by a taxpayer and used for parking by the taxpayer's employees is an allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear, and obsolescence of property, and not included in *total parking expenses* for purposes of this section. Expenses paid or incurred for nonparking facility property, including items related to property next to the parking facility, such as landscaping or lighting, also are not included in *total parking expenses.*

(ii) *Optional rule for allocating certain mixed parking expenses.* A taxpayer may choose to allocate 5 percent of any the following mixed parking expenses to a parking facility: Lease or rental agreement expenses, property taxes, interest expense, and expenses for utilities and insurance.


(13) *Mixed parking expense.* The term *mixed parking expense* means a single expense amount paid or incurred by a taxpayer that includes both parking facility and nonparking facility expenses for a property that a taxpayer owns or leases.


(14) *Peak demand period*—(i) *In general.* The term *peak demand period* refers to the period of time on a typical business day during the taxable year when the greatest number of the taxpayer's employees are utilizing parking spaces in the taxpayer's parking facility. If a taxpayer's employees work in shifts, the *peak demand period* would take into account the shift during which the largest number of employees park in the taxpayer's parking facility. However, a brief transition period during which two shifts overlap in their use of parking spaces, as one shift of employees is getting ready to leave and the next shift is reporting to work, may be disregarded. Taxpayers may use any reasonable methodology to determine the total number of spaces used by employees during the *peak demand period* on a typical business day. A reasonable methodology may include periodic inspections or employee surveys.


(ii) *Optional rule for federally declared disasters.* If a taxpayer owns or leases a parking facility that is located in a federally declared disaster area, as defined in section 165(i)(5), the taxpayer may choose to identify a typical business day for the taxable year in which the disaster occurred by reference to a typical business day in that taxable year prior to the date that the taxpayer's operations were impacted by the federally declared disaster. Alternatively, a taxpayer may choose to identify a typical business day during the month(s) of the taxable year in which the disaster occurred by reference to a typical business day during the same month(s) of the taxable year immediately preceding the taxable year in which the disaster first occurred. For purposes of applying the optional rule for federally declared disasters, the taxable year in which the disaster occurs is determined without regard to whether an election under section 165(i) is made with respect to the disaster.


(c) *Optional aggregation rule for calculating total parking spaces; taxpayer owned or leased parking facilities.* For purposes of determining total parking spaces in calculating the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses under the general rule in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, or the cost per space methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a taxpayer that owns or leases more than one parking facility in a single geographic location may aggregate the number of spaces in those parking facilities. For example, parking spaces at an office park or an industrial complex in the geographic location may be aggregated. However, a taxpayer may not aggregate parking spaces in parking facilities that are in different geographic locations. A taxpayer that chooses to aggregate its parking spaces under this paragraph (c) must determine its total parking expenses, including the allocation of mixed parking expenses, as if the aggregated parking spaces constitute one parking facility.


(d) *Calculation of disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe expenses*—(1) *Taxpayer pays a third party for parking qualified transportation fringe.* If a taxpayer pays a third party an amount for its employees' parking qualified transportation fringe, the section 274(a)(4) disallowance generally is calculated as the taxpayer's total annual cost of employee parking qualified transportation fringes paid to the third party.


(2) *Taxpayer provides parking qualified transportation fringe at a parking facility it owns or leases.* If a taxpayer owns or leases all or a portion of one or more parking facilities where its employees park, the section 274(a)(4) disallowance may be calculated using the general rule in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or any of the simplified methodologies in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section. A taxpayer may choose to use the general rule or any of the following methodologies for each taxable year and for each parking facility.


(i) *General rule.* A taxpayer that uses the general rule in this paragraph (d)(2)(i) must calculate the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses for each employee receiving the qualified transportation fringe based on a reasonable interpretation of section 274(a)(4). A taxpayer that uses the general rule in this paragraph (d)(2)(i) may use the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section for determining total parking spaces. An interpretation of section 274(a)(4) is not reasonable unless the taxpayer applies the following rules when calculating the disallowance under this paragraph (d)(2)(i).


(A) *A taxpayer must not use value to determine expense.* A taxpayer may not use the value of employee parking to determine expenses allocable to employee parking that is either owned or leased by the taxpayer because section 274(a)(4) disallows a deduction for the expense of providing a qualified transportation fringe, regardless of its value.


(B) *A taxpayer must not deduct expenses related to reserved employee spaces.* A taxpayer must determine the allocable portion of total parking expenses that relate to any reserved employee spaces. No deduction is allowed for the parking expenses that relate to reserved employee spaces.


(C) *A taxpayer must not improperly apply the exception for qualified parking made available to the public.* A taxpayer must not improperly apply the exception in section 274(e)(7) or paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section to parking facilities, for example, by treating a parking facility regularly used by employees as available to the general public merely because the general public has access to the parking facility.


(ii) *Additional simplified methodologies.* Instead of using the general rule in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for a taxpayer owned or leased parking facility, a taxpayer may use a simplified methodology under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.


(A) *Qualified parking limit methodology.* A taxpayer that uses the qualified parking limit methodology in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) must calculate the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses by multiplying the total number of spaces used by employees during the peak demand period, or the total number of taxpayer's employees, by the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion (adjusted for inflation), for each month in the taxable year. The result is the amount of the taxpayer's expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4). In applying this methodology, a taxpayer calculates the disallowed amount as required under this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A), regardless of the actual amount of the taxpayer's total parking expenses. This methodology may be used only if the taxpayer includes the value of the qualified transportation fringe in excess of the sum of the amount, if any, paid by the employee for the qualified transportation fringe and the applicable statutory monthly limit in section 132(f)(2) as compensation paid to the employee under chapter 1 of the Code (chapter 1) and as wages to the employee for purposes of withholding under chapter 24 of the Code (chapter 24), relating to collection of Federal income tax at source on wages. In addition, the exception to the disallowance for amounts treated as employee compensation provided for in section 274(e)(2) and in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section cannot be applied to reduce a section 274(a)(4) disallowance calculated using this methodology. A taxpayer using this methodology may not use the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section.


(B) *Primary use methodology.* A taxpayer that uses the primary use methodology in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) must use the following four-step methodology to calculate the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses for each parking facility for which the taxpayer uses the primary use methodology. A taxpayer using this methodology may use the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section for determining total parking spaces.


(*1*) *Step 1—Calculate the disallowance for reserved employee spaces.* A taxpayer must identify the total parking spaces in the parking facility, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, exclusively reserved for the taxpayer's employees. The taxpayer must then determine the percentage of reserved employee spaces in relation to total parking spaces and multiply that percentage by the taxpayer's total parking expenses for the parking facility. The product is the amount of the deduction for total parking expenses that is disallowed under section 274(a)(4) for reserved employee spaces. There is no disallowance for reserved employee spaces if the following conditions are met:


(*i*) The primary use (as defined in paragraphs (b)(11) and (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section) of the available parking spaces is to provide parking to the general public;


(*ii*) There are five or fewer reserved employee spaces in the parking facility; and


(*iii*) The reserved employee spaces are 5 percent or less of the total parking spaces.


(*2*) *Step 2—Determine the primary use of available parking spaces.* A taxpayer must identify the available parking spaces in the parking facility and determine whether their primary use is to provide parking to the general public. If the primary use of the available parking spaces in the parking facility is to provide parking to the general public, then total parking expenses allocable to available parking spaces at the parking facility are excepted from the section 274(a)(4) disallowance by the general public exception under section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. Primary use of available parking spaces is based on the number of available parking spaces used by employees during the peak demand period.


(*3*) *Step 3—Calculate the allowance for reserved nonemployee spaces.* If the primary use of a taxpayer's available parking spaces is not to provide parking to the general public, the taxpayer must identify the number of available parking spaces in the parking facility, or the taxpayer's portion thereof, exclusively reserved for nonemployees. A taxpayer that has no reserved nonemployee spaces may proceed to Step 4 in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section. If the taxpayer has reserved nonemployee spaces, it may determine the percentage of reserved nonemployee spaces in relation to remaining total parking spaces and multiply that percentage by the taxpayer's remaining total parking expenses. The product is the amount of the deduction for remaining total parking expenses that is not disallowed because the spaces are not available for employee parking.


(*4*) *Step 4—Determine remaining use of available parking spaces and allocable expenses.* If a taxpayer completes Steps 1—3 in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section and has any remaining total parking expenses not specifically categorized as deductible or nondeductible, the taxpayer must reasonably allocate such expenses by determining the total number of available parking spaces used by employees during the peak demand period.


(C) *Cost per space methodology.* A taxpayer using the cost per space methodology in this paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) must calculate the disallowance of deductions for qualified transportation fringe parking expenses by multiplying the cost per space by the number of total parking spaces used by employees during the peak demand period. The product is the amount of the deduction for total parking expenses that is disallowed under section 274(a)(4). A taxpayer may calculate cost per space by dividing total parking expenses by total parking spaces. This calculation may be performed on a monthly basis. A taxpayer using this methodology may use the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section for determining total parking spaces.


(3) *Expenses for transportation in a commuter highway vehicle or transit pass.* If a taxpayer pays a third party an amount for its employees' commuter highway vehicle or a transit pass qualified transportation fringe, the section 274(a)(4) disallowance generally is equal to the taxpayer's total annual cost of employee commuter highway vehicle or a transit pass qualified transportation fringes paid to the third party. If a taxpayer provides transportation in a commuter highway vehicle or transit pass qualified transportation fringes in kind directly to its employees, the taxpayer must calculate the disallowance of deductions for expenses for such fringes based on a reasonable interpretation of section 274(a)(4). However, a taxpayer may not use the value of the qualified commuter highway vehicle or transit pass fringe to the employee to determine expenses allocable to such fringe because section 274(a)(4) disallows a deduction for the expense of providing a qualified transportation fringe, regardless of its value to the employee.


(e) *Specific exceptions to disallowance of deduction for qualified transportation fringe expenses*—(1) *In general.* The provisions of section 274(a)(4) and paragraph (a) of this section (imposing limitations on deductions for qualified transportation fringe expenses) are not applicable in the case of expenditures set forth in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Such expenditures are deductible to the extent allowable under chapter 1 of the Code. This paragraph (e) cannot be construed to affect whether a deduction under section 162 or 212 is allowed or allowable. The fact that an expenditure is not covered by a specific exception provided for in this paragraph (e) is not determinative of whether a deduction for the expenditure is disallowed under section 274(a)(4) and paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Exceptions to disallowance.* The expenditures referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are set forth in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) *Certain qualified transportation fringe expenses treated as compensation*—(A) *Expenses includible in income of persons who are employees and are not specified individuals.* In accordance with section 274(e)(2)(A), and except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section, an expense paid or incurred by a taxpayer for a qualified transportation fringe, if an employee who is not a specified individual is the recipient of the qualified transportation fringe, is not subject to the disallowance of deductions provided for in paragraph (a) of this section to the extent that the taxpayer—


(*1*) Properly treats the expense relating to the recipient of the qualified transportation fringe as compensation to an employee under chapter 1 and as wages to the employee for purposes of chapter 24; and


(*2*) Treats the proper amount as compensation to the employee under § 1.61-21.


(B) *Specified Individuals.* In accordance with section 274(e)(2)(B), in the case of a specified individual (as defined in section 274(e)(2)(B)(ii)), the disallowance of deductions provided for in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to an expense for a qualified transportation fringe of the specified individual to the extent that the amount of the expense does not exceed the sum of—


(*1*) The amount treated as compensation to the specified individual under chapter 1 and as wages to the specified individual for purposes of chapter 24; and


(*2*) Any amount the specified individual reimburses the taxpayer.


(C) *Expenses for which an amount is excluded from income or is less than the proper amount.* Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section, in the case of an expense paid or incurred by a taxpayer for a qualified transportation fringe for which an amount is wholly or partially excluded from a recipient's income under subtitle A of the Code (other than because the amount is reimbursed by the recipient), or for which an amount included in compensation and wages to an employee is less than the amount required to be included under § 1.61-21, the disallowance of deductions provided for in paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to the extent that the amount of the expense does not exceed the sum of—


(*1*) The amount treated as compensation to the recipient under chapter 1 and as wages to the recipient for purposes of chapter 24; and


(*2*) Any amount the recipient reimburses the taxpayer.


(ii) *Expenses for transportation in a commuter highway vehicle, transit pass, or parking made available to the public.* Under section 274(e)(7) and this paragraph (e)(2)(ii), any expense paid or incurred by a taxpayer for transportation in a commuter highway vehicle, a transit pass, or parking that otherwise qualifies as a qualified transportation fringe is not subject to the disallowance of deductions provided for in paragraph (a) of this section to the extent that such transportation, transit pass, or parking is made available to the general public. With respect to parking, this exception applies to the entire amount of the taxpayer's parking expense, less any expenses specifically attributable to employees (for example, expenses allocable to reserved employee spaces), if the primary use of the parking is by the general public. If the primary use of the parking is not by the general public, this exception applies only to the costs attributable to the parking used by the general public.


(iii) *Expenses for transportation in a commuter highway vehicle, transit pass, or parking sold to customers.* Under section 274(e)(8) and this paragraph (e)(2)(iii), any expense paid or incurred by a taxpayer for transportation in a commuter highway vehicle, a transit pass, or parking that otherwise qualifies as a qualified transportation fringe to the extent such transportation, transit pass, or parking is sold to customers in a bona fide transaction for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth, is not subject to the disallowance of deductions provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(iii), the term *customer* includes an employee of the taxpayer who purchases transportation in a commuter highway vehicle, a transit pass, or parking in a bona fide transaction for an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth. If in a bona fide transaction, the adequate and full consideration for qualified parking is zero, the exception in this paragraph (e)(2)(iii) applies even though the taxpayer does not actually sell the parking to its employees. To apply the exception in this case, the taxpayer bears the burden of proving that the fair market value of the qualified parking is zero. However, solely for purposes of this paragraph (e)(2)(iii), a taxpayer will be treated as satisfying this burden if the qualified parking is provided in a rural, industrial, or remote area in which no commercial parking is available and an individual other than an employee ordinarily would not pay to park in the parking facility.


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section related to parking expenses for qualified transportation fringes. For each example, unless otherwise stated, assume the parking expenses are otherwise deductible expenses paid or incurred during the 2020 taxable year; all or some portion of the expenses relate to a qualified transportation fringe under section 132(f); the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on an employee's exclusion is $270; the fair market value of the qualified parking is not $0; all taxpayers are calendar-year taxpayers; and the length of the 2020 taxable year is 12 months.


(1) *Example 1.* Taxpayer A pays B, a third party who owns a parking garage adjacent to A's place of business, $100 per month per parking space for each of A's 10 employees to park in B's garage, or $12,000 for parking in 2020 (($100 × 10) × 12 = $12,000). The $100 per month paid for each of A's 10 employees for parking is excludible from the employees' gross income under section 132(a)(5), and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable. Thus, the entire $12,000 is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance under paragraphs (a) and (d)(1) of this section.


(2) *Example 2.* (i) Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(1) of this section (*Example 1*), except A pays B $300 per month for each parking space, or $36,000 for parking for 2020 (($300 × 10) × 12 = $36,000). Of the $300 per month paid for parking for each of 10 employees, $270 is excludible under section 132(a)(5) for 2020 and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to this amount. A properly treats the excess amount of $30 ($300−$270) per employee per month as compensation and wages. Thus, $32,400 (($270 × 10) × 12 = $32,400) is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance under paragraphs (a) and (d)(1) of this section.


(ii) The excess amount of $30 per employee per month is not excludible under section 132(a)(5). As a result, the exceptions in section 274(e)(2) and paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section are applicable to this amount. Thus, $3,600 ($36,000−$32,400 = $3,600) is not subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance and remains deductible.


(3) *Example 3.* (i) Taxpayer C leases from a third party a parking facility that includes 200 parking spaces at a rate of $500 per space, per month in 2020. C's annual lease payment for the parking spaces is $1,200,000 ((200 × $500) × 12 = $1,200,000). The number of available parking spaces used by C's employees during the peak demand period is 200.


(ii) C uses the qualified parking limit methodology described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section to determine the disallowance under section 274(a)(4). Under this methodology, the section 274(a)(4) disallowance is calculated by multiplying the number of available parking spaces used by employees during the peak demand period, 200, the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion, $270, and 12, the number of months in the applicable taxable year. The amount subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance is $648,000 (200 × $270 × 12 = $648,000). This amount is excludible from C's employees' gross incomes under section 132(a)(5) and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to this amount. The excess $552,000 ($1,200,000−$648,000) for which C is not disallowed a deduction under 274(a)(4) is included in C's employees' gross incomes because it exceeds the section 132(f)(2) monthly per employee limitation on exclusion.


(4) *Example 4.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer D, a big box retailer, owns a surface parking facility adjacent to its store. D incurs $10,000 of total parking expenses for its store in the 2020 taxable year. D's parking facility has 510 spaces that are used by its customers, employees, and its fleet vehicles. None of D's parking spaces are reserved. The number of available parking spaces used by D's employees during the peak demand period is 50. Approximately 30 nonreserved parking spaces are empty during D's peak demand period. D's fleet vehicles occupy 10 parking spaces.


(ii) *Methodology.* D uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4).


(iii) *Step 1.* Because none of D's parking spaces are exclusively reserved for employees, there is no amount to be specifically allocated to reserved employee spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(iv) *Step 2.* D's number of available parking spaces is the total parking spaces reduced by the number of reserved employee spaces and inventory/unusable spaces or 500 (510−0−10 = 500). The number of available parking spaces used by D's employees during the peak demand period is 50. Of the 500 available parking spaces, 450 are used to provide parking to the general public, including the 30 empty nonreserved parking spaces that are treated as provided to the general public. The primary use of D's available parking spaces is to provide parking to the general public because 90% (450/500 = 90%) of the available parking spaces are used by the general public under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section. Because the primary use of the available parking spaces is to provide parking to the general public, the exception in section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section applies and none of the $10,000 of total parking expenses is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance.


(5) *Example 5.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer E, a manufacturer, owns a surface parking facility adjacent to its plant. E incurs $10,000 of total parking expenses in 2020. E's parking facility has 500 spaces that are used by its visitors and employees. E reserves 25 of these spaces for nonemployee visitors. The number of available parking spaces used by E's employees during the peak demand period is 400.


(ii) *Methodology.* E uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4).


(iii) *Step 1.* Because none of E's parking spaces are exclusively reserved for employees, there is no amount to be specifically allocated to reserved employee spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(iv) *Step 2.* The primary use of E's parking facility is not to provide parking to the general public because 80% (400/500 = 80%) of the available parking spaces are used by its employees. Thus, expenses allocable to those spaces are not excepted from the section 274(a) disallowance by section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section under the primary use test in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(v) *Step 3.* Because 5% (25/500 = 5%) of E's available parking spaces are reserved nonemployee spaces, up to $9,500 ($10,000 × 95% = $9,500) of E's total parking expenses are subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance under this step as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*) of this section. The remaining $500 ($10,000 × 5% = $500) of expenses allocable to reserved nonemployee spaces is excepted from the section 274(a) disallowance and continues to be deductible.


(vi) *Step 4.* E must reasonably determine the employee use of the remaining parking spaces by using the number of available parking spaces used by E's employees during the peak demand period and determine the expenses allocable to employee parking spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section.


(6) *Example 6.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer F, a manufacturer, owns a surface parking facility adjacent to its plant. F incurs $10,000 of total parking expenses in 2020. F's parking facility has 500 spaces that are used by its visitors and employees. F reserves 50 spaces for management. All other employees park in nonreserved spaces in F's parking facility; the number of available parking spaces used by F's employees during the peak demand period is 400. Additionally, F reserves 10 spaces for nonemployee visitors.


(ii) *Methodology.* F uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4).


(iii) *Step 1.* Because F reserved 50 spaces for management, $1,000 ((50/500) × $10,000 = $1,000) is the amount of total parking expenses that is nondeductible for reserved employee spaces under section 274(a)(4) and paragraphs (a) and (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section. None of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to this amount.


(iv) *Step 2.* The primary use of the remainder of F's parking facility is not to provide parking to the general public because 89% (400/450 = 89%) of the available parking spaces in the facility are used by its employees. Thus, expenses allocable to these spaces are not excepted from the section 274(a)(4) disallowance by section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section under the primary use test in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(v) *Step 3.* Because 2% (10/450 = 2.22%) of F's available parking spaces are reserved nonemployee spaces, the $180 allocable to those spaces (($10,000−$1,000) × 2%) is not subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance and continues to be deductible under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*) of this section.


(vi) *Step 4.* F must reasonably determine the employee use of the remaining parking spaces by using the number of available parking spaces used by F's employees during the peak demand period and determine the expenses allocable to employee parking spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section.


(7) *Example 7.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer G, a financial services institution, owns a multi-level parking garage adjacent to its office building. G incurs $10,000 of total parking expenses in 2020. G's parking garage has 1,000 spaces that are used by its visitors and employees. However, one floor of the parking garage is segregated by an electronic barrier that can only be accessed with a card provided by G to its employees. The segregated parking floor contains 100 spaces. The other floors of the parking garage are not used by employees for parking during the peak demand period.


(ii) *Methodology.* G uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4).


(iii) *Step 1.* Because G has 100 reserved spaces for employees, $1,000 ((100/1,000) × $10,000 = $1,000) is the amount of total parking expenses that is nondeductible for reserved employee spaces under section 274(a)(4) and paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section. None of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable to this amount.


(iv) *Step 2.* The primary use of the available parking spaces in G's parking facility is to provide parking to the general public because 100% (900/900 = 100%) of the available parking spaces are used by the public. Thus, expenses allocable to those spaces, $9,000, are excepted from the section 274(a)(4) disallowance by section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section under the primary use test in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*).


(8) *Example 8.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer H, an accounting firm, leases a parking facility adjacent to its office building. H incurs $10,000 of total parking expenses related to the lease payments in 2020. H's leased parking facility has 100 spaces that are used by its clients and employees. None of the parking spaces are reserved. The number of available parking spaces used by H's employees during the peak demand period is 60.


(ii) *Methodology.* H uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4).


(iii) *Step 1.* Because none of H's leased parking spaces are exclusively reserved for employees, there is no amount to be specifically allocated to reserved employee spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(iv) *Step 2.* The primary use of H's leased parking facility under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section is not to provide parking to the general public because 60% (60/100 = 60%) of the lot is used by its employees. Thus, H may not utilize the general public exception from the section 274(a)(4) disallowance provided by section 274(e)(7) and paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(v) *Step 3.* Because none of H's parking spaces are exclusively reserved for nonemployees, there is no amount to be specifically allocated to reserved nonemployee spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*) of this section.


(vi) *Step 4.* H must reasonably determine the use of the parking spaces and the related expenses allocable to employee parking. Because the number of available parking spaces used by H's employees during the peak demand period is 60, H reasonably determines that 60% (60/100 = 60%) of H's total parking expenses or $6,000 ($10,000 × 60% = $6,000) is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section.


(9) *Example 9.* (i) *Facts.* Taxpayer I, a large manufacturer, owns multiple parking facilities adjacent to its manufacturing plant, warehouse, and office building at its complex in the city of X. All of I's tracts or parcels of land at its complex in city X are located in a single geographic location. I owns parking facilities in other cities. I incurs $50,000 of total parking expenses related to the parking facilities at its complex in city X in 2020. I's parking facilities at its complex in city X have 10,000 total parking spaces that are used by its visitors and employees of which 500 are reserved for management. All other spaces at parking facilities in I's complex in city X are nonreserved. The number of nonreserved spaces used by I's employees other than management during the peak demand period at I's parking facilities in city X is 8,000.


(ii) *Methodology.* I uses the primary use methodology in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4). I chooses to apply the aggregation rule in paragraph (c) of this section to aggregate all parking facilities in the geographic location that comprises its complex in city X. However, I may not aggregate parking facilities in other cities with its parking facilities in city X because they are in different geographic locations.


(iii) *Step 1.* Because 500 spaces are reserved for management, $2,500 ((500/10,000) × $50,000 = $2,500) is the amount of total parking expenses that is nondeductible for reserved employee spaces for I's parking facilities in city X under section 274(a)(4) and paragraphs (a) and (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section.


(iv) *Step 2.* The primary use of the remainder of I's parking facility is not to provide parking to the general public because 84% (8,000/9,500 = 84%) of the available parking spaces in the facility are used by its employees. Thus, expenses allocable to these spaces are not excepted from the section 274(a)(4) disallowance by section 274(e)(7) or paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section under the primary use test in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) of this section.


(v) *Step 3.* Because none of I's parking spaces in its parking facilities in city X are exclusively reserved for nonemployees, there is no amount to be specifically allocated to reserved nonemployee spaces under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*3*) of this section.


(vi) *Step 4.* I must reasonably determine the use of the remaining parking spaces and the related expenses allocable to employee parking for its parking facilities in city X. Because the number of available parking spaces used by I's employees during the peak demand period in city X during an average workday is 8,000, I reasonably determines that 84.2% (8,000/9,500 = 84.2%) of I's remaining parking expense or $39,900 (($50,000−$2,500) × 84% = $39,900) is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance under paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B)(*4*) of this section.


(10) *Example 10.* (i) Taxpayer J, a manufacturer, owns a parking facility and incurs the following mixed parking expenses (along with other parking expenses): Property taxes, utilities, insurance, security expenses, and snow removal expenses. In accordance with paragraph (b)(12)(i) and (ii) of this section, J determines its total parking expenses by allocating 5% of its property tax, utilities, and insurance expenses to its parking facility. J uses a reasonable methodology to allocate to its parking facility an applicable portion of its security and snow removal expenses. J determines that it incurred $100,000 of total parking expenses in 2020. J's parking facility has 500 spaces that are used by its visitors and employees. The number of total parking spaces used by J's employees during the peak demand period is 475.


(ii) J uses the cost per space methodology described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(C) of this section to determine the amount of parking expenses that are disallowed under section 274(a)(4). Under this methodology, J multiplies the cost per space by the number of total parking spaces used by J's employees during the peak demand period. J calculates the cost per space by dividing total parking expenses by the number of total parking spaces ($100,000/500 = $200). J determines that $95,000 ($200 × 475 = $95,000) of J's total parking expenses is subject to the section 274(a)(4) disallowance and none of the exceptions in section 274(e) or paragraph (e) of this section are applicable.


(11) *Example 11.* Taxpayer K operates an industrial plant with a parking facility in a rural area in which no commercial parking is available. K provides qualified parking at the plant to its employees free of charge. Further, an individual other than an employee ordinarily would not consider paying any amount to park in the plant's parking facility. Although K does not charge its employees for the qualified parking, the exception in section 274(e)(8) and this paragraph (e)(3)(iii) will apply to K's total parking expenses if in a bona fide transaction, the adequate and full consideration for the qualified parking is zero. In order to treat the adequate and full consideration as zero, K bears the burden of proving that the parking has no objective value. K is treated as satisfying this burden because the parking is provided in a rural area in which no commercial parking is available and in which an individual other than an employee ordinarily would not consider paying any amount to park in the parking facility. Therefore, the exception in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section applies to K's total parking expenses and a deduction for the expenses is not disallowed by reason of section 274(a)(4).


(g) *Applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after December 16, 2020. However, taxpayers may choose to apply § 1.274-13(b)(14)(ii) to taxable years ending after December 31, 2019.



---

[N] [T.D. 9939, 85 FR 81402, Dec. 16, 2020, as amended by 86 FR 22345, Apr. 28, 2021]




