# ยง 9301.7   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Commercial use request* means a request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the requester's or other person's commercial, trade, or profit interests.


(b) *Direct costs* means those costs incurred in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) documents to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, salaries of employees who perform the work and costs of conducting large-scale computer searches.


(c) *Duplicate* means to copy records to respond to a FOIA request. Copies can take the form of paper, audio-visual materials, or electronic records, among others.


(d) *Educational institution* means a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, that operates a program or programs of scholarly research.


(e) *Fee category* means one of the three categories that agencies place requesters in for the purpose of determining whether a requester will be charged fees for search, review and duplication.


(f) *Fee waiver* means the waiver or reduction of processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied.


(g) *Non-commercial scientific institution* means an institution that is not operated on a commercial basis and that operates solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.


(h) *Representative of the news media* means any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience.


(i) *Review* means to examine a record to determine whether any portion of the record may be withheld and to process a record for disclosure, including by redacting it.


(j) *Search for* means look for and retrieve records covered by a FOIA request, including by looking page-by-page or line-by-line to identify responsive material within individual records.



---

[N] [77 FR 38172, June 27, 2012]




