# § 64.2500   Prohibited agreements and required disclosures.

(a) No common carrier shall enter into any contract, written or oral, that would in any way restrict the right of any commercial multiunit premises owner, or any agent or representative thereof, to permit any other common carrier to access and serve commercial tenants on that premises.


(b) No common carrier shall enter into or enforce any contract, written or oral, that would in any way restrict the right of any residential multiunit premises owner, or any agent or representative thereof, to permit any other common carrier to access and serve residential tenants on that premises.




(c) No common carrier shall enter into or enforce any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it gives the multiunit premise owner compensation on a graduated basis.


(1) *Definition.* For purposes of this paragraph (c), a “graduated basis” means that the compensation a common carrier pays to a multiunit premise owner for each tenant served increases as the total number of tenants served by the common carrier in the multiunit premise increases.


(2) *Compliance dates*—(i) *Compliance date for new contracts.* After April 27, 2022, no common carrier shall enter into any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it gives the multiunit premise owner compensation on a graduated basis.


(ii) *Compliance date for existing contracts.* After September 26, 2022, no common carrier shall enforce any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in existence as of April 27, 2022, in which it gives the multiunit premise owner compensation on a graduated basis.


(d) No common carrier shall enter into or enforce any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it receives the exclusive right to provide the multiunit premise owner compensation in return for access to the multiunit premise and its tenants.


(1) *Compliance date for new contracts.* After April 27, 2022, no common carrier shall enter into any contract, written or oral, in which it receives the exclusive right to provide the multiunit premise owner compensation in return for access to the multiunit premise and its tenants.


(2) *Compliance date for existing contracts.* After September 26, 2022, no common carrier shall enforce any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise written or oral, in existence as of April 27, 2022, in which it receives the exclusive right to provide the multiunit premise owner compensation in return for access to the multiunit premise and its tenants.


(e) A common carrier shall disclose the existence of any contract regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it receives the exclusive right to market its service to tenants of a multiunit premise.


(1) Such disclosure must:


(i) Be included on all written marketing material, whether electronic or in print, that is directed at tenants or prospective tenants of the affected multiunit premise;


(ii) Identify the existence of the contract and include a plain-language description of the arrangement, including that the provider has the right to exclusively market its communications services to tenants in the multiunit premise, that such a right does not mean that the provider is the only entity that can provide such services to tenants in the multiunit premise, and that service from an alternative provider may be available; and


(iii) Be made in a manner that it is clear, conspicuous, and legible.


(2)(i) *Compliance date for new contracts.* After August 22, 2022, a common carrier shall disclose the existence of any contract entered into on or after April 27, 2022, regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it receives the exclusive right to market its service to tenants of a multiunit premise.




(ii) *Compliance date for existing contracts.* After September 26, 2022, a common carrier shall disclose the existence of any contract in existence as of April 27, 2022, regarding the provision of communications service in a multiunit premise, written or oral, in which it receives the exclusive right to market its service to tenants of a multiunit premise.



---

[N] [73 FR 28057, May 15, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 17193, Mar. 28, 2022; 87 FR 51268, Aug. 22, 2022]




