# § 133.185   Samsoe cheese.

(a) *Description.* (1) Samsoe cheese is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. It has a small amount of eye formation of approximately uniform size of about five-sixteenths inch (8 millimeters). The minimum milkfat content is 45 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 41 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in § 133.5. The dairy ingredients used may be pasteurized. Samsoe cheese is cured at not less than 35 °F for at least 60 days.


(2) If pasteurized dairy ingredients are used, the phenol equivalent value of 0.25 gram of samsoe cheese is not more than 3 micrograms as determined by the method described in § 133.5.


(3) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. After coagulation the mass is cut into small cube-shaped pieces with sides approximately three-eighths inch (1 centimeter). The mass is stirred and heated to about 102 °F, and so handled by further stirring, heating, dilution with water, and salting as to promote and regulate the separation of curd and whey. When the desired curd is obtained, it is transferred to forms permitting drainage of whey. During drainage, the curd is pressed. After drainage, the curd is removed from the forms and is further salted by immersing in a concentrated salt solution for about 3 days. The curd is then cured at a temperature of from 60° to 70 °F for 3 to 5 weeks to obtain the desired eye formation. Further curing is conducted at a lower temperature. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) *Dairy ingredients.* Milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in § 133.3, used alone or in combination.


(2) *Clotting enzymes.* Rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin.


(3) *Other optional ingredients.* (i) Coloring.


(ii) Calcium chloride in an amount not more than 0.02 percent (calculated as anhydrous calcium chloride) by weight of the dairy ingredients, used as a coagulation aid.


(iii) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development.


(iv) Antimycotic agents, applied to the surface of slices or cuts in consumer-sized packages.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “samsoe cheese”.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(1) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as “enzymes”; and


(2) The dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms “milkfat and nonfat milk” or “nonfat milk and milkfat”, as appropriate.



---

[N] [48 FR 2745, Jan. 21, 1983; 48 FR 11426, Mar. 18, 1983, as amended at 58 FR 2895, Jan. 6, 1993]




