# § 660.330   Open access fishery—management measures.

(a) *General.* Groundfish species taken in open access fisheries will be managed with cumulative trip limits (see trip limits in tables 3b (North) and 3b (South) of this subpart), size limits (see § 660.60(h)(5)), seasons (see seasons in tables 3a (North) and 3a (South) of this subpart), gear restrictions (see paragraph (b) of this section), and closed areas (see paragraph (d) of this section and §§ 660.70 through 660.79). Unless otherwise specified, a vessel operating in the open access fishery is subject to, and must not exceed, any trip limit, frequency limit, and/or size limit for the open access fishery. Retention of cowcod, yelloweye rockfish, and quillback rockfish off California is prohibited in all fisheries, and groundfish vessels operating south of Point Conception must adhere to GEA restrictions (see paragraph (d)(18) of this section and § 660.70). For information on the open access daily/weekly trip limit fishery for sablefish, see § 660.332 and the trip limits in tables 3b (North) and 3b (South) of this subpart. Open access vessels are subject to daily or weekly sablefish limits in addition to cumulative limits for each cumulative limit period. Only one sablefish landing per week may be made in excess of the daily trip limit and, if the vessel chooses to make a landing in excess of that daily trip limit, then that is the only sablefish landing permitted for that week. The trip limit for black rockfish caught with hook-and-line gear also applies (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(b) *Gear restrictions.* Open access gear includes longline, trap, pot, hook-and-line (fixed or mobile), setnet (anchored gillnet or trammel net, which are permissible south of 38° N. lat. only), spear and non-groundfish trawl gear (trawls used to target non-groundfish species: pink shrimp or ridgeback prawns, and, south of Pt. Arena, CA (38°57.50' N. lat.), California halibut or sea cucumbers). Restrictions for gears used in the open access fisheries are as follows:


(1) *Non-groundfish trawl gear.* Non-groundfish trawl gear is generally trawl gear used to target pink shrimp, ridgeback prawn, California halibut and sea cucumber and is exempt from the limited entry trawl gear restrictions at § 660.130(b). The following gear restrictions apply to non-groundfish trawl gear:


(i) Bottom trawl gear with a footrope diameter greater than 19 inches (48 cm) (including rollers, bobbins, or other material encircling or tied along the length of the footrope) is prohibited anywhere in EFH within the EEZ, as defined by latitude/longitude coordinates at § 660.75. unless such gear is the gear of another vessel that has been retrieved at sea and made inoperable or stowed in a manner not capable of being fished. The disposal at sea of such gear is prohibited by Annex V of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973 (Annex V of MARPOL 73/78).


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *Fixed gear.* (i) Fixed gear (longline, trap or pot, set net and stationary hook-and-line gear, including commercial vertical hook-and-line gear) must be attended at least once every 7 days. Vessels fishing with bottom longline and snap gears as defined at § 660.11 are subject to the requirements of the Seabird Avoidance Program described in § 660.21.


(ii) *Set nets.* Fishing for groundfish with set nets is prohibited in the fishery management area north of 38°00.00' N. lat.


(iii) *Traps or pots.* Traps must have biodegradable escape panels constructed with 21 or smaller untreated cotton twine in such a manner that an opening at least 8 inches (20.3 cm) in diameter results when the twine deteriorates.


(iv) *Spears.* Spears may be propelled by hand or by mechanical means.


(3) *Gear for use inside the Non-Trawl RCA.* Inside the Non-Trawl RCA, only legal non-bottom contact hook-and-line gear configurations may be used for target fishing for groundfish by vessels that participate in the directed open access sector as defined at § 660.11. Vessels must be registered to a valid directed open access permit as defined at § 660.25(i). On a fishing trip where any fishing will occur inside the Non-Trawl RCA, only one type of legal non-bottom contact gear may be carried on board, and no other fishing gear of any type may be carried on board or stowed during that trip. The vessel may fish inside and outside the Non-Trawl RCA on the same fishing trip, provided a valid declaration report as required at § 660.13(d) has been filed with NMFS OLE. Legal non-bottom contact hook-and-line gear means stationary vertical jig gear not anchored to the bottom, and groundfish troll gear, subject to the specifications in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) *Stationary vertical jig gear.* The following requirements apply to stationary vertical jig gear:


(A) Must be a minimum of 30 feet (9 m) between the bottom weight and the lowest fishing hook;


(B) No more than four vertical mainlines attached to or fished from the vessel (*e.g.,* rod & reel) may be used in the water at one time.


(C) No more than 100 hooks may be in the water at one time, with no more than 25 extra hooks on board the vessel.


(ii) *Groundfish troll gear.* The following requirements apply to groundfish troll gear:


(A) Must be a minimum of 50 feet between the bottom weight and the troll wire's connection to the horizontal mainline;


(B) No more than one mainline attached to or fished from the vessel may be used in the water at one time;


(C) No more than 500 hooks may be in the water at one time, with no more than 25 extra hooks on board the vessel;


(D) Hooks must be spaced apart by a visible maker (e.g., floats, line wraps, colored line splices), with no more than 25 hooks between each marker and no more than 20 markers on the mainline; and


(E) Natural bait or weighted hooks may not be used nor be on board the vessel. Artificial lures and flies are permitted.


(c) *Sorting requirements.* (1) In addition to the requirements at § 660.12(a)(8) the States of Washington, Oregon, and California may also require that vessels record their landings as sorted on their state landing receipts.


(2) For open access vessels, the following species must be sorted:


(i) *Coastwide*—arrowtooth flounder, big skate, black rockfish, blue/deacon rockfish, canary rockfish, darkblotched rockfish, Dover sole, English sole, lingcod, longnose skate, longspine thornyhead, minor nearshore rockfish, minor shelf rockfish, minor slope rockfish, other fish, other flatfish, Pacific cod, Pacific sanddabs, Pacific whiting, petrale sole, shortbelly rockfish, shortraker rockfish, rougheye/blackspotted rockfish, sablefish, shortspine thornyhead, spiny dogfish, starry flounder, widow rockfish, and yelloweye rockfish;


(ii) *North of 40°10′ N lat.*—cabezon (California), copper rockfish (California), Oregon cabezon/kelp greenling complex, POP, quillback rockfish (California), Washington cabezon/kelp greenling complex, yellowtail rockfish; and


(iii) *South of 40°10′ N lat.*—blackgill rockfish, bocaccio, bronzespotted rockfish, cabezon, chilipepper rockfish, copper rockfish, cowcod, minor shallow nearshore rockfish, minor deeper nearshore rockfish, quillback rockfish, splitnose rockfish, and vermilion rockfish.


(d) *Groundfish conservation areas (GCAs).* GCAs, a type of closed area, are defined at § 660.11 and with latitude and longitude coordinates at §§ 660.70 through 660.74. A vessel that is authorized by this paragraph to fish within a GCA (*e.g.,* fishing for “other flatfish” using hook and line gear only), may not simultaneously have other gear on board the vessel that is unlawful to use for fishing within the GCA. The following GCAs apply to vessels participating in the open access groundfish fishery.


(1) *North coast recreational yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the North Coast Recreational Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA) boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. The North Coast Recreational YRCA is designated as an area to be avoided (a voluntary closure) by commercial fixed gear fishers.


(2) *North coast commercial yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the North Coast Commercial Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA) boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the North Coast Commercial YRCA. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the North Coast Commercial YRCA. Open access vessels may transit through the North Coast Commercial YRCA with or without groundfish on board.


(3) *South coast recreational yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the South Coast Recreational Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA) boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. The South Coast Recreational YRCA is designated as an area to be avoided (a voluntary closure) by commercial fixed gear fishers.


(4) *Westport offshore recreational YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates that define the Westport Offshore Recreational YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. The Westport Offshore Recreational YRCA is designated as an area to be avoided (a voluntary closure) by commercial fixed gear fishers.


(5) *Tillamook YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Tillamook YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Tillamook YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Tillamook YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access vessels may transit through the Tillamook YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(6) *Newport YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Newport YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Newport YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Newport YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access vessels may transit through the Newport YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(7) *Florence YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Florence YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Florence YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Florence YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access vessels may transit through the Florence YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(8) *Heceta Bank YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Heceta Bank YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Heceta Bank YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Heceta Bank YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access vessels may transit through the Heceta Bank YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(9) *Point St. George YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Point St. George YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Point St. George YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Point St. George YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access vessels may transit through the Point St. George YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(10) *South Reef YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the South Reef YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the South Reef YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the South Reef YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access gear vessels may transit through the South Reef YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(11) *Reading Rock YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Reading Rock YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Reading Rock YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Reading Rock YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access gear vessels may transit through the Reading Rock YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(12) *Point Delgada (North) YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Point Delgada (North) YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Point Delgada (North) YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Point Delgada (North) YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access gear vessels may transit through the Point Delgada (North) YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(13) *Point Delgada (South) YRCA.* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Point Delgada (South) YRCA boundaries are specified at § 660.70, subpart C. Fishing with open access gear is prohibited within the Point Delgada (South) YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with open access gear within the Point Delgada (South) YRCA, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment. Open access gear vessels may transit through the Point Delgada (South) YRCA, at any time, with or without groundfish on board.


(14) *Salmon Troll Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA).* The latitude and longitude coordinates of the Salmon Troll YRCA boundaries are specified in the groundfish regulations at § 660.70, subpart C, and in the salmon regulations at § 660.405. Fishing with salmon troll gear is prohibited within the Salmon Troll YRCA. It is unlawful for commercial salmon troll vessels to take and retain, possess, or land fish taken with salmon troll gear within the Salmon Troll YRCA. Open access vessels may transit through the Salmon Troll YRCA with or without fish on board.


(15) *Nontrawl rockfish conservation area for the open access fisheries.* The Non-Trawl RCA is defined at § 660.11 and with latitude and longitude coordinates, at §§ 660.70 through 660.74 or the EEZ, where fishing for groundfish with non-trawl gear is prohibited. Boundaries for the Non-Trawl RCA throughout the year are provided in the header to Table 3 (North) and Table 3 (South) of this subpart and may be modified by NMFS inseason pursuant to § 660.60(c).


(i) It is unlawful to operate a vessel in the Non-Trawl RCA that has non-trawl gear onboard and is not registered to a limited entry permit on a trip in which the vessel is used to take and retain or possess groundfish in the EEZ, or land groundfish taken in the EEZ, except for the purpose of continuous transiting, or when the use of non-trawl gear is authorized in part 660.


(ii) On any trip on which a groundfish species is taken with non-trawl open access gear and retained, the open access non-trawl vessel may transit through the Non-Trawl RCA only if all groundfish non-trawl gear is stowed either: Below deck; or if the gear cannot readily be moved, in a secured and covered manner, detached from all lines, so that it is rendered unusable for fishing.


(iii) The Non-Trawl RCA restrictions in this section apply to vessels taking and retaining or possessing groundfish in the EEZ, or landing groundfish taken in the EEZ. Unless otherwise authorized by part 660, a vessel may not retain any groundfish taken on a fishing trip for species other than groundfish that occurs within the Non-Trawl RCA. If a vessel fishes in a non-groundfish fishery in the Non-Trawl RCA, it may not participate in any fishing for groundfish on that trip that is prohibited within the Non-Trawl RCA. [For example, if a vessel fishes in the salmon troll fishery within the RCA, the vessel cannot on the same trip fish in the sablefish fishery outside of the RCA.]


(iv) Fishing for “other flatfish” off California (between 42° N lat. south to the U.S./Mexico border) is allowed within the Non-Trawl RCA with hook and line gear only; and provided a valid declaration report as required at § 660.13(d), has been filed with NMFS OLE.


(v) Target fishing for groundfish off Oregon and California (between 46°16′ N lat. and the U.S./Mexico border) is allowed within the Non-Trawl RCA for vessels participating in the directed open access sector as defined at § 660.11, subject to the gear restrictions at § 660.330(b)(3)(i-ii), and provided a valid declaration report as required at § 660.13(d) has been filed with NMFS OLE.


(16) *Non-groundfish trawl rockfish conservation areas for the open access non-groundfish trawl fisheries.* The non-groundfish trawl RCAs are closed areas, defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates (specified at §§ 660.70 through 660.74, subpart C) designed to approximate specific depth contours, where fishing for groundfish with non-trawl gear is prohibited. Boundaries for the Non-Trawl RCA throughout the year are provided in the open access trip limit tables, Table 3 (North) and Table 3 (South) of this subpart and may be modified by NMFS in season pursuant to § 660.60(c).


(i) It is unlawful to operate a vessel in the non-groundfish trawl RCA with non-groundfish trawl gear onboard, except for the purpose of continuous transiting, or when the use of trawl gear is authorized in part 660. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with non-groundfish trawl gear within the Non-Trawl RCA, unless otherwise authorized in part 660.


(ii) Non-groundfish trawl vessels may transit through the non-groundfish trawl RCA, with or without groundfish on board, provided all non-groundfish trawl gear is stowed either: Below deck; or if the gear cannot readily be moved, in a secured and covered manner, detached from all towing lines, so that it is rendered unusable for fishing; or remaining on deck uncovered if the trawl doors are hung from their stanchions and the net is disconnected from the doors.


(iii) The non-groundfish trawl RCA restrictions in this section apply to vessels taking and retaining or possessing groundfish in the EEZ, or landing groundfish taken in the EEZ. Unless otherwise authorized by part 660, it is unlawful for a vessel to retain any groundfish taken on a fishing trip for species other than groundfish that occurs within the non-groundfish trawl RCA. If a vessel fishes in a non-groundfish fishery in the non-groundfish trawl RCA, it may not participate in any fishing on that trip that is prohibited within the non-groundfish trawl RCA. Nothing in these Federal regulations supersedes any state regulations that may prohibit trawling shoreward of the fishery management area (3-200 nm).


(iv) It is lawful to fish with non-groundfish trawl gear within the non-groundfish trawl RCA only under the following conditions:


(A) Pink shrimp trawling is permitted in the non-groundfish trawl RCA when a valid declaration report as required at § 660.12(d), subpart C, has been filed with NMFS OLE. Groundfish caught with pink shrimp trawl gear may be retained anywhere in the EEZ and are subject to the limits in Table 3 (North) and Table 3 (South) of this subpart.


(B) When the shoreward line of the trawl RCA is shallower than 100 fm (183 m), vessels using ridgeback prawn trawl gear south of 34°27.00′ N lat. may operate out to the 100 fm (183 m) boundary line specified at § 660.73, when a valid declaration report as required at § 660.13(d), has been filed with NMFS OLE. Groundfish caught with ridgeback prawn trawl gear are subject to the limits in Table 3 (North) and Table 3 (South) of this subpart.


(17) *Cordell Bank.* Commercial fishing for groundfish is prohibited in waters of depths less than 100-fm (183-m) around Cordell Bank, as defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C. An exception to this prohibition is that commercial fishing for “other flatfish” is allowed around Cordell Bank using hook and line gear only.


(18) *Groundfish exclusion areas (GEAs).* The GEAs are closed areas in the Southern California Bight, defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates (specified at § 660.70) where commercial and recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited. It is unlawful to fish for, take and retain, possess (except for the purpose of continuous transit) or land groundfish within the GEAs. All fishing gear for targeting groundfish must be stowed while transiting through a GEA. If fishing for non-groundfish species within a GEA, then no groundfish may be on board the vessel.


(e) *Black rockfish fishery management.* The trip limit for black rockfish (*Sebastes melanops*) for commercial fishing vessels using hook-and-line gear between the U.S.-Canada border and Cape Alava (48°09.50′ N. lat.), and between Destruction Island (47°40′ N. lat.) and Leadbetter Point (46°38.17′ N. lat.), is 100-lbs (45 kg) or 30 percent, by weight of all fish on board, whichever is greater, per vessel per fishing trip. These per trip limits apply to limited entry and open access fisheries, in conjunction with the cumulative trip limits and other management measures in §§ 660.230 and 660.330. The crossover provisions in § 660.60(h)(7), do not apply to the black rockfish per-trip limits.


(f) *Salmon bycatch.* This fishery may be closed through automatic action at § 660.60(d)(1)(v) and (vi).


(g) *Essential fish habitat conservation areas (EFHCA).* EFHCAs, defined at § 660.11 and with latitude and longitude coordinates at §§ 660.75 through 660.79, apply to vessels using bottom trawl gear or bottom contact gear, defined at § 660.11, and includes non-groundfish trawl gear and limited entry fixed gear (*e.g.,* longline and pot/trap,) among other gear types. EFHCAs closed to bottom contact gear are listed at § 660.12(a). EFHCAs closed to bottom trawl gear are listed at § 660.312(d).



---

[N] [75 FR 60897, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 27554, May 11, 2011; 76 FR 53839, Aug. 30, 2011; 78 FR 638, Jan. 3, 2013; 80 FR 12597, Mar. 10, 2015; 80 FR 71981, Nov. 18, 2015; 82 FR 9665, Feb. 7, 2017; 82 FR 60570, Dec. 21, 2017; 83 FR 64010, Dec. 12, 2018; 84 FR 49962, Sept. 24, 2019; 84 FR 63992, Nov. 19, 2019; 86 FR 14383, Mar. 16, 2021; 87 FR 77029, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 12868, Mar. 1, 2023; 88 FR 83853, Dec. 1, 2023; 89 FR 101522, 101538, Dec. 16, 2024]




