# ยง 210.37   Evidence.

(a) *Burden of proof.* The proponent of any factual proposition shall be required to sustain the burden of proof with respect thereto. 


(b) *Admissibility.* Relevant, material, and reliable evidence shall be admitted. Irrelevant, immaterial, unreliable, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. Immaterial or irrelevant parts of an admissible document shall be segregated and excluded as far as practicable. 


(c) *Information obtained in investigations.* Any documents, papers, books, physical exhibits, or other materials or information obtained by the Commission under any of its powers may be disclosed by the Commission investigative attorney when necessary in connection with investigations and may be offered in evidence by the Commission investigative attorney. 


(d) *Official notice.* When any decision of the administrative law judge rests, in whole or in part, upon the taking of official notice of a material fact not appearing in evidence of record, opportunity to disprove such noticed fact shall be granted any party making timely motion therefor. 


(e) *Objections.* Objections to evidence shall be made in timely fashion and shall briefly state the grounds relied upon. Rulings on all objections shall appear on the record. 


(f) *Exceptions.* Formal exception to an adverse ruling is not required. 




(g) *Excluded evidence.* When an objection to a question propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining party may make a specific offer of what that party expects to prove by the answer of the witness, or the administrative law judge may as a matter of discretion receive and report the evidence in full. Rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, shall be retained with the record so as to be available for consideration by any reviewing authority.





---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 90 FR 245, Jan. 3, 2025]




