# ยง 27.1414   Relocation Payment Clearinghouse.

A Relocation Payment Clearinghouse shall be selected and serve to administer the cost-related aspects of the transition in a fair, transparent manner, pursuant to Commission rules and oversight, to mitigate financial disputes among stakeholders, and to collect and distribute payments in a timely manner for the transition of the 3700-4000 MHz band to the 3.7 GHz Service.


(a) *Selection process.* (1) A search committee will select the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse. The search committee shall consist of member appointed by each of following nine entities: ACA Connects, Intelsat, SES, Eutelsat S.A., National Association Broadcasters, National Cable Television Association, CTIA, Competitive Carriers Association, and WISPA.


(2) The search committee shall convene no later than June 22, 2020 and shall notify the Commission of the detailed selection criteria for the position of Relocation Payment Clearinghouse no later than June 1, 2020. Such criteria must be consistent with the qualifications, roles, and duties of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse specified in this subpart. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (Bureau) is directed, on delegated authority, to issue a Public Notice notifying the public that the search committee has published criteria, outlining submission requirements, and providing the closing dates for the selection of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse and source (*i.e.,* web page).


(3) The search committee should proceed by consensus; however, if a vote on selection of a Relocation Payment Clearinghouse is required, it shall be by a majority.


(4) In the event that the search committee fails to select a Relocation Payment Clearinghouse and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, the search committee will be dissolved without further action by the Commission. In the event that the search committee fails to select a Clearinghouse and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, two of the nine members of the search committee will be dropped therefrom by lot, and the remaining seven members of the search committee shall select a Clearinghouse by majority vote by August 14, 2020.


(5) During the course of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's tenure, the Commission will take such measures as are necessary to ensure timely compliance, including, should it become necessary, issuing subsequent public notices to select new Relocation Payment Clearinghouses(s).


(b) *Selection criteria.* (1) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must be a neutral, independent entity with no conflicts of interest (organizational or personal) on the part of the organization or its officers, directors, employees, contractors, or significant subcontractors.


(i) Organizational conflicts of interest means that because of other activities or relationships with other entities, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse, its contractors, or significant subcontractors are unable or potentially unable to render impartial services, assistance or advice; the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's objectivity in performing its function is or might be otherwise impaired; or the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse might gain an unfair competitive advantage.


(ii) Personal conflict of interest means a situation in which an employee, officer, or director of the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's contractors or significant subcontractors has a financial interest, personal activity, or relationship that could impair that person's ability to act impartially and in the best interest of the transition when performing their assigned role, or is engaged in self-dealing.


(2) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must be able to demonstrate that it has the requisite expertise to perform the duties required, which will include collecting and distributing relocation and accelerated relocation payments, auditing incoming and outgoing estimates, mitigating cost disputes among parties, and generally acting as clearinghouse.


(3) The search committee should ensure that the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse meets relevant best practices and standards in its operation to ensure an effective and efficient transition. First, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse should be required, in administering the transition, to:


(i) Engage in strategic planning and adopt goals and metrics to evaluate its performance;


(ii) Adopt internal controls for its operations;


(iii) Utilize enterprise risk management practices; and


(iv) Use best practices to protect against improper payments and to prevent fraud, waste and abuse in its handling of funds. The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must be required to create written procedures for its operations, using the Government Accountability Office's Green Book to serve as a guide in satisfying such requirements.


(4) The search committee must also ensure that the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse adopts robust privacy and data security best practices in its operations, given that it will receive and process information critical to ensuring a successful and expeditious transition.


(i) When the prohibition in ยง 1.2105(c) of this chapter applies to competitive bidding for licenses in the 3.7 GHz service, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must make real time disclosures of the content and timing of and the parties to communications, if any, from or to applicants to participate in the competitive bidding, as defined by ยง 1.2105(c)(5)(i) of this chapter.


(ii) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse should also comply with, on an ongoing basis, all applicable laws and Federal Government guidance on privacy and information security requirements such as relevant provisions in the Federal Information Security Management Act, National Institute of Standards and Technology publications, and Office of Management and Budget guidance.


(iii) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must hire a third-party firm to independently audit and verify, on an annual basis, the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's compliance with privacy and information security requirements and to provide recommendations based on any audit findings; to correct any negative audit findings and adopt any additional practices suggested by the auditor; and to report the results to the Bureau.


(c) *Reports and information.* (1) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse must provide quarterly reports that detail the status of reimbursement funds available for clearing obligations, the relocation and accelerated relocation payments issued, the amounts collected from overlay licensees, and any certifications filed by incumbents. The reports must account for all funds spent to transition the 3.7 GHz Service Band, including the Relocation Payment Clearinghouse's own expenses, *e.g.,* salaries and fees paid to law firms, accounting firms, and other consultants. The report shall include descriptions of any disputes and the manner in which they were resolved.


(2) The Relocation Payment Clearinghouse shall provide to the Office of the Managing Director and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, by March 1 of each year, an audited statement of funds expended to date, including salaries and expenses of the Clearinghouse.


(3) The Relocation Clearing House shall provide to the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau additional information upon request.




