# § 63.1103   Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.

(a) *Acetal resins production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the acetal resins production source category (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that are associated with an acetal resins production process unit located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Clean Air Act (Act).


(A) All storage vessels that store liquids containing organic HAP. For purposes of regulation, surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that are located as part of the process train prior to the polymer reactor are to be regulated under the front-end process vent provisions.


(B) All process vents from continuous unit operations (front end process vents and back end process vents).


(C) All wastewater streams associated with the acetal resins production process unit as defined in (a)(2) of this section.


(D) Equipment (as defined in § 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts organic HAP.


(ii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule for affected sources as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is specified in § 63.1102(a).


(2) *Definitions.*

*Acetal resins production* means the production of homopolymers and/or copolymers of alternating oxymethylene units. Acetal resins are also known as polyoxymethylenes, polyacetals, and aldehyde resins. Acetal resins are generally produced by polymerizing formaldehyde (HCHO) with the methylene functional group (CH_2_) and are characterized by repeating oxymethylene units (CH_2_O) in the polymer backbone.


*Back end process vent* means any process vent from a continuous unit operation that is not a front end process vent up to the final separation of raw materials and by-products from the stabilized polymer.


*Front end process vent* means any process vent from a continuous unit operation involved in the purification of formaldehyde feedstock for use in the acetal homopolymer process. All front end process vents are restricted to those vents that occur prior to the polymer reactor.


(3) *Requirements.* Table 1 of this section specifies the acetal resins production standards applicability for existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform tests, TRE calculations or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113. The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from each affected source emission point by meeting the applicable requirements specified in table 1 of this section.


(b) *Acrylic and modacrylic fiber production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the acrylic fibers and modacrylic fibers production (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, that are associated with a suspension or solution polymerization process unit that produces acrylic and modacrylic fiber located at a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.


(A) All storage vessels that store liquid containing acrylonitrile or organic HAP.


(B) All process vents from continuous unit operations.


(C) All wastewater streams associated with the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process unit as defined in (b)(2) of this section.


(D) Equipment (as defined in § 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts acrylonitrile or organic HAP.


(E) All acrylic and modacrylic fiber spinning lines using a spinning solution or suspension having organic acrylonitrile or organic HAP. For the purposes of implementing this paragraph, a spinning line includes the spinning solution filters, spin bath, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, dry, or draw the spun fiber.


(ii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule, for affected sources as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, is specified in § 63.1102.


(2) *Definitions.*

*Acrylic fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.


*Acrylic and modacrylic fibers production* means the production of either of the following synthetic fibers composed of acrylonitrile units:


(i) Acrylic fiber.


(ii) Modacrylic fiber.


*Acrylonitrile solution polymerization* means a process where acrylonitrile and comonomers are dissolved in a solvent to form a polymer solution (typically polyacrylonitrile). The polyacrylonitrile is soluble in the solvent. In contrast to suspension polymerization, the resulting reactor polymer solution (spin dope) is filtered and pumped directly to the fiber spinning process.


*Acrylonitrile suspension polymerization* means a polymerization process where small drops of acrylonitrile and comonomers are suspended in water in the presence of a catalyst where they polymerize under agitation. Solid beads of polymer are formed in this suspension reaction which are subsequently filtered, washed, refiltered, and dried. The beads must be subsequently redissolved in a solvent to create a spin dope prior to introduction to the fiber spinning process.


*Fiber spinning line* means the group of equipment and process vents associated with acrylic or modacrylic fiber spinning operations. The fiber spinning line includes (as applicable to the type of spinning process used) the blending and dissolving tanks, spinning solution filters, wet spinning units, spin bath tanks, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, dry, or draw the spun fiber.


*In organic hazardous air pollutant or in organic HAP service* means, for acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources, that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 10 percent by weight of total organic HAP as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service.


*Modacrylic fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is any long-chain synthetic polymer composed of at least 35 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units but less than 85 percent by weight of acrylonitrile units.


*Seal* means, for acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources complying with the requirements of § 63.1033(b) or § 63.167(a) on or after October 8, 2014, that instrument monitoring of the open-ended valve or line conducted according to the method specified in § 63.1023(b) and, as applicable, § 63.1023(c), or § 63.180(b) and, as applicable, § 63.180(c), indicates no readings of 500 parts per million or greater.


*Spin dope* means the liquid mixture of polymer and solvent that is fed to the spinneret to form the acrylic and modacrylic fibers.


(3) *Requirements.* An owner or operator of an affected source must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Table 2 of this section specifies the acrylic and modacrylic fiber production source category control requirement applicability for both existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform tests, or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113. The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from each affected source emission point by meeting the applicable requirements specified in table 2 of this section.


(ii) The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production facility by meeting the applicable requirements specified in table 3 of this section. The owner or operator must determine the facility organic HAP emission rate using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source does not have to perform tests, TRE calculations or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.


(4) *Fiber spinning line enclosure requirements.* For an owner or operator of a new or modified source electing to comply with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the fiber spinning line enclosure must be designed and operated to meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The enclosure must cover the spinning and washing areas of the spinning line.


(ii) The enclosure must be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” in 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.


(iii) The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of material into or out of the enclosure by conveyor, vehicles, or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or to direct airflow into the enclosure.


(iv) The owner or operator must perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in section 5.0 to “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.


(5) *Facility organic HAP emission rate determination.* For an owner or operator electing to comply with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the facility organic HAP emission rate must be determined using the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator must prepare an initial determination of the facility organic HAP emission rate.


(ii) Whenever changes to the acrylic or modacrylic fiber production operations at the facility could potentially cause the facility organic HAP emission rate to exceed the applicable limit of kilogram of organic HAP per Megagram of fiber produced, the owner or operator must prepare a new determination of the facility organic HAP emission rate.


(iii) For each determination, the owner or operator must prepare and maintain at the facility site sufficient process data, emissions data, and any other documentation necessary to support the facility organic HAP emission rate calculation.


(c) *Hydrogen fluoride production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source*—For the hydrogen fluoride production (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that are associated with a hydrogen fluoride production process unit located at a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.


(A) All storage vessels used to accumulate or store hydrogen fluoride.


(B) All process vents from continuous unit operations associated with hydrogen fluoride recovery and refining operations. These process vents include vents on condensers, distillation units, and water scrubbers.


(C) All transfer racks used to load hydrogen fluoride into tank trucks or railcars.


(D) Equipment in hydrogen fluoride service (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section).


(2) *Definitions.*

*Connector* means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to connect two pipelines or a pipeline and a piece of equipment. A common connector is a flange. Joined fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are not considered connectors for the purposes of this subpart.


*Equipment* means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, and instrumentation system in hydrogen fluoride service; and any control devices or closed-vent systems used to comply with this subpart.


*Hydrogen fluoride production* means a process engaged in the production and recovery of hydrogen fluoride by reacting calcium fluoride with sulfuric acid. For the purpose of implementing this subpart, hydrogen fluoride production is not a process that produces gaseous hydrogen fluoride for direct reaction with hydrated aluminum to form aluminum fluoride (i.e., the hydrogen fluoride is not recovered as an intermediate or final product prior to reacting with the hydrated aluminum).


*In hydrogen fluoride service* means that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a hydrogen fluoride process fluid (liquid or gas).


*In vacuum service* means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals below ambient pressure.


*Instrumentation system* means a group of equipment components used to condition and convey a sample of the process fluid to analyzers and instruments for the purpose of determining process operating conditions (e.g., composition, pressure, flow, etc.). Valves and connectors are the predominant type of equipment used in instrumentation systems; however, other types of equipment may also be included in these systems.


*Kiln seal* means the mechanical or hydraulic seals at both ends of the kiln, designed to prevent the infiltration of moisture and air through the interface of the rotating kiln and stationary pipes and equipment attached to the kiln during normal vacuum operation of the kiln (operation at an internal pressure of at least 0.25 kilopascal [one inch of water] below ambient pressure).


*Leakless pump* means a pump whose seals are submerged in liquid, a magnetically-driven pump, a pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, a canned pump, or other pump that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing.


*Open-ended valve or line* means any valve, except relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and one side open to the atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.


*Pressure release* means the emission of materials resulting from the system pressure being greater than the set pressure of the relief device. This release can be one release or a series of releases over a short time period due to a malfunction in the process.


*Pressure relief device or valve* means a safety device used to prevent operating pressures from exceeding the maximum allowable working pressure of the process equipment. A common pressure relief device is a spring-loaded pressure relief valve. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.


*Relief device or valve* means a valve used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge. A relief valve discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause that requires immediate venting of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage.


*Repaired* for the purpose of this regulation means equipment is adjusted, or otherwise altered, to eliminate a leak identified by sensory monitoring.


*Sampling connection system* means an assembly of equipment within a process unit or affected facility used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process fluid. Equipment used to take nonroutine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.


*Sensory monitoring* means the detection of a potential leak to the atmosphere by walk-through visual, audible, or olfactory monitoring. Comprehensive component-by-component inspection is not required.


*Shift* means the time a shift operator normally works, typically 8 or 12 hours.


(3) *Requirements.* Table 4 of this section specifies the hydrogen fluoride production source category applicability and control requirements for both existing and new sources. The owner or operator must control hydrogen fluoride emissions from each affected source emission point as specified in table 4. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Specific monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in table 4. Minimization of emissions from startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, including those resulting from kiln seals must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.


(d) *Polycarbonate production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the polycarbonate production (as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that are part of a polycarbonate production process unit located at a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act. For the purposes of this rule, a polycarbonate production process unit is a unit that produces polycarbonate by interfacial polymerization from bisphenols and phosgene. Phosgene production units that are associated with polycarbonate production process units are considered to be part of the polycarbonate production process. A phosgene production unit consists of the reactor in which phosgene is formed and all equipment (listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section) downstream of the reactor that provides phosgene for the production of polycarbonate. Therefore, for the purposes of this rule, such a phosgene production unit is considered to be a polycarbonate production process unit.


(A) All storage vessels that store liquids containing organic HAP.


(B) All process vents from continuous and batch unit operations.


(C) All wastewater streams.


(D) Equipment (as defined in § 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts organic HAP.


(ii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule, for affected sources as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, is specified in § 63.1102.


(2) *Definitions.*

*In organic hazardous air pollutant or in organic HAP service* means, for polycarbonate production affected sources, that a piece of equipment either contains or contracts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service.


*Polycarbonate production* means a process engaged in the production of a special class of polyester formed from any dihydroxy compound and any carbonate diester or by ester exchange. Polycarbonate may be produced by solution or emulsion polymerization, although other methods may be used. A typical method for the manufacture of polycarbonate includes the reaction of bisphenol-A with phosgene in the presence of pyridine or other catalyst to form polycarbonate. Methylene chloride or other solvents are used in this polymerization reaction.


*Seal* means, for polycarbonate production affected sources complying with the requirements of § 63.1033(b) or § 63.167(a) or after October 8, 2014, that instrument monitoring of the open-ended valve or line conducted according to the method specified in § 63.1023(b) and, as applicable, § 63.1023(c), or § 63.180(b) and, as applicable, § 63.180(c), indicates no readings of 500 parts per million or greater.


(3) *Requirements.* Tables 5 and 6 of this section specify the applicability criteria and standards for existing and new sources within the polycarbonate production source category. The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from each affected source emission point by meeting the applicable requirements specified in tables 5 and 6. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform tests, TRE calculations or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.


(e) *Ethylene production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the ethylene production (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source comprises all emission points listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (G) of this section that are associated with an ethylene production unit that is located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.

  


(A) All storage vessels (as defined in § 63.1101) that store liquids containing organic HAP. 


(B) All ethylene process vents (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) from continuous unit operations. 


(C) All transfer racks (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) that load HAP-containing material. 


(D) Equipment (as defined in § 63.1101) that contains or contacts organic HAP. 


(E) All waste streams (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) associated with an ethylene production unit. 


(F) All heat exchange systems (as defined in § 63.1082(b)) associated with an ethylene production unit.


(G) All ethylene cracking furnaces and associated decoking operations. 


(ii) *Exceptions.* The emission points listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) (A) through (L) of this section are in the ethylene production source category but are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. 


(A) Equipment that is located within an ethylene production unit that is subject to this subpart but does not contain organic HAP. 


(B) Stormwater from segregated sewers. 


(C) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems in segregated sewers. 


(D) Spills. 


(E) Water from safety showers. 


(F) Water from testing of fire-fighting and deluge systems. 


(G) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic HAP as impurities. 


(H) Transfer racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that only transfer liquids containing organic HAP as impurities. 


(I) Transfer racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that vapor balance during all transfer operations. 


(J) Air emissions from all ethylene cracking furnaces.


(K) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere. 


(L) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships. 


(iii) *Exclusions.* The provisions of this subpart do not apply to process units and emission points subject to subparts F, G, H, I and CC of this part. 


(iv) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule for the ethylene production source category is specified in § 63.1102. 


(2) *Definitions. *

*Decoking operation* means the coke combustion activity that occurs inside the radiant tube(s) in the ethylene cracking furnace firebox. Coke combustion activities during decoking can also occur in other downstream equipment such as the process gas outlet piping and transfer line exchangers or quench points.


*Ethylene process vent* means a gas stream with a flow rate greater than 0.005 standard cubic meters per minute containing greater than 20 parts per million by volume HAP that is continuously discharged during operation of an ethylene production unit. On and after July 6, 2023, ethylene process vent means a gas stream with a flow rate greater than 0.005 standard cubic meters per minute containing greater than 20 parts per million by volume HAP that is continuously or periodically discharged during operation of an ethylene production unit. Ethylene process vents are gas streams that are discharged to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) either directly or after passing through one or more recovery devices. Ethylene process vents do not include:


(A) Pressure relief device discharges;


(B) Gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system, including any flares using fuel gas, of which less than 50 percent of the fuel gas is derived from an ethylene production unit;


(C) Gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system whereby any flares using fuel gas, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from an ethylene production unit, comply with § 63.1103(e)(4) beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c);


(D) Leaks from equipment regulated under this subpart;


(E) Episodic or nonroutine releases such as those associated with startup, shutdown, and malfunction until July 6, 2023;


(F) In situ sampling systems (online analyzers) until July 6, 2023; and


(G) Coke combustion emissions from decoking operations beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c).


*Ethylene production or production unit* means a chemical manufacturing process unit in which ethylene and/or propylene are produced by separation from petroleum refining process streams or by subjecting hydrocarbons to high temperatures in the presence of steam. The ethylene production unit includes the separation of ethylene and/or propylene from associated streams such as a C_4_ product, pyrolysis gasoline, and pyrolysis fuel oil. Ethylene production does not include the manufacture of SOCMI chemicals such as the production of butadiene from the C_4_ stream and aromatics from pyrolysis gasoline. 


*Force majeure event* means a release of HAP, either directly to the atmosphere from a pressure relief device or discharged via a flare, that is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator to result from an event beyond the owner or operator's control, such as natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; loss of a utility external to the ethylene production unit (*e.g.,* external power curtailment), excluding power curtailment due to an interruptible service agreement; and fire or explosion originating at a near or adjoining facility outside of the ethylene production unit that impacts the ethylene production unit's ability to operate.


*Organic HAP* means the compounds listed in Table 1 to subpart XX of this part.


*Periodically discharged* means gas stream discharges that are intermittent for which the total organic HAP concentration is greater than 20 parts per million by volume and total volatile organic compound emissions are 50 pounds per day or more. These intermittent discharges are associated with routine operations, maintenance activities, startups, shutdowns, malfunctions, or process upsets and do not include pressure relief device discharges or discharges classified as maintenance vents.


*Pressure-assisted multi-point flare* means a flare system consisting of multiple flare burners in staged arrays whereby the vent stream pressure is used to promote mixing and smokeless operation at the flare burner tips. Pressure-assisted multi-point flares are designed for smokeless operation at velocities up to Mach = 1 conditions (*i.e.,* sonic conditions), can be elevated or at ground level, and typically use cross-lighting for flame propagation to combust any flare vent gases sent to a particular stage of flare burners.


*Pressure relief device* means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.


*Radiant tube(s)* means any portion of the tube coil assembly located within the ethylene cracking furnace firebox whereby a thermal cracking reaction of hydrocarbons (in the presence of steam) occurs. Hydrocarbons and steam pass through the radiant tube(s) of the ethylene cracking furnace during normal operation and coke is removed from the inside of the radiant tube(s) during decoking operation.


*Relief valve* means a type of pressure relief device that is designed to re-close after the pressure relief.


*Transfer rack* means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses at a single loading rack that is used to fill tank trucks and/or railcars with organic HAP. Transfer rack includes the associated pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves. Transfer rack does not include racks, arms, or hoses that contain organic HAP only as impurities; or racks, arms, or hoses that vapor balance during all loading operations. 


*Waste* means any material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations, or from community activities, that is discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, thermally, or biologically treated prior to being discarded, recycled, or discharged. 


*Waste stream* means the waste generated by a particular process unit, product tank, or waste management unit. The characteristics of the waste stream (e.g., flow rate, HAP concentration, water content) are determined at the point of waste generation. Examples of a waste stream include process wastewater, product tank drawdown, sludge and slop oil removed from waste management units, and landfill leachate. 


(3) *Requirements.* The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from each affected source emission point by meeting the applicable requirements specified in Table 7 to this section. An owner or operator must perform the applicability assessment procedures and methods for process vents specified in § 63.1104, except for paragraphs (d), (g), (h) through (j), (l)(1), and (n). An owner or operator must perform the applicability assessment procedures and methods for equipment leaks specified in § 63.1107. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Before July 6, 2023, minimization of emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunctions must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after July 6, 2023 and the requirements specified in § 63.1111 no longer apply; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for five years after July 6, 2023. Except as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, procedures for approval of alternate means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.


(4) *Flares.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), if a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare is used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Table 7 to this section, then the owner or operator must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, including the provisions in Tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (xiv) of this section. This requirement also applies to any flare using fuel gas from a fuel gas system, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from an ethylene production unit, being used to control an emission point subject to the requirements in Table 7 of this section. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the following terms are defined in § 63.641 of subpart CC: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam.


(i) The owner or operator may elect to comply with the alternative means of emissions limitation requirements specified in of § 63.670(r) of subpart CC in lieu of the requirements in § 63.670(d) through (f) of subpart CC, as applicable. However, instead of complying with § 63.670(r)(3) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must submit the alternative means of emissions limitation request following the requirements in § 63.1113.


(ii) Instead of complying with § 63.670(o)(2)(i) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must develop and implement the flare management plan no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c).


(iii) Instead of complying with § 63.670(o)(2)(iii) of subpart CC, if required to develop a flare management plan and submit it to the Administrator, then the owner or operator must also submit all versions of the plan in portable document format (PDF) to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through U.S. mail must be sent to the attention of the Ethylene Production Sector Lead.


(iv) Section 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC and all references to § 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC do not apply. Instead, the owner or operator must comply with the maximum flare tip velocity operating limit at all times.


(v) Substitute “ethylene production unit” for each occurrence of “petroleum refinery.”


(vi) Each occurrence of “refinery” does not apply.


(vii) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii)(G) of this section, if a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Table 7 to this section, then the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(vii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator is not required to comply with the flare tip velocity requirements in § 63.670(d) and (k) of subpart CC;


(B) The owner or operator must comply with the NHVcz requirements in § 63.670(e)(2) of subpart CC;


(C) The owner or operator must determine the 15-minute block average NHVvg using only the direct calculation method specified in § 63.670(l)(5)(ii) of subpart CC;


(D) Instead of complying with § 63.670(b) and (g) of subpart CC, if a pressure-assisted multi-point flare uses cross-lighting on a stage of burners rather than having an individual pilot flame on each burner, the owner or operator must operate each stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare with a flame present at all times when regulated material is routed to that stage of burners. Each stage of burners that cross-lights in the pressure-assisted multi-point flare must have at least two pilots with at least one continuously lit and capable of igniting all regulated material that is routed to that stage of burners. Each 15-minute block during which there is at least one minute where no pilot flame is present on a stage of burners when regulated material is routed to that stage is a deviation of the standard. Deviations in different 15-minute blocks from the same event are considered separate deviations. The pilot flame(s) on each stage of burners that use cross-lighting must be continuously monitored by a thermocouple or any other equivalent device used to detect the presence of a flame;


(E) Unless the owner or operator of a pressure-assisted multi-point flare chooses to conduct a cross-light performance demonstration as specified in this paragraph, the owner or operator must ensure that if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, that the distance between any two burners in series on that stage is no more than 6 feet when measured from the center of one burner to the next burner. A distance greater than 6 feet between any two burners in series may be used provided the owner or operator conducts a performance demonstration that confirms the pressure-assisted multi-point flare will cross-light a minimum of three burners and the spacing between the burners and location of the pilot flame must be representative of the projected installation. The compliance demonstration must be approved by the permitting authority and a copy of this approval must be maintained onsite. The compliance demonstration report must include: A protocol describing the test methodology used, associated test method QA/QC parameters, the waste gas composition and NHVcz of the gas tested, the velocity of the waste gas tested, the pressure-assisted multi-point flare burner tip pressure, the time, length, and duration of the test, records of whether a successful cross-light was observed over all of the burners and the length of time it took for the burners to cross-light, records of maintaining a stable flame after a successful cross-light and the duration for which this was observed, records of any smoking events during the cross-light, waste gas temperature, meteorological conditions (*e.g.,* ambient temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, and relative humidity), and whether there were any observed flare flameouts; and


(F) The owner or operator of a pressure-assisted multi-point flare must install and operate pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header, as well as a valve position indicator monitoring system for each staging valve to ensure that the flare operates within the proper range of conditions as specified by the manufacturer. The pressure monitor must meet the requirements in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.


(G) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is operating under the requirements of an approved alternative means of emission limitations, the owner or operator shall either continue to comply with the terms of the alternative means of emission limitations or comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(4)(vii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(viii) If an owner or operator chooses to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(viii)(A) through (G) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator must meet the requirements in § 63.671(e)(2). The owner or operator may augment the minimum list of calibration gas components found in § 63.671(e)(2) with compounds found during a pre-survey or known to be in the gas through process knowledge.


(B) Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.


(C) For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, the owner or operator may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, the owner or operator may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component's NHV_vg_.


(D) The owner or operator may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.


(E) The owner or operator must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.


(F) The owner or operator must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in Section 10.1 and performing the periodic calibration requirements listed for gas chromatographs in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part, for the process mass spectrometer. The owner or operator may use the alternative sampling line temperature allowed under Net Heating Value by Gas Chromatograph in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.


(G) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using the following equation:


(ix) An owner or operator using a gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer for compositional analysis for net heating value may choose to use the CE of NHV_measured_ versus the cylinder tag value NHV as the measure of agreement for daily calibration and quarterly audits in lieu of determining the compound-specific CE. The CE for NHV at any calibration level must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for must be calculated using the following equation:


(x) Instead of complying with § 63.670(p) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must keep the flare monitoring records specified in § 63.1109(e).


(xi) Instead of complying with § 63.670(q) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(d) and (e)(4).


(xii) When determining compliance with the pilot flame requirements specified in § 63.670(b) and (g), substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”


(xiii) When determining compliance with the flare tip velocity and combustion zone operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) and (e), the requirement effectively applies starting with the 15-minute block that includes a full 15 minutes of the flaring event. The owner or operator is required to demonstrate compliance with the velocity and NHVcz requirements starting with the block that contains the fifteenth minute of a flaring event. The owner or operator is not required to demonstrate compliance for the previous 15-minute block in which the event started and contained only a fraction of flow.


(xiv) In lieu of meeting the requirements in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, an owner or operator may submit a request to the Administrator for approval of an alternative test method in accordance with § 63.7(f). The alternative test method must be able to demonstrate on an ongoing basis at least once every 15-minutes that the flare meets 96.5% combustion efficiency and provide a description of the alternative recordkeeping and reporting that would be associated with the alternative test method. The alternative test method request may also include a request to use the alternative test method in lieu of the pilot or flare flame monitoring requirements of 63.670(g).


(5) *Maintenance vents.* Unless an extension is requested in accordance with the provisions in § 63.6(i) of subpart A, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), an owner or operator may designate an ethylene process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. The owner or operator must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for each maintenance vent.


(i) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, or a non-flare control device meeting the requirements specified in § 63.982(c)(2) of subpart SS, until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.


(A) The concentration of the vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is less than 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL).


(B) If there is no ability to measure the concentration of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of the equipment cannot be used until the concentration of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent of its LEL.


(C) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(D) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.


(ii) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(C) of this section, the owner or operator must determine the concentration of the vapor or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(iii) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(C) of this section, the owner or operator must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.


(6) *Bypass lines.* Beginning on the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), the use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions subject to the requirements in Table 7 to § 63.1103(_e_) to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in Table 7 of this subpart is an emissions standards violation. If the owner or operator is subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS, then the owner or operator must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.998(d)(1)(ii) and 63.999(c)(2) of subpart SS, in addition to paragraph (e)(9) of this section, the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1109(g), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(e)(6). For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the phrase “Except for equipment needed for safety purposes such as pressure relief devices, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines” in § 63.983(a)(3) does not apply; instead, the exemptions specified in paragraph (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(i) Except for pressure relief devices subject to 40 CFR 63.1107(h)(4), equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e) are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6) of this section.


(ii) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6) of this section.


(7) *Decoking operation standards for ethylene cracking furnaces.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), the owner or operator must comply with paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section and also use at least two of the control measures specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(ii) through (v) of this section to minimize coke combustion emissions from the decoking of the radiant tube(s) in each ethylene cracking furnace.


(i) During normal operations, conduct daily inspections of the firebox burners and repair all burners that are impinging on the radiant tube(s) as soon as practical, but not later than 1 calendar day after the flame impingement is found. The owner or operator may delay burner repair beyond 1 calendar day provided the repair cannot be completed during normal operations, the burner cannot be shutdown without significantly impacting the furnace heat distribution and firing rate, and action is taken to reduce flame impingement as much as possible during continued operation. If a delay of repair is required to fully resolve burner flame impingement, repair must be completed following the next planned decoking operation (and before returning the ethylene cracking furnace back to normal operations) or during the next ethylene cracking furnace complete shutdown (when the ethylene cracking furnace firebox is taken completely offline), whichever is earlier. An inspection may include, but is not limited to: visual inspection of the radiant tube(s) for localized bright spots (this may be confirmed with a temperature gun), use of luminescent powders injected into the burner to illuminate the flame pattern, or identifying continued localized coke buildup that causes short runtimes between decoking cycles. A repair may include, but is not limited to: Taking the burner out of service, replacing the burner, adjusting the alignment of the burner, adjusting burner configuration, making burner air corrections, repairing a malfunction of the fuel liquid removal equipment, or adding insulation around the radiant tube(s).


(ii) During decoking operations, beginning before the expected end of the air-in decoke time, continuously monitor (or use a gas detection tube or equivalent sample technique every three hours to monitor) the CO_2_ concentration in the combined decoke effluent downstream of the last component being decoked for an indication that the coke combustion in the ethylene cracking furnace radiant tube(s) is complete. The owner or operator must immediately initiate procedures to stop the coke combustion once the CO_2_ concentration at the outlet consistently reaches a level that indicates combustion of coke is complete and site decoke completion assurance procedures have been concluded.


(iii) During decoking operations, continuously monitor the temperature at the radiant tube(s) outlet when air is being introduced to ensure the coke combustion occurring inside the radiant tube(s) is not so aggressive (*i.e.,* too hot) that it damages either the radiant tube(s) or ethylene cracking furnace isolation valve(s). The owner or operator must immediately initiate procedures to reduce the temperature at the radiant tube(s) outlet once the temperature reaches a level that indicates combustion of coke inside the radiant tube(s) is too aggressive.


(iv) After decoking, but before returning the ethylene cracking furnace back to normal operations, verify that decoke air is no longer being added.


(v) After decoking, but before returning the ethylene cracking furnace back to normal operations and/or during normal operations, inject materials into the steam or feed to reduce coke formation inside the radiant tube(s) during normal operation.


(8) *Ethylene cracking furnace isolation valve inspections.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), the owner or operator must conduct ethylene cracking furnace isolation valve inspections as specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Prior to decoking operation, inspect the applicable ethylene cracking furnace isolation valve(s) to confirm that the radiant tube(s) being decoked is completely isolated from the ethylene production process so that no emissions generated from decoking operations are sent to the ethylene production process. If poor isolation is identified, then the owner or operator must rectify the isolation issue prior to continuing decoking operations to prevent leaks into the ethylene production process, unless the owner or operator determines that damage to the radiant tube(s) or ethylene cracking furnace could occur if the repair was attempted prior to completing a decoking operation and/or prior to the ethylene cracking furnace being shut down.


(ii) Prior to returning the ethylene cracking furnace to normal operations after a decoking operation, inspect the applicable ethylene cracking furnace isolation valve(s) to confirm that the radiant tube(s) that was decoked is completely isolated from the decoking pot or furnace firebox such that no emissions are sent from the radiant tube(s) to the decoking pot or furnace firebox once the ethylene cracking furnace returns to normal operation. If poor isolation is identified, then the owner or operator must rectify the isolation issue prior to continuing normal operations to prevent product from escaping to the atmosphere through the decoking pot or furnace firebox.


(9) *Startup, shutdown, and malfunction referenced provisions.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (e)(9)(i) through (xx) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(i) The second sentence of § 63.181(d)(5)(i) of subpart H.


(ii) The second sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) of subpart SS.


(iii) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS.


(iv) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS.


(v) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS.


(vi) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS.


(vii) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) of subpart SS.


(viii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) of subpart SS.


(ix) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) of subpart SS.


(x) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) of subpart SS.


(xi) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) of subpart SS.


(xii) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) of subpart SS.


(xiii) The phrase “except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section” from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) of subpart SS.


(xiv) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) of subpart SS.


(xv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) of subpart SS.


(xvi) Section 63.998(d)(3) of subpart SS.


(xvii) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i) of subpart UU.


(xviii) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A) of subpart UU.


(xix) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) of subpart UU.


(xx) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1031(b)(1) of subpart UU.


(10) *Storage vessel degassing.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), for each storage vessel subject to paragraph (b) or (c) of table 7 to § 63.1103(e), the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (e)(10)(i) through (iv) of this section during storage vessel shutdown operations (*i.e.,* emptying and degassing of a storage vessel) until the vapor space concentration in the storage vessel is less than 10 percent of the LEL. The owner or operator must determine the concentration using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(i) Remove liquids from the storage vessel as much as practicable;


(ii) Comply with one of the following:


(A) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 98 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare and meet the requirements of § 63.983 and paragraphs (e)(4) and (9) of this section.


(B) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 98 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices and meet the requirements specified in § 63.982(c)(1) and paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(C) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 98 weight-percent by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in § 63.982(d) and paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(iii) Maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 63.1108(a)(4)(ii) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.


(iv) For floating roof storage vessels, the storage vessel may be opened to set up equipment (e.g., making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.


(f) *Carbon black production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the carbon black production source category (as defined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section), the affected source shall comprise each carbon black production process unit located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Act. The affected source for the carbon black production source category includes all waste management units, maintenance wastewater, and equipment components that contain or contact HAP that are associated with the carbon black production process unit. 


(ii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule for the carbon black production and acetylene decomposition carbon black production affected sources, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, is specified in § 63.1102. 


(2) *Definitions. Carbon black production* means the production of carbon black by either the furnace, thermal, acetylene decomposition, or lampblack processes. 


*Carbon black production unit* means the equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work to process raw materials to manufacture, store, and transport a carbon black product. For the purposes of this subpart, a carbon black production process unit includes reactors and associated operations; associated recovery devices; and any feed, intermediate and product storage vessels, product transfer racks, and connected ducts and piping. A carbon black production process unit includes pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, and control devices or systems. 


*Dryer* means a rotary-kiln dryer that is heated externally and is used to dry wet pellets in the wet pelletization process. 


*Main unit filter* means the filter that separates the carbon black from the tailgas. 


*Process filter* means the filter that separates the carbon black from the conveying air. 


*Purge filter* means the filter that separates the carbon black from the dryer exhaust. 


(3) *Requirements.* (i) Table 8 to this section specifies the carbon black production standards applicability for existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in § 63.1104. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform applicability tests or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Before May 18, 2022, minimization of emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunctions must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after May 18, 2022 and the requirements specified in § 63.1111 no longer apply; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for 5 years after May 18, 2022. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.


(ii) Pressure relief devices used to protect against overpressure in the case of catastrophic failure of your process filter system are exempt from the closed vent system inspection requirements of § 63.983(b) and (c). Exempt pressure relief devices must be designated and identified in your Notification of Compliance Status report. 


(iii) The boiler and process heater tune up requirements of paragraphs (f)(3)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section apply beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources and as specified in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), line entry (c).


(A) Inspect the combustion device for damage, wear, and buildup of material that could impact effectiveness, and clean or replace any components of the burner as necessary. Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the combustion device inspection until the first outage after the annual inspection is required, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection. At units where entry into a piece of process equipment or into a storage vessel is required to complete the tune-up inspections, inspections are required only during planned entries into the storage vessel or process equipment;


(B) When possible based upon the configuration of the burner, inspect the flame pattern and adjust the burner if needed to optimize the flame pattern. If manufacturer's specifications for an optimized flame pattern are available, the adjustment should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications;


(C) Inspect the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio, and ensure that it is functioning properly. For any calibrated components ensure that it is correctly calibrated The annual inspection may be delayed until the next scheduled unit shutdown. Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the inspection until the first outage after the annual inspection is required, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection;


(D) Optimize total emissions of CO. If manufacturer's specifications for optimization are available, this optimization should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications and with any NO_X_ requirement to which the unit is subject. If no manufacturer's specifications are available, the inspection and cleaning procedures of paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(A) fulfill the obligations of this paragraph;


(E) Measure the concentrations in the effluent stream of CO in parts per million, by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, before and after the adjustments are made. Measurements may be taken using a portable CO analyzer and may be either on a dry or wet basis, as long as it is the same basis before and after the adjustments are made. If adjustments are not or cannot be made, make the measurements before and after the inspection and cleaning procedures specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(A); and


(F) Maintain on-site and submit, if requested by the Administrator, a report containing the information in paragraphs (f)(3)(iii)(F)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section,


(*1*) The concentrations of CO in the effluent stream in parts per million by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, measured at high fire or typical operating load, before and after the tune-up of the boiler or process heater;


(*2*) A description of any corrective actions taken as a part of the tune-up; and


(*3*) The type and amount of fuel used over the 12 months prior to the tune-up, but only if the unit was physically and legally capable of using more than one type of fuel during that period. Units sharing a fuel meter may estimate the fuel used by each unit.


(iv) When determining the applicability of the carbon black production process vent requirements specified in line entry (b) to Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), an owner or operator is required to determine the HAP concentration of the process vent streams, at a minimum, as specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) As an alternative to testing all carbon black production process carbon black or product vent streams after the main unit filter to determine applicability, an owner or operator has the option of testing the first carbon black production process or product vent stream after the main unit filter. If the concentration of the emission stream is less than 260 parts per million by volume as determined by the process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv), then all process vents after the main unit filter and before the dryer are deemed to be in compliance and are not subject to the emission limits in Table 8 below.


(B) As an alternative to testing all carbon black production process carbon black or product vent streams after the dryer to determine applicability, an owner or operator has the option of testing the first carbon black production process carbon black or product vent stream after the dryer. If the concentration of the emission stream is less than 260 parts per million by volume as determined by the process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv), then all process vents after the dryer are deemed to be in compliance and are not subject to the emission limits in Table 8 below.


(C) Report the results of the applicability assessment according to paragraph § 63.1110(a)(10)(i).


(D) A test meeting the requirements of § 63.1104(e) conducted after November 18, 2016 and where no process changes have occurred since the test that may affect emissions, may be submitted according to § 63.1110(a)(10)(i)(A) through (C) in lieu of performing a new applicability determination.


(v) When determining the applicability of the carbon black production main unit filter process vent requirements specified in line entry (a) to Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), an owner or operator is required to determine the HAP concentration of the main unit filter process vent streams. Beginning November 19, 2021, report the results of any applicability assessment conducted after November 19, 2021, the applicability assessment according to paragraph § 63.1110(a)(10)(i).






(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (xiii) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(i) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS(equipment and operating requirements for fuel gas systems and processes requirements).


(ii) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS (nonflare control device equipment and operating requirements).


(iii) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS (halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device monitoring requirements).


(iv) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS (operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems) “(ii) If under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator has developed a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the plan is followed, and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(E).”


(v) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) (performance test procedures) of subpart SS (general procedures for continuous unit operations): “Operations during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.”


(vi) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) (excluded data) of subpart SS: “(iii) Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a) and maintains the records specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.”


(vii) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(viii) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(ix) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(x) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(xi) The phrase “except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section” from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(xii) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS. “If a source has developed a startup, shutdown and malfunction plan, and a monitored parameter is outside its established range or monitoring data are not collected during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction (and the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a)) or during periods of nonoperation of the process unit or portion thereof (resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies), then the excursion is not a violation and, in cases where continuous monitoring is required, the excursion does not count as the excused excursion for determining compliance.”


(xiii) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) (nonflare control and recovery device regulated source monitoring records) of subpart SS.


(xiv) Section 63.998(d)(3) (regulated source and control equipment start-up, shutdown, and malfunction records) of subpart SS.






(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e), the provisions specified in § 63.983(a)(1) of subpart SS that each closed vent system shall be designed and operated to collect the regulated material vapors from the emission point shall apply at all times, with the following exception: The closed vent system to the control device may be bypassed during startup or shutdown of a reactor when the excess oxygen concentration in the closed vent system is greater than or equal to 3 percent. Startup and shutdown of a reactor must be completed as expeditiously as possible, and in fewer than 15 minutes whenever possible. In no case shall the time period allowed be permitted to exceed 15 minutes. The bypass of the control device must use one of the methods specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (ii):


(i) *Calculated Purge Duration Method:* Each facility must calculate the purge duration of their closed vent system by evaluating the volume of the closed vent system and the flowrate of the contents of the closed vent system from the reactor to the common tail gas header. Additionally, each facility must calculate the amount of time it takes to open and/or close the common tail gas header and open and/or close the main unit filter vent to maintain constant pressure. The time required to completely purge the closed vent system is added to the time required to open and close the associated vents along with a safety factor that accounts for the physical and technological constraints of the facility, to determine the total calculated purge duration in minutes.


(ii) *Oxygen Sensors:* Facilities may use oxygen sensors located within the closed vent system to determine when the oxygen level falls below 3 percent.




(g) *Cyanide chemicals manufacturing applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the cyanide chemicals manufacturing source category, the affected source shall include each cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Act. The affected source shall also include all waste management units, maintenance wastewater, and equipment (as defined in § 63.1101) that contain or contact cyanide chemicals that are associated with the cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit. 


(ii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule for the affected source, as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, is specified in § 63.1102.




(2) *Definitions. Andrussow process unit* means a process unit that produces hydrogen cyanide by reacting methane and ammonia in the presence of oxygen over a platinum/rhodium catalyst. An Andrussow process unit begins at the point at which the raw materials are stored and ends at the point at which refined hydrogen cyanide is reacted as a raw material in a downstream process, burned on-site as fuel in a boiler or industrial furnace, or is shipped offsite. If raw hydrogen cyanide from the reactor is reacted with sodium hydroxide to form sodium cyanide prior to the refining process, the unit operation where sodium cyanide is formed is considered to be part of the Andrussow process unit. 


*Blausaure Methane Anlage (BMA) process unit* means a process unit that produces hydrogen cyanide by reacting methane and ammonia over a platinum catalyst. A BMA process unit begins at the point at which raw materials are stored and ends at the point at which refined hydrogen cyanide is reacted as a raw material in a downstream process, burned on-site as a fuel in a boiler or industrial furnace, or is shipped offsite. If raw hydrogen cyanide from the reactor is reacted with sodium hydroxide to form sodium cyanide prior to the refining process, the unit operation where sodium cyanide is formed is considered to be part of the BMA process unit. 


*Byproduct* means a chemical that is produced coincidentally during the production of another chemical. 


*Cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit* or *CCMPU* means the equipment assembled and connected by hard-piping or duct work to process raw materials to manufacture, store, and transport a cyanide chemicals product. A cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit shall be limited to any one of the following: an Andrussow process unit, a BMA process unit, a sodium cyanide process unit, or a Sohio hydrogen cyanide process unit. For the purpose of this subpart, a cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit includes reactors and associated unit operations; associated recovery devices; and any feed, intermediate and product storage vessels, product transfer racks, and connected ducts and piping. A cyanide chemicals manufacturing process unit includes pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, and control devices or systems. 


*Cyanide chemicals product* means either hydrogen cyanide, potassium cyanide, or sodium cyanide which is manufactured as the intended product of a CCMPU or a byproduct of the Sohio process. Other hydrogen cyanide, potassium cyanide, or sodium cyanide byproducts, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered to be cyanide chemicals products. 


*Dry-end process vent* means a process vent originating from the drum filter or any other unit operation in the dry end of a sodium cyanide manufacturing process unit. For the purposes of this subpart, the dry end of the sodium cyanide process unit begins in the unit operation where water is removed from the sodium cyanide, usually in the drum filter, and ends when the sodium cyanide is used as a raw material in a downstream process, or is shipped offsite. 


*Free cyanide* means chemical species of cyanide that are dissolved in water and are bioavailable and known for their toxic effects on living organisms. This refers to the sum of molecular hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and cyanide ion (CN
-) dissolved in water. Included in this definition are the dissolved products of cyanide salts (including potassium cyanide [KCN] and sodium cyanide [NaCN]), as these salts dissociate to cyanide ion and hydrogen cyanide when added to water.


*Organic HAP* means, for purposes of applicability of the requirements of this subpart, all hydrogen cyanide compounds. 


*Raw hydrogen cyanide* means hydrogen cyanide that has not been through the refining process. Raw hydrogen cyanide usually has a hydrogen cyanide concentration less than 10 percent. 


*Refined hydrogen cyanide* means hydrogen cyanide that has been through the refining process. Refined hydrogen cyanide usually has a hydrogen cyanide concentration greater than 99 percent. 


*Refining process* means the collection of equipment in a cyanide chemicals manufacturing processing unit used to concentrate raw hydrogen cyanide from a concentration around 10 percent or less to refined hydrogen cyanide at a concentration greater than 99 percent. 


*Sodium cyanide process unit* means a process unit that produces sodium cyanide by reacting hydrogen cyanide and sodium hydroxide via the neutralization, or wet, process. A sodium cyanide process unit begins at the unit operation where refined hydrogen cyanide is reacted with sodium hydroxide and ends at the point the solid sodium cyanide product is shipped offsite or used as a raw material in a downstream process. If raw hydrogen cyanide is reacted with sodium hydroxide to form sodium cyanide prior to the hydrogen cyanide refining process, the unit operation where sodium cyanide is formed is not considered to be part of the sodium cyanide process unit. For this type of process, the sodium cyanide process unit begins at the point that the aqueous sodium cyanide stream leaves the unit operation where the sodium cyanide is formed. In situations where potassium hydroxide is substituted for sodium hydroxide to produce potassium cyanide, the process unit is still considered a sodium cyanide process unit. 


*Sohio hydrogen cyanide process unit* means a process unit that produces hydrogen cyanide as a byproduct of the acrylonitrile production process when acrylonitrile is manufactured using the Sohio process. A Sohio hydrogen cyanide process unit begins at the point the hydrogen cyanide leaves the unit operation where the hydrogen cyanide is separated from the acrylonitrile (usually referred to as the heads column). The Sohio hydrogen cyanide process unit ends at the point refined hydrogen cyanide is reacted as a raw material in a downstream process, burned on-site as fuel in a boiler or industrial furnace, or is shipped offsite. If raw hydrogen cyanide is reacted with sodium hydroxide to form sodium cyanide prior to the refining process, the unit operation where sodium cyanide is formed is considered to be part of the Sohio hydrogen cyanide process unit. 


*Wet-end process vent* means a process vent originating from the reactor, crystallizer, or any other unit operation in the wet end of the sodium cyanide process unit. For the purposes of this subpart, the wet end of the sodium cyanide process unit begins at the point at which the raw materials are stored and ends just prior to the unit operation where water is removed from the sodium cyanide, usually in the drum filter. Wastewater streams containing discarded wastewater from the sodium cyanide production process are not considered to be part of the wet-end sodium cyanide process. Discarded wastewater that is no longer used in the production process is considered to be process and/or maintenance wastewater. Vents from process and maintenance wastewater operations are not wet-end process vents. 


(3) *Requirements.* Table 9 to this section specifies the cyanide chemicals manufacturing standards applicable to existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in § 63.1104. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform applicability tests or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Before May 18, 2022, minimization of emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunctions must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after May 18, 2022 and the requirements specified in § 63.1111 no longer apply; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for 5 years after May 18, 2022. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.




(4) *Determination of overall HAP emission reduction for a process unit.* (i) The owner or operator shall determine the overall HAP emission reduction for process vents in a process unit using Equation 1 of this section. The overall organic HAP emission reduction shall be determined for all process vents in the process unit. 


(ii) The control efficiency shall be assigned as specified in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section. 


(A) If the process vent is controlled using a flare in accordance with the provisions of § 63.987, or a combustion device in accordance with the provisions of § 63.988(b)(2), for which a performance test has not been conducted, the control efficiency shall be assumed to be 98 weight-percent. For hydrogen-fueled flares, an owner or operator may use a control efficiency greater than 98 weight-percent if they can provide engineering calculations and supporting information demonstrating a greater control efficiency. 


(B) If the process vent is controlled using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device for which a performance test has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.997, the control efficiency shall be the efficiency determined by the performance test. 


(5) *Source category specific modifications to testing procedures.* (i) When identifying equipment subject to any equipment leak requirements, an owner or operator is allowed to designate specific components of such equipment as never being safe to monitor with their Notification of Compliance Status report and periodic compliance reports. In order for an owner or operator to designate such equipment as never being safe to monitor, they must certify that monitoring such equipment at any time the CCMPU is operating is never safe (e.g., monitoring this equipment would present an unreasonable hazard or preclude testing personnel from meeting emergency evacuation requirements). If it is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction that equipment designated by the owner or operator as never safe to monitor is appropriately designated, an owner or operator will not be required to monitor such equipment. 


(ii) For process vent hydrogen cyanide emissions that are vented to a control device other than a flare during startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the design evaluation must include documentation that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during the reasonably expected maximum flow rate and emission rate during startup, shutdown, and malfunction. 


(iii) If a facility controls process vent emissions during startup, shutdown, and malfunction by using a flare, an owner or operator is not required to perform flow rate and heat content testing as specified in § 63.987(b)(3)(ii) and (iii). In lieu of performing flow rate and heat content testing, an owner or operator is required to submit engineering calculations that substantiate that a flare meets the applicable heat content or flow rates, or provide data from a compliance assessment that the flare is in compliance under worst case conditions (e.g., maximum operating conditions). 


(iv) If flare velocity and net heating value testing, as specified in § 63.11(b)(6)(ii) and (b)(7)(i), would create an unreasonable hazard for testing personnel, an owner or operator is allowed to submit engineering calculations that substantiate vent stream velocity and heat content of a flare in lieu of test data. These calculations are required to be submitted with the facilities' compliance test notification report for approval by the Administrator. 


(v) The data from any performance test method used to measure HCN concentrations must be validated using EPA Method 301 (40 CFR part 63, appendix A).




(vi) For compliance with the wastewater free cyanide analysis provisions of table 9 to § 63.1103(g), free cyanide is to be measured according to ASTM D4282-15 or ASTM D7237-18 (both incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).




(6) *Startup, shutdown, and malfunction referenced provisions.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(d), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) through (xxiii) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(i) The second/last sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) (requirements for pressure relief devices in a transfer rack's closed vent system requirements) of subpart SS: “Pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.”


(ii) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS (equipment and operating requirements for fuel gas systems and processes requirements).


(iii) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS (nonflare control device equipment and operating requirements).


(iv) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS (halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device monitoring requirements).


(v) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS (operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems) “(ii) If under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator has developed a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the plan is followed, and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(E).”


(vi) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) (performance test procedures) of subpart SS (general procedures for continuous unit operations): “Operations during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.”


(vii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) (excluded data) of subpart SS: “(iii) Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a) and maintains the records specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.”


(viii) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(ix) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(x) The phrase “other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(xi) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(xii) The phrase “except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section” from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.


(xiii) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS. “If a source has developed a startup, shutdown and malfunction plan, and a monitored parameter is outside its established range or monitoring data are not collected during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction (and the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a)) or during periods of nonoperation of the process unit or portion thereof (resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies), then the excursion is not a violation and, in cases where continuous monitoring is required, the excursion does not count as the excused excursion for determining compliance.”


(xiv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) (nonflare control and recovery device regulated source monitoring records) of subpart SS.


(xv) Section 63.998(d)(3) (regulated source and control equipment start-up, shutdown and malfunction records) of subpart SS.


(xvi) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1005(e)(4)(i) (leak repair records written procedures) of subpart TT.


(xvii) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1007(e)(1)(ii)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for pumps) of subpart TT.


(xviii) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1009(e)(1)(i)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for agitators) of subpart TT.


(xix) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1012(b)(1) (compressor seal system standard) of subpart TT.


(xx) The phrase “may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or” from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i) (leak repair records written procedures) of subpart UU.


(xxi) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for pumps) of subpart UU.


(xxii) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for agitators of subpart UU.


(xxiii) The phrase “(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)” from § 63.1031(b)(1) (compressor seal system standard) of subpart UU.




(h) *Spandex production applicability, definitions, and requirements*—(1) *Applicability*—(i) *Affected source.* For the spandex production (as defined in paragraph (h)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section that are associated with a spandex production process unit located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.


(A) All process vents (as defined in § 63.1101). 


(B) All storage vessels (as defined in § 63.1101) that store liquids containing organic HAP. 


(C) All spandex fiber spinning lines using a spinning solution having organic HAP. 


(ii) *Exceptions.* The emission points listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section are in the spandex production source category but are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (h)(3) of this section. 


(A) Equipment that is located within a spandex production process unit that is subject to this subpart but does not contain organic HAP. 


(B) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic HAP as impurities. 


(C) Emission points listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section that are associated with a dry spinning spandex production process unit.


(iii) *Compliance schedule.* The compliance schedule for affected sources, as defined in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, is specified in paragraph (b) of § 63.1102. 


(2) *Definitions. Dry spinning* means a fiber-forming process where prepolymer is reacted with a chain-extender to generate polymer prior to spinning; the polymer is dissolved in a solvent and is extruded into a cell of hot gases for fiber formation.


*Fiber spinning line* means the group of equipment and process vents associated with spandex fiber spinning operations. The fiber spinning line includes the blending and dissolving tanks, spinning solution filters, spinning units, spin bath tanks, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, draw, or dry on the wet belt the spun fiber. 


*Reaction spinning* means a fiber-forming process where prepolymer is extruded into a spin bath that contains a chain-extender; the chemical reaction to make polymer occurs simultaneously with extrusion/fiber formation. 


*Spandex or spandex fiber* means a manufactured synthetic fiber in which the fiber-forming substance is a long-chain polymer comprised of at least 85 percent by mass of a segmented polyurethane. 


*Spandex production* means the production of synthetic spandex fibers. 


*Spandex production process unit* means a process unit that is specifically used for the production of synthetic spandex fibers. 


(3) *Requirements.* Table 10 to this section specifies the spandex production source category requirements for new and existing sources. An owner or operator must perform the applicability assessment procedures and methods for process vents specified in § 63.1104, excluding paragraphs (b)(1), (d), (g), (h), (i), (j), (l)(1), and (n). General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Minimization of emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunctions must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. Procedures for approval of alternate means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113. 



---

[N] [64 FR 34921, June 29, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 63699, 63706, Nov. 22, 1999; 64 FR 71852, Dec. 22, 1999; 66 FR 55847, Nov. 2, 2001; 67 FR 39305, June 7, 2002; 67 FR 46281, July 12, 2002; 67 FR 46293, July 12, 2002; 70 FR 19272, Apr. 13, 2005; 79 FR 60922, Oct. 8, 2014; 85 FR 40425, July 6, 2020; 86 FR 66123, Nov. 19, 2021; 89 FR 23864, Apr. 4, 2024]





