# § 400.1   Scope.

(a) This part sets forth the regulations, including the rules of practice and procedure, of the Foreign-Trade Zones Board with regard to foreign-trade zones (FTZs or zones) in the United States pursuant to the Foreign-Trade Zones Act of 1934, as amended (19 U.S.C. 81a-81u). It includes the substantive and procedural rules for the authorization of zones and for the Board's regulation of zone activity. The purpose of zones as stated in the Act is to “expedite and encourage foreign commerce, and other purposes.” The regulations provide the legal framework for accomplishing this purpose in the context of evolving U.S. economic and trade policy, and economic factors relating to international competition.


(b) Part 146 of the customs regulations (19 CFR part 146) governs zone operations, including the admission of merchandise into zones, zone activity involving such merchandise, and the transfer of merchandise from zones.


(c) To the extent zones are “activated” under U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) procedures in 19 CFR part 146, and only for the purposes specified in the Act (19 U.S.C. 81c), zones are treated for purposes of the tariff laws and customs entry procedures as being outside the customs territory of the United States. Under zone procedures, foreign and domestic merchandise may be admitted into zones for operations such as storage, exhibition, assembly, manufacture and processing, without being subject to formal customs entry procedures and payment of duties, unless and until the foreign merchandise enters customs territory for domestic consumption. At that time, the importer ordinarily has a choice of paying duties either at the rate applicable to the foreign material in its condition as admitted into a zone, or if used in production activity, to the emerging product. Quota restrictions do not normally apply to foreign goods in zones. The Board can deny or limit the use of zone procedures in specific cases on public interest grounds. Merchandise moved into zones for export (zone-restricted status) may be considered exported for purposes such as federal excise tax rebates and customs drawback. Foreign merchandise (tangible personal property) admitted to a zone and domestic merchandise held in a zone for exportation are exempt from certain state and local *ad valorem* taxes (19 U.S.C. 81o(e)). Articles admitted into zones for purposes not specified in the Act shall be subject to the tariff laws and regular entry procedures, including the payment of applicable duties, taxes, and fees.




