# § 413.302   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart— 


*Area wage level* means the average wage per hour for all classifications of employees as reported by health care facilities within a specified area. 


*Census region* means one of the 9 census divisions, comprising the 50 States and the District of Columbia, established by the Bureau of the Census for statistical and reporting purposes. 


*Routine capital-related costs* means the capital-related costs, allowable for Medicare purposes (as described in subpart G of this part), that are allocated to the SNF participating inpatient routine service cost center as reported on the Medicare cost report. 


*Routine operating costs* means the cost of regular room, dietary, and nursing services, and minor medical and surgical supplies for which a separate charge is not customarily made. It does not include the costs of ancillary services, capital-related costs, or, where appropriate, return on equity. 


*Rural area* means any area outside an urban area in a census region. 


Urban area means—


(1) Prior to October 1, 2004, a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), or New England County Metropolitan Area (NECMA), as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or a New England county deemed to be an urban area as listed in § 412.62(f)(1)(ii)(B) of this chapter.


(2) Effective October 1, 2004, a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, or a New England county deemed to be an urban area as specified under § 412.64.



---

[N] [60 FR 37594, July 21, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 49265, Aug. 11, 2004]




