# § 104.2   Eligibility definitions and requirements.

(a) *Categories of claims*—(1) *Group A claims.* A claim is a Group A claim if the Special Master has transmitted a final award determination by sending a letter postmarked and transmitted on or before December 17, 2015 indicating the total amount of compensation to which the claimant is entitled for that claim, pursuant to the regulations and methodology in effect on December 17, 2015.


(2) *Group B claims.* A claim is a Group B claim if it is not a Group A claim. An individual can have both Group A claims and Group B claims.


(b) *Eligible claimants.* The term eligible claimants means:


(1) Individuals present at a 9/11 crash site at the time of or in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist-related aircraft crashes and who suffered physical harm, as defined herein, as a direct result of the crashes or the rescue and recovery efforts or debris removal;


(2) The Personal Representatives of deceased individuals aboard American Airlines flights 11 or 77 and United Airlines flights 93 or 175; and


(3) The Personal Representatives of individuals who were present at a 9/11 crash site at the time of or in the immediate aftermath of the crashes and who died as a direct result of the terrorist-related aircraft crash or the rescue and recovery efforts during the immediate aftermath of such crashes or the debris removal during the immediate aftermath of such crashes.


(4) The term eligible claimants does not include any individual or representative of an individual who is identified to have been a participant or conspirator in the terrorist-related crashes of September 11.


(c) *Immediate aftermath.* The term immediate aftermath means any period beginning with the terrorist-related aircraft crashes of September 11, 2001, and ending on May 30, 2002.


(d) *Physical harm.* The term physical harm shall mean:


(1) A WTC-Related Physical Health Condition; or


(2) A physical injury to the body resulting from the 9/11 attacks that was treated by a medical professional within a reasonable time from the date of discovering such harm and is verifiable by medical records created by or at the direction of the medical professional who provided the medical care contemporaneously with the care; but


(3) Not including any Mental Health Condition.


(e) *Mental Health Condition.* The term Mental Health Condition shall mean a mental health condition described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) or (3)(B) of section 3312(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300 mm-22(a)), or any mental health condition certified under section 3312(b)(2)(B)(iii) of such Act (including such certification as applied under section 3322(a) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(a) of such Act), or a mental health condition described in section 3322(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(b)(2)) of such Act, or any other mental health condition.


(f) *Personal Representative.* The term Personal Representative shall mean the person determined to be the Personal Representative under § 104.4 of this part.


(g) *WTC Health Program.* The term WTC Health Program means the World Trade Center Health Program established by Title I of Public Law 111-347 (codified at Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300mm through 300mm-61).


(h) *WTC Program Administrator.* The WTC Program Administrator shall mean the WTC Program Administrator as defined in section 3306 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-5).


(i) *WTC-Related Physical Health Condition.* The term WTC-Related Physical Health Condition means a WTC-related health condition listed in Section 3312(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-22(a)), including the conditions listed in section 3322(b) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 300mm-32(b)), and including those health conditions added by the WTC Program Administrator through rulemaking pursuant to the Public Health Service Act, 42 CFR part 88, except that such term shall not include any Mental Health Condition.


(j) *9/11 crash site.* The term 9/11 crash site means:


(1) The World Trade Center site, Pentagon site, and Shanksville, Pennsylvania site; or


(2) The buildings or portions of buildings that were destroyed as a result of the terrorist-related airplane crashes of September 11, 2001; or


(3) The area in Manhattan that is south of the line that runs along Canal Street from the Hudson River to the intersection of Canal Street and East Broadway, north on East Broadway to Clinton Street, and east on Clinton Street to the East River; and


(4) Any area related to, or along, routes of debris removal, such as barges and Fresh Kills.




