# § 751.405   DecaBDE.

(a) *Prohibition*—(1) *General.* (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, all persons are prohibited from all manufacturing and processing of decaBDE or decaBDE-containing products or articles after March 8, 2021, and all persons are prohibited from all distribution in commerce of decaBDE or decaBDE-containing products or articles after January 6, 2022.


(ii) Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the prohibitions and restrictions of this subpart do not apply to products or articles containing decaBDE at concentrations less than 0.1% by weight, if the decaBDE was not intentionally added to the product or article.




(2) *Phase-in of Prohibitions for Specific Uses of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing Products or Articles.* (i) After July 6, 2022, all persons are prohibited from all manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce decaBDE for use in curtains in the hospitality industry, and the curtains to which decaBDE has been added.


(ii) After January 6, 2023, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in wire and cable insulation in nuclear power generation facilities (including test and research reactors).




(iii) After January 8, 2024, all persons are prohibited from all manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in parts installed in and distributed as part of new aerospace vehicles, and the parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles. After the end of the aerospace vehicles service lives, all persons are prohibited from all importing, processing, and distribution in commerce of aerospace vehicles manufactured before January 8, 2024 that contain decaBDE in any part. After the end of the aerospace vehicles service lives, all persons are prohibited from all manufacture, processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in replacement parts for aerospace vehicles, and the replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles.


(iv) After the end of the vehicles service lives or 2036, whichever is earlier, all persons are prohibited from all manufacture, processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE for use in replacement parts for motor vehicles, and the replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added for such vehicles.


(v) After the end of the pallets' service life, all persons are prohibited from all distribution in commerce of plastic shipping pallets that contain decaBDE and were manufactured prior March 8, 2021.


(vi) After the end of the wire and cables' service life, all persons are prohibited from all processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE-containing wire and cable insulation for nuclear power generation facilities (including test and research reactors).






(b) *Exclusions to the Prohibition.* Distribution in commerce and recycling of decaBDE-containing plastic from products or articles, and processing and distribution in commerce of decaBDE-containing products or articles made from such recycled plastic, where no new decaBDE is added during the recycling or production processes is not subject to the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section.




(c) *Recordkeeping.* (1) After March 8, 2021, all persons who manufacture, process, or distribute in commerce decaBDE or decaBDE-containing products or articles must maintain ordinary business records, such as invoices and bills-of-lading related to compliance with the prohibitions, restrictions, and other provisions of this section.


(i) These records must be maintained for a period of five years from the date the record is generated.




(ii) These records must include a statement that the decaBDE or the decaBDE-containing products or articles are in compliance with 40 CFR 751.405(a).


(iii) These records must be made available to EPA upon request.




(2) The recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (c)(1) do not apply to the activities described in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) and (b) of this section.


(d) *Signage in regulated areas.* (1) After January 21, 2025, all persons who process, including recycle, plastic shipping pallets that contain decaBDE must place signs at every entry point into the regulated area.


(2) Each sign must show clearly, prominently, in multiple languages as appropriate, and in an easily readable font size the following text:


(e) *Workplace protection*—(1) *Applicability.* After January 21, 2025, the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply to any workplaces engaged in manufacturing and processing of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing products and articles, except for those identified in paragraph (e)(6) of this section.


(2) *Regulated areas.* Owners or operators must establish and maintain regulated areas as defined in 40 CFR 751.403.


(i) The owner or operator must limit access to regulated areas to authorized persons.


(ii) The owner or operator must demarcate regulated areas from the rest of the workplace in a manner that adequately establishes and alerts persons to the boundaries of the regulated area and minimizes the number of authorized persons exposed to decaBDE within the regulated area.


(iii) The owner or operator must ensure that each potentially exposed person is provided with a respirator according to the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section and must ensure that all potentially exposed persons within the regulated area are using the provided respirators whenever exposures to airborne concentrations of decaBDE can reasonably be expected.


(iv) The owner or operator must ensure that while persons are wearing respirators in the regulated area, they do not engage in activities that interfere with respirator seal or performance.


(v) The owner or operator must ensure that, within a regulated area, persons do not engage in non-work activities that may increase exposure to decaBDE.


(3) *Respiratory protection.* The owner or operator must provide respiratory protection to all potentially exposed persons in the regulated area as demarcated in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and according to the provisions outlined in 29 CFR 1910.134(b), (c)(1), (3) and (4), (d)(1)(iv), (f), and (g) through (l) and, as specified in this paragraph (e)(3) for potentially exposed persons to decaBDE during expected time of use.


(i) For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), cross-referenced provisions in 29 CFR 1910.134 applying to an “employee” apply equally to potentially exposed persons and cross-referenced provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators. Other terms in cross-referenced provisions in 29 CFR 1910.134 that are defined in 29 CFR 1910.134(b) have the meaning assigned to them in 29 CFR 1910.134(b).


(ii) Owners and operators must develop and administer a written respiratory protection program consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(c)(1), (3) and (4).


(iii) Owners and operators must select respiratory protection that properly fits each affected person and communicate respirator selections to each affected person consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(f).


(iv) Owners and operators must provide, ensure use of, and maintain (in a sanitary, reliable, and undamaged condition) respiratory protection that is of safe design and construction for the applicable condition of use consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(g) through (j).


(v) Prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving potential exposure to decaBDE, owners and operators must provide training to all persons required to use respiratory protection consistent with 29 CFR 1910.134(k).


(vi) Owners and operators must retrain all persons required to use PPE at least annually, or whenever the owner or operator has reason to believe that a previously trained person does not have the required understanding and skill to properly use PPE, or when changes in the workplace or in PPE to be used render the previous training obsolete.


(vii) The type of respiratory protection that the owners or operator must select and provide to potentially exposed persons must be at least as protective as a NIOSH-approved N95 respirator (APF 10).


(viii) Owners and operators must select and provide respirators as required in paragraph (e)(3) of this section consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(d)(1)(iv), and with consideration of workplace and user factors that affect respirator performance and reliability.


(ix) Owners and operators must ensure that respirators are used in compliance with the terms of the respirator's NIOSH certification.


(x) Owners and operators must conduct regular evaluations of the workplace, including consultations with potentially exposed persons using respiratory protection, consistent with the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134(l), to ensure that the provisions of the written respiratory protection program required under paragraph (e)(3) of this section are being effectively implemented.


(xi) The respiratory protection requirements in this paragraph (e)(3) represent the minimum respiratory protection requirements, such that any respirator affording a higher degree of protection than the required respirator may be used.


(4) *Dermal protection.* (i) Owners or operators must require the donning of gloves that are chemically resistant to decaBDE with activity-specific training where dermal contact with decaBDE is reasonably expected. Owners or operators must minimize and protect potentially exposed persons from dermal exposure in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132.


(ii) Owners or operators must supply and require the donning of dermal PPE that separates and provides a barrier to prevent direct dermal contact with decaBDE in the specific work area where it is selected for use, selected in accordance with this paragraph (e)(4) and provided in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132(h), to each person who is reasonably likely to be dermally exposed in the work area through direct dermal contact with decaBDE. For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(4), provisions in 29 CFR 1910.132(h) applying to an “employee” also apply equally to potentially exposed persons, and provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators.


(iii) Dermal PPE that is of safe design and construction for the work to be performed must be provided, used, and maintained in a sanitary, reliable, and undamaged condition. Owners and operators must select PPE that properly fits each affected person and communicate PPE selections to each affected person.


(iv) Owners or operators must provide training in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.132(f) to all persons required to use dermal protection prior to or at the time of initial assignment to a job involving exposure to decaBDE. For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(4), provisions in 29 CFR 1910.132(f) applying to an “employee” also apply equally to potentially exposed persons, and provisions applying to an “employer” also apply equally to owners or operators.


(v) Owners and operators must retrain each person required to use dermal protection at least annually or whenever the owner or operator has reason to believe that a previously trained person does not have the required understanding and skill to properly use dermal protection, or when changes in the workplace or in dermal protection to be used render the previous training obsolete.


(5) *Workplace protection records.* (i) The owner or operator of workplaces engaged in the manufacturing and processing of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing products and articles, except for those identified in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, must retain records of:


(A) The name, workplace address, work shift, job classification, and work area of each person reasonably likely to directly handle decaBDE or handle equipment or materials on which decaBDE may be present;


(B) The basis for the regulated area as defined in § 751.403, including monitoring data and documentation of any controls or combination of controls that have reduced exposure to where airborne concentrations of decaBDE can no longer reasonably be expected resulting in a smaller or no regulated area being established;


(C) The type of PPE selected by the owner or operator for use by each of these persons, the respiratory protection used by each potentially exposed person, and PPE program implementation, including fit-testing and training;


(D) The basis for the PPE selection (*e.g.,* demonstration based on permeation testing or manufacturer specifications that each item of PPE selected provides an impervious barrier to prevent exposure during expected duration and conditions of exposure, including the likely combinations of chemical substances to which the PPE may be exposed in the work area); and


(E) Appropriately sized PPE and training on proper application, wear, and removal of PPE, and proper care/disposal of PPE.


(ii) These records must be maintained for a period of five years from the date the record is generated.


(iii) These records must be made available to EPA upon request.


(iv) The owner or operator must provide potentially exposed persons and their designate representative an opportunity to observe records related to the basis of the PPE or another control measure selection, including potential monitoring results that are representative of the potentially exposed person's exposure.


(6) *Exclusions.* The following are not subject to the workplace protection requirements of paragraph (e) of this section:


(i) Import of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing products and articles.


(ii) Recycling of decaBDE-containing plastic from products or articles and decaBDE-containing products or articles made from such recycled plastic, where no new decaBDE is added during the recycling or production processes, except for those articles identified in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section.


(iii) Processing addressed in paragraph (a)(2)(vi) of this section of decaBDE-containing wire and cable insulation for use in nuclear power generation facilities.


(iv) Processing of new and replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added for motor and aerospace vehicles, and the motor and aerospace vehicles that contain new and replacement parts to which decaBDE has been added.




(f) *Export notification for decaBDE-containing products and articles.* All persons intending to export decaBDE-containing wire and cable for nuclear power generation facilities (including test and research reactors) are required to notify EPA under TSCA section 12(b) and the provisions of subpart D of 40 CFR part 707. The exemption at 40 CFR 707.60(b) does not apply to decaBDE-containing wire and cable for nuclear power generation facilities.




(g) *Prohibition on releases to water.* After January 21, 2025, all persons are prohibited from releasing decaBDE to water during manufacturing, processing, and distribution in commerce of decaBDE and decaBDE-containing products, and such persons are required to follow any applicable regulations for preventing the release of decaBDE.







---

[N] [86 FR 894, Jan. 6, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 91514, Nov. 19, 2024]




