# § 766.106   Agency notification of decision regarding a complete application.

The Agency will send the borrower notification of the Agency's decision within 60 calendar days after receiving a complete application for loan servicing. Except that when a real estate appraisal is involved, the Agency will send the borrower notification of the Agency's decision within 90 calendar days after receiving a complete application.




(a) *Notification to financially distressed or current borrowers.* (1) If the borrower can develop a feasible plan and is eligible for primary loan servicing, the Agency will offer to service the account.


(i) The borrower will have 45 days to accept the offer of servicing. After accepting the Agency's offer, the borrower must execute loan agreements and security instruments, as appropriate.


(ii) If the borrower does not accept the offer, the Agency will send the borrower another notification of the availability of loan servicing if the borrower becomes 90 days past due in accordance with § 766.101(a)(2).


(2) If the borrower cannot develop a feasible plan, or is not eligible for loan servicing, the Agency will send the borrower the calculations used and the reasons for the adverse decision.


(i) The borrower may request reconsideration, mediation and appeal in accordance with 7 CFR parts 11 and 780 of this title.


(ii) The Agency will send the borrower another notification of the availability of loan servicing if the borrower becomes 90 days past due in accordance with § 766.101(a)(2).


(b) *Notification to borrowers 90 days past due or in non-monetary default.* (1) If the borrower can develop a feasible plan and is eligible for primary loan servicing, the Agency will offer to service the account.


(i) The borrower will have 45 days to accept the offer of servicing. After accepting the Agency's offer, the borrower must execute loan agreements and security instruments, as appropriate.


(ii) If the borrower does not timely accept the offer, or fails to respond, the Agency will notify the borrower of its intent to accelerate the account.


(2) If the borrower cannot develop a feasible plan, or is not eligible for loan servicing, the Agency will send the borrower notification within 15 days, including the calculations used and reasons for the adverse decision, of its intent to accelerate the account in accordance with subpart H of this part, unless the account is resolved through any of the following options:


(i) The borrower may request reconsideration, mediation or voluntary meeting of creditors, or appeal in accordance with 7 CFR parts 11 and 780.


(ii) The borrower may request negotiation of appraisal within 30 days in accordance with § 766.115.


(iii) If the net recovery value of non-essential assets is sufficient to pay the account current, the borrower has 90 days to pay the account current.


(iv) The borrower, if eligible in accordance with § 766.113, may buy out the loans at the current market value within 90 days.


(v) The borrower may request homestead protection if the borrower's primary residence was pledged as security by providing the information required under § 766.151.



---

[N] [72 FR 63316, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 43392, Aug. 9, 2021]




