# § 131.580   Servicing of inflatable liferafts, inflatable lifejackets, inflatable buoyant apparatus, and inflated rescue boats.

(a) An inflatable liferaft or inflatable buoyant apparatus must be serviced at a facility specifically approved by the Commandant for the particular brand, and in accordance with servicing procedures meeting the requirements of part 160, subpart 160.151, of this chapter—


(1) No later than the month and year on its servicing sticker affixed under 46 CFR 160.151-57(n), except that servicing may be delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the vessel, provided that the delay does not exceed 5 months; and


(2) Whenever the container is damaged or the container straps or seals are broken.


(b) Each inflatable lifejacket and hybrid inflatable lifejacket or work vest must be serviced:


(1) Within 12 months of its initial packing; and


(2) Within 12 months of each subsequent servicing, except that servicing may be delayed until the next scheduled inspection of the OSV, provided that the delay does not exceed 5 months.


(c) Each inflatable lifejacket must be serviced in compliance with subpart 160.176 of this chapter. 


(d) Each hybrid inflatable lifejacket or work vest must be serviced in accordance with the manual provided under § 160.077-29 of this chapter. 


(e) Repair and maintenance of inflatable rescue boats must follow the manufacturers' instructions. Each repair, except an emergency repair made aboard the vessel, must be made at a servicing facility approved by the Commandant (CG-ENG). 



---

[N] [CGD 82-004 and CGD 86-074, 62 FR 49340, Sept. 19, 1997, as amended by USCG-2002-11118, 67 FR 58541, Sept. 17, 2002; USCG-2009-0702, 74 FR 49235, Sept. 25, 2009; USCG-2012-0832, 77 FR 59782, Oct. 1, 2012]




