# § 370.6   What definitions apply?

(a) Definitions in EDGAR at 34 CFR part 77.


(b) Definitions in 2 CFR part 200, subpart A.


(c) Other definitions. The following definitions also apply to this part:


*Act* means the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.


*Advocacy* means pleading an individual's cause or speaking or writing in support of an individual. Advocacy may be formal, as in the case of a lawyer representing an individual in a court of law or in formal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy also may be informal, as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual in negotiations, mediation, or informal administrative proceedings before government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal), or as in the case of a lawyer or non-lawyer representing an individual's cause before private entities or organizations, or government agencies (whether tribal, State, local, or Federal). Advocacy may be on behalf of—


(1) A single individual, in which case it is individual advocacy;


(2) More than one individual or a group of individuals, in which case it is systems (or systemic) advocacy, but systems or systemic advocacy, for the purposes of this part, does not include class actions, or


(3) Oneself, in which case it is self advocacy.


*American Indian Consortium* means that entity described in § 370.2(a).


*Class action* means a formal legal suit on behalf of a group or class of individuals filed in a Federal or State court that meets the requirements for a “class action” under Federal or State law. “Systems (or systemic) advocacy” that does not include filing a formal class action in a Federal or State court is not considered a class action for purposes of this part.


*Client or client-applicant* means an individual receiving or seeking services under the Act, respectively.


*Designated agency* means the agency designated by the Governor under § 370.2 or the protection and advocacy system serving the American Indian Consortium that is conducting a CAP under this part.


*Mediation* means the act or process of using an independent third party to act as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator to settle differences or disputes between persons or parties. The third party who acts as a mediator, intermediary, or conciliator may not be any entity or individual who is connected in any way with the eligible system or the agency, entity, or individual with whom the individual with a disability has a dispute. Mediation may involve the use of professional mediators or any other independent third party mutually agreed to by the parties to the dispute.


*Protection and Advocacy System* has the meaning set forth at § 370.2(a).


*Services under the Act* means vocational rehabilitation, independent living, supported employment, and other similar rehabilitation services provided under the Act. For purposes of the CAP, the term “services under the Act” does not include activities carried out under the protection and advocacy program authorized by section 509 of the Act (*i.e.,* the Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights (PAIR) program, 34 CFR part 381).


*State* means, in addition to each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, The United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, except for purposes of the allotments under § 370.30, in which case “State” does not mean or include Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


