# § 1271.37   Non-administrative expenses; assessments.

(a) *Interest expenses.* The Financing Corporation shall determine anticipated interest expenses on its obligations at least semiannually.


(b) *Assessments on insured depository institutions*—(1) *Authority.* To provide sufficient funds to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35, the Financing Corporation shall, with the approval of the board of directors of the FDIC, assess against each insured depository institution an assessment in the same manner as assessments are made by the FDIC under section 7 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817).


(2) *Assessment rate*—(i) *Determination.* The Financing Corporation at least semiannually shall establish an assessment rate formula, which may include rounding methodology, to determine the rate or rates of the assessment it will assess against insured depository institutions pursuant to section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) *Notice.* The Financing Corporation shall notify the FDIC and the collection agent, if any, of the formula established under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Collecting assessments*—(i) *Collection agent.* The Financing Corporation shall have authority to collect assessments made under section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section through a collection agent of its choosing.


(ii) *Accounts.* Each Bank shall permit any insured depository institution whose principal place of business is in its district to establish and maintain at least one demand deposit account to facilitate collection of the assessments made under section 21(f)(2) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(2)) and paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Receivership proceeds*—(1) *Authority.* To the extent the amounts collected under paragraph (b) of this section are insufficient to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35, the Financing Corporation shall have authority to require the FDIC to transfer receivership proceeds to the Financing Corporation in accordance with section 21(f)(3) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(f)(3)).


(2) *Procedure.* The Directorate shall request in writing that the FDIC transfer the receivership proceeds to the Financing Corporation. Such request shall specify the estimated amount of funds required to pay the non-administrative expenses of the Financing Corporation approved under § 1271.35.


(d)(1) *Final assessments.* All Financing Corporation assessments collected during 2019 shall be final. Subsequent to March 29, 2019, no insured depository institution shall have any right to receive refunds for any overpayment of any prior Financing Corporation assessments nor shall it be billed for any underpayment of any prior Financing Corporation assessments that arise as a result of an amendment to any Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income on which the prior Financing Corporation assessment had been based.


(2) *Amendments to call reports.* Amendments to an institution's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for quarters prior to and including the fourth quarter of 2018 shall not affect an institution's Financing Corporation assessments after March 26, 2019.


(3) *June 2019 assessment.* In the event Financing Corporation assessments are collected in June 2019, amendments to an institution's first quarter 2019 Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income that are submitted after June 25, 2019 shall not affect the institution's Financing Corporation assessment.



---

[N] [78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 63058, Dec. 7, 2018]




