# ยง 105.410   Submission and approval.

(a) The owner or operator of each facility currently in operation must either:


(1) Submit one copy of their Facility Security Plan (FSP) for review and approval to the cognizant COTP and a letter certifying that the FSP meets applicable requirements of this part; or


(2) If intending to operate under an Approved Alternative Security Program, a letter signed by the facility owner or operator stating which approved Alternative Security Program the owner or operator intends to use.


(b) Owners or operators of facilities not in service on or before December 31, 2003, must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section 60 days prior to beginning operations.


(c) The cognizant COTP will examine each submission for compliance with this part and either:


(1) Approve it and specify any conditions of approval, returning to the submitter a letter stating its acceptance and any conditions;


(2) Return it for revision, returning a copy to the submitter with brief descriptions of the required revisions; or


(3) Disapprove it, returning a copy to the submitter with a brief statement of the reasons for disapproval.


(d) An FSP may be submitted and approved to cover more than one facility where they share similarities in design and operations, if authorized and approved by each cognizant COTP.


(e) Each facility owner or operator that submits one FSP to cover two or more facilities of similar design and operation must address facility-specific information that includes the design and operational characteristics of each facility and must complete a separate Facility Vulnerability and Security Measures Summary (Form CG-6025), for each facility covered by the plan. The form is available at *https://www.dcms.uscg.mil/forms/.*

(f) A FSP that is approved by the cognizant COTP is valid for five years from the date of its approval.



---

[N] [USCG-2003-14732, 68 FR 39322, July 1, 2003; 68 FR 41916, July 16, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 60542, Oct. 22, 2003; USCG-2004-19963, 70 FR 74669, Dec. 16, 2005; USCG-2013-0397, 78 FR 39173, July 1, 2013; USCG-2007-28915, 81 FR 57713, Aug. 23, 2016; USCG-2020-0304, 85 FR 58278, Sept. 18, 2020]




