# ยง 451.11   Effluent limitations attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available (BPT).

Except as provided in 40 CFR 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart must meet the following requirements, expressed as practices (or any modification to these requirements as determined by the permitting authority based on its exercise of its best professional judgment) representing the application of BPT:


(a) *Solids control.* The permittee must:


(1) Employ efficient feed management and feeding strategies that limit feed input to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to achieve production goals and sustain targeted rates of aquatic animal growth in order to minimize potential discharges of uneaten feed and waste products to waters of the U.S.


(2) In order to minimize the discharge of accumulated solids from settling ponds and basins and production systems, identify and implement procedures for routine cleaning of rearing units and off-line settling basins, and procedures to minimize any discharge of accumulated solids during the inventorying, grading and harvesting aquatic animals in the production system.


(3) Remove and dispose of aquatic animal mortalities properly on a regular basis to prevent discharge to waters of the U.S., except in cases where the permitting authority authorizes such discharge in order to benefit the aquatic environment.


(b) *Materials storage.* The permittee must:


(1) Ensure proper storage of drugs, pesticides, and feed in a manner designed to prevent spills that may result in the discharge of drugs, pesticides or feed to waters of the U.S.


(2) Implement procedures for properly containing, cleaning, and disposing of any spilled material.


(c) *Structural maintenance.* The permittee must:


(1) Inspect the production system and the wastewater treatment system on a routine basis in order to identify and promptly repair any damage.


(2) Conduct regular maintenance of the production system and the wastewater treatment system in order to ensure that they are properly functioning.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The permittee must:


(1) In order to calculate representative feed conversion ratios, maintain records for aquatic animal rearing units documenting the feed amounts and estimates of the numbers and weight of aquatic animals.


(2) Keep records documenting the frequency of cleaning, inspections, maintenance and repairs.


(e) *Training.* The permittee must:


(1) In order to ensure the proper clean-up and disposal of spilled material adequately train all relevant facility personnel in spill prevention and how to respond in the event of a spill.


(2) Train staff on the proper operation and cleaning of production and wastewater treatment systems including training in feeding procedures and proper use of equipment.




