# § 725.413   Disclosure of medical information.

(a) For purposes of this section, medical information is any written medical data, including data in electronic format, about the miner that a party develops in connection with a claim for benefits, including medical data developed with any prior claim that has not been disclosed previously to the other parties. Medical information includes, but is not limited to—


(1) Any examining physician's written or testimonial assessment of the miner, including the examiner's findings, diagnoses, conclusions, and the results of any tests;


(2) Any other physician's written or testimonial assessment of the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition;


(3) The results of any test or procedure related to the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition, including any information relevant to the test or procedure's administration; and


(4) Any physician's or other medical professional's interpretation of the results of any test or procedure related to the miner's respiratory or pulmonary condition.


(b) For purposes of this section, medical information does not include—


(1) Any record of a miner's hospitalization or other medical treatment; or


(2) Communications from a party's representative to a medical expert.


(c) Each party must disclose medical information the party or the party's agent receives by sending a complete copy of the information to all other parties in the claim within 30 days after receipt. If the information is received after the claim is already scheduled for hearing before an administrative law judge, the disclosure must be made at least 20 days before the scheduled hearing is held (*see* § 725.456(b)).


(d) Medical information disclosed under this section must not be considered in adjudicating any claim unless a party designates the information as evidence in the claim.


(e) At the request of any party or on his or her own motion, an adjudication officer may impose sanctions on any party or his or her representative who fails to timely disclose medical information in compliance with this section.


(1) Sanctions must be appropriate to the circumstances and may only be imposed after giving the party an opportunity to demonstrate good cause why disclosure was not made and sanctions are not warranted. In determining an appropriate sanction, the adjudication officer must consider—


(i) Whether the sanction should be mitigated because the party was not represented by an attorney when the information should have been disclosed; and


(ii) Whether the party should not be sanctioned because the failure to disclose was attributable solely to the party's attorney.


(2) Sanctions may include, but are not limited to—


(i) Drawing an adverse inference against the non-disclosing party on the facts relevant to the disclosure;


(ii) Limiting the non-disclosing party's claims, defenses or right to introduce evidence;


(iii) Dismissing the claim proceeding if the non-disclosing party is the claimant and no payments prior to final adjudication have been made to the claimant unless the Director agrees to the dismissal in writing (*see* § 725.465(d));


(iv) Rendering a default decision against the non-disclosing party;


(v) Disqualifying the non-disclosing party's attorney from further participation in the claim proceedings; and


(vi) Relieving a claimant who files a subsequent claim from the impact of § 725.309(c)(6) if the non-disclosed evidence predates the denial of the prior claim and the non-disclosing party is the operator.


(3) Sanctions must not include—


(i) Fines or


(ii) Imprisonment.


(4) Sanctions imposed by a district director are subject to review by an administrative law judge in accordance with the provisions of this part.


(f) This rule applies to—


(1) All claims filed after May 26, 2016;


(2) Pending claims not yet adjudicated by an administrative law judge, except that medical information received prior to May 26, 2016 and not previously disclosed must be provided to the other parties within 60 days of May 26, 2016; and


(3) Pending claims already adjudicated by an administrative law judge where—


(i) The administrative law judge reopens the record for receipt of additional evidence in response to a timely reconsideration motion (*see* § 725.479(b)) or after remand by the Benefits Review Board or a reviewing court; or


(ii) A party requests modification of the award or denial of benefits (*see* § 725.310(a)).



---

[N] [81 FR 24480, Apr. 26, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 31854, May 20, 2016]




