# ยง 410.63   Hepatitis B vaccine and blood clotting factors: Conditions.

Notwithstanding the exclusion from coverage of vaccines (see ยง 411.15 of this chapter) and self-administered drugs (see ยง 410.29), the following services are included as medical and other health services covered under ยง 410.10, subject to the specified conditions: 


(a) *Hepatitis B vaccine: Conditions.* Effective January 1, 2025, hepatitis B vaccinations are reasonable and necessary for the prevention of illness for those individuals who are at high or intermediate risk of contracting hepatitis B as listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) *High risk groups.* (i) End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients; 


(ii) Hemophiliacs who receive Factor VIII or IX concentrates; 


(iii) Clients of institutions for individuals with intellectual disabilities; 


(iv) Persons who live in the same household as a hepatitis B carrier; 


(v) Homosexual men; 


(vi) Illicit injectable drug abusers; 


(vii) Pacific Islanders (that is, those Medicare beneficiaries who reside on Pacific islands under U.S. jurisdiction, other than residents of Hawaii); and 


(viii) Persons diagnosed with diabetes mellitus.


(2) *Intermediate risk groups.* (i) Staff in institutions for individuals with intellectual disabilities and classroom employees who work with individuals with intellectual disabilities; 


(ii) Workers in health care professions who have frequent contact with blood or blood-derived body fluids during routine work (including workers who work outside of a hospital and have frequent contact with blood or other infectious secretions);


(iii) Heterosexually active persons with multiple sexual partners (that is, those Medicare beneficiaries who have had at least two documented episodes of sexually transmitted diseases within the preceding 5 years); and


(iv) Individuals who have not previously received a completed hepatitis B vaccination series or whose previous vaccination history is unknown.


(3) *Exception.* Individuals described in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section are not considered at high or intermediate risk of contracting hepatitis B if they have undergone a prevaccination screening and have been found to be currently positive for antibodies to hepatitis B. 


(b) *Blood clotting factors: Conditions.* Effective July 18, 1984, blood clotting factors that are self-administered and control bleeding for hemophilia patients competent to use these factors without medical or other supervision, and items related to the administration of those factors. Therapies that enable the body to produce clotting factor and do not directly integrate into the coagulation cascade are not themselves clotting factors. The amount of clotting factors covered under this provision is determined by the carrier based on the historical utilization pattern or profile developed by the carrier for each patient, and based on consideration of the need for a reasonable reserve supply to be kept in the home in the event of emergency or unforeseen circumstance.


(c) *Blood clotting factors: Furnishing Fee.* (1) Effective January 1, 2005, a furnishing fee of $0.14 per unit of clotting factor is paid to entities that furnish blood clotting factors, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless the costs associated with furnishing the clotting factor are paid through another payment system, for example, hospitals that furnish clotting factor to patients during a Part A covered inpatient hospital stay, or practitioners that furnish clotting factor to patients in an outpatient setting and are paid for under the Physician Fee Schedule.


(2) The furnishing fee for blood clotting factors furnished in 2006 or a subsequent year is be equal to the furnishing fee paid the previous year increased by the percentage increase in the consumer price index for medical care for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year.



---

[N] [55 FR 22790, June 4, 1990; 55 FR 31186, Aug. 1, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 66422, Nov. 15, 2004; 77 FR 69363, Nov. 16, 2012; 87 FR 70223, Nov. 18, 2022; 89 FR 98556, Dec. 9, 2024]




