# ยง 700.291   Petitions for amendment: Time limits for processing.

(a) *Acknowledgement of receipt.* The acknowledgement of receipt of a petition required by ยง 700.289(c) shall be dispatched not later than ten (10) days (Saturdays, Sundays and public legal holidays excepted) after receipt of the petition by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record, unless a decision on the petition has been previously dispatched.


(b) *Decision on petition.* A petition for amendment shall be processed promptly. A determination whether to accept or reject the petitioned for amendment shall be made within no more than thirty (30) days (Saturdays, Sundays, and public legal holidays excepted) after receipt of the petition by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(c) *Suspension of time limit.* The thirty (30) day time limit for a decision on a petition shall be suspended if it is necessary to notify the petitioner, pursuant to ยง 700.289(d) that additional information in support of the petition is required. Running of the thirty (30) day time limit shall resume on receipt of the additional information by the system manager responsible for the system containing the challenged record.


(d) *Extensions of time.* (1) The thirty (30) day time limit for a decision on a petition may be extended if the official responsible for making a decision on the petition determines that an extension is necessary for one of the following reasons:


(i) A decision on the petition requires analysis of voluminous record or records;


(ii) Some or all of the challenged records must be collected from facilities other than the facility at which the official responsible for making the decision is located.


(2) If the official responsible for making a decision on the petition determines that an extension is necessary, he shall promptly inform the petitioner of the extension and the date on which a decision is expected to be dispatched.




