# § 283.2   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Abortions* means induced pregnancy terminations, including both medically and surgically induced pregnancy terminations. This term does not include spontaneous abortions, i.e., miscarriages.


*Act* means the Social Security Act.


*Bonus* refers to the Bonus to Reward Decrease in Illegitimacy Ratio, as set forth in section 403(a)(2) of the Act.


*Calculation period* refers to the four calendar years used for determining the decrease in the out-of-wedlock birth ratios for a bonus year. (The years included in the calculation period change from year to year.)


*Most recent two-year period for which birth data are available* means the most recent two calendar years for which the National Center for Health Statistics has released final birth data by State.


*Most recent year for which abortion data are available* means the year that is two calendar years prior to the current calendar year. (For example, for eligibility determinations made during calendar year 1999, the most recent year for which abortion data are available would be calendar year 1997.)


*NCHS* means the National Center for Health Statistics, of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


*Number of out-of-wedlock births for the State* means the final number of births occurring outside of marriage to residents of the State, as reported in NCHS vital statistics data.


*Number of total births for the State* means the final total number of live births to residents of the State, as reported in NCHS vital statistics data.


*Rate of abortions* means the number of abortions reported by the State in the most recent year for which abortion data are available divided by the State's total number of resident live births reported in vital statistics for that same year. (This measure is also more traditionally known as the “abortion to live birth ratio.”)


*Ratio* refers to the ratio of live out-of-wedlock births to total live births, as defined in § 283.5(b).


*State* means the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, as provided in section 419(a)(5) of the Act.


*Vital statistics data* means the data reported by State health departments to NCHS, through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program (VSCP).


*We (and any other first person plural pronouns)* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services or any of the following individuals or organizations acting in an official capacity on the Secretary's behalf: the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families, the Regional Administrators for Children and Families, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Administration for Children and Families.




