# ยง 123.5   Temporary export licenses.

(a) The Directorate of Defense Trade Controls may issue a license for the temporary export of unclassified defense articles (DSP-73). Such licenses are valid only if the article will be exported for a period of less than 4 years and will be returned to the United States and transfer of title will not occur during the period of temporary export. Accordingly, articles exported pursuant to a temporary export license may not be sold or otherwise permanently transferred to a foreign person while they are overseas under a temporary export license. A renewal of the license or other written approval must be obtained from the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls if the article is to remain outside the United States beyond the period for which the license is valid.


(b) *Requirements.* Defense articles authorized for temporary export under this section may be shipped only from a port in the United States where a Port Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection is available, or from a U.S. Post Office (see 39 CFR part 20), as appropriate. The license for temporary export must be presented to the Port Director of U.S. Customs and Border Protection who, upon verification, will endorse the exit column on the reverse side of the license. The license for temporary export must be electronically submitted to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions. In the event a physical license is required by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the licensee is to retain the duly endorsed license for temporary export in accordance with ยง 123.22(b) of this subchapter. In the case of a military aircraft or vessel temporarily exported under its own power, evidence that the Department of State has duly authorized it to leave the United States must be readily available on board the aircraft or vessel.


(c) Any temporary export license for hardware that is used, regardless of whether the hardware was exported directly to the foreign destination or returned directly from the foreign destination, must be endorsed by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accordance with the procedures in ยง 123.22 of this subchapter.



---

[N] [70 FR 50960, Aug. 29, 2005, as amended at 82 FR 17, Jan. 3, 2017] 




