# § 628.10   Minimum capital requirements.

(a) *Computation of regulatory capital ratios.* A System institution's regulatory capital ratios are determined on the basis of the financial statements of the institution prepared in accordance with GAAP using average daily balances for the most recent 3 months.


(b) *Minimum capital requirements.* A System institution must maintain the following minimum capital ratios:


(1) A common equity tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio of 4.5 percent.


(2) A tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent.


(3) A total capital ratio of 8 percent.


(4) A tier 1 leverage ratio of 4 percent, of which at least 1.5 percent must be composed of URE and URE equivalents.


(5) [Reserved]


(6) A permanent capital ratio of 7 percent.


(c) *Capital ratio calculations.* A System institution's regulatory capital ratios are as follows:


(1) *CET1 capital ratio.* A System institution's CET1 capital ratio is the ratio of the System institution's CET1 capital to total risk-weighted assets;


(2) *Tier 1 capital ratio.* A System institution's tier 1 capital ratio is the ratio of the System institution's tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets;


(3) *Total capital ratio.* A System institution's total capital ratio is the ratio of the System institution's total (tier 1 and tier 2) capital to total risk-weighted assets; and


(4) *Tier 1 leverage ratio.* (i) A System institution's leverage ratio is the ratio of the institution's tier 1 capital to the institution's average total consolidated assets as reported on the institution's Call Report net of deductions and adjustments from tier 1 capital under §§ 628.22(a), (b), and (c) and 628.23.


(ii) To calculate the measure of URE and URE equivalents described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a System institution must adjust URE and URE equivalents to reflect all the deductions and adjustments required under § 628.22(a), (b), and (c), and must use the denominator of the tier 1 leverage ratio.


(5) *Permanent capital ratio.* A System institution's permanent capital ratio is the ratio of the institution's permanent capital to its total risk-adjusted asset base as reported on the institution's Call Report, calculated in accordance with the regulations in part 615, subpart H, of this chapter.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Capital adequacy.* (1) Notwithstanding the minimum requirements in this part, a System institution must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of all risks to which the System institution is exposed. FCA may evaluate a System institution's capital adequacy and require the institution to maintain higher minimum regulatory capital ratios using the factors listed in § 615.5350 of this chapter.


(2) A System institution must have a process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital under § 615.5200 of this chapter.



---

[N] [81 FR 49779, July 28, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 54358, Oct. 1, 2021]




