# ยง 136.509   Reconsideration and appeals.

(a) Any Service Unit to whom payment from the CHEF is denied will be notified of the denial in writing together with a statement of the reason for the denial within 130 business days from receipt.


(b) If a decision on the CHEF case is not made by the CHEF Program Manager within 180 calendar days from receipt, the Service Unit that submitted the claim may choose to appeal it as a deemed denial.


(c) In order to seek review of a denial decision or deemed denial, the Service Unit must follow the procedures set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Within 40 business days from the receipt of the denial provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the Service Unit may submit a request in writing for reconsideration of the original denial to the Division of Contract Care. The request for reconsideration must include, as applicable, corrections to the original claim submission necessary to overcome the denial; or a statement and supporting documentation establishing that the original denial was in error. If no additional information is submitted the original denial will stand. The Service Unit may also request a telephone conference with the Division of Contract Care, to further explain the materials submitted, which shall be scheduled within 40 business days from receipt of the request for review. A decision by the Division of Contract Care shall be made within 130 business days of the request for review. The Division of Contract Care Director, or designee, shall review the application *de novo* with no deference to the original decision maker or to the applicant.


(2) If the original decision is affirmed on reconsideration, the Service Unit will be notified in writing and advised that an appeal may be taken to the Director, Indian Health Service, within 40 business days of receipt of the denial. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth the grounds supporting the appeal. The Service Unit may also request a telephone conference through the Division of Contract Care, which shall be scheduled with the Director or a representative designated by the Director, to further explain the grounds supporting the appeal. A decision by the Director shall be made within 180 calendar days of the request for reconsideration. The decision of the Director, Indian Health Service or designee, shall constitute the final administrative action.






