# ยง 9008.50   Scope and definitions.

(a) *Scope.* This subpart B governs registration and reporting by host committees and municipal funds representing convention cities. Unsuccessful efforts to attract a convention need not be reported by any city, committee or other organization. Subpart B also describes permissible sources of funds and other permissible donations to host committees and municipal funds. In addition, subpart B describes permissible disbursements by host committees and municipal funds to defray convention expenses and to promote the convention city and its commerce.


(b) *Definition of host committee.* A *host committee* is any local organization, such as a local civic association, business league, chamber of commerce, real estate board, board of trade, or convention bureau, that satisfies all of the following conditions:


(1) It is not organized for profit;


(2) Its net earnings do not inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual; and


(3) Its principal purpose is the encouragement of commerce in the convention city, as well as the projection of a favorable image of the city to convention attendees.


(c) *Definition of municipal fund.* A *municipal fund* is any fund or account of a government agency, municipality, or municipal corporation whose principal purpose is the encouragement of commerce in the municipality and whose receipt and use of funds is subject to the control of officials of the State or local government.



---

[N] [68 FR 47417, Aug. 8, 2003]




