# § 721.11099   Fluorinated organopolysilazane (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as a fluorinated organopolysilazane (PMN P-16-221) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(6)(particulate), (v), (vi), (b)(concentrations set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (p)(204 kilograms) and (s)(100 kilograms). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than in the confidential coating system allowed in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) Order.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 49035, Sept. 18, 2019]




