# § 202.12   Restored copyrights.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes rules pertaining to the registration of foreign copyright claims which have been restored to copyright protection under section 104A of 17 U.S.C., as amended by the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, Public Law 103-465.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) For the purposes of this section, *restored work* and *source country*, have the definition given in 17 U.S.C. 104(A)(g)(6) and (8) and § 201.33(b) of this chapter.


(2) *Descriptive statement for a work embodied solely in machine-readable format* is a separate written statement giving the title of the work, nature of the work (for example: computer program, database, videogame, etc.), plus a brief description of the contents or subject matter of the work.


(c) *Registration*—(1) *Application.* Applications for registration for single works restored to copyright protection under the URAA should be made on Form GATT. Copies of this form may be obtained from the Office's website or by contacting the Public Information Office at (202) 707-3000. Applicants should submit the completed application with the appropriate filing fee and deposit copies and materials required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section in the same package by mail or electronically, in accordance with instructions for submission and payment provided on the Office's website or Form GATT itself.




(2) *Fee.* The filing fee for registering a copyright claim in a restored work is prescribed in § 201.3(c) of this chapter.




(3) *Deposit*—(i) *General.* The deposit for a work registered as a restored work under 17 U.S.C. 104A, except for those works listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section, should consist of one copy or phonorecord which best represents the copyrightable content of the restored work. In descending order of preference, the deposit should be:


(A) The work as first published;


(B) A reprint or re-release of the work as first published;


(C) A photocopy or identical reproduction of the work as first published; or


(D) A revised version which includes a substantial amount of the copyrightable content of the restored work with an indication in writing of the percentage of the restored work appearing in the revision.


(ii) *Previously registered works.* No deposit is needed for works previously registered in the Copyright Office.


(iii) *Works embodied solely in machine-readable format.* For works embodied only in machine-readable formats, the deposit requirements are as follows:


(A) One machine-readable copy and a descriptive statement of the work; or


(B) Representative excerpts of the work, such as printouts; or, if the claim extends to audiovisual elements in the work, a videotape of what appears on the screen.


(iv) *Pictorial, graphic and sculptural works.* With the exception of 3-dimensional works of art, the general deposit preferences specified under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section shall govern. For 3-dimensional works of art, the preferred deposit is one or more photographs of the work, preferably in color.


(v) *Special relief.* An applicant who is unable to submit any of the preferred deposits may submit an alternative deposit under a grant of special relief under § 202.20(d). In such a case, the applicant should indicate in writing why the deposit preferences cannot be met, and submit alternative identifying materials clearly showing some portion of the copyrightable contents of the restored work which is the subject of registration.


(vi) *Motion pictures.* If the deposit is a film print (16 or 35 mm), the applicant should contact the Performing Arts Division of the Registration Program for delivery instructions. The telephone number is: (202) 707-6040; the fax number is: (202) 707-1236.


(d) *Works excluded.* Works which are not copyrightable subject matter under title 17 of the U.S. Code, other than sound recordings fixed before February 15, 1972, shall not be registered as restored works.



---

[N] [60 FR 50422, Sept. 29, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 12902, Mar. 16, 1999; 64 FR 29522, June 1, 1999; 71 FR 31092, June 1, 2006; 72 FR 36888, July 6, 2007; 73 FR 37839, July 2, 2008; 78 FR 42875, July 18, 2013; 82 FR 9359, Feb. 6, 2017; 85 FR 19668, Apr. 8, 2020; 87 FR 59308, Sept. 30, 2022]




