# ยง 1918.95   Sanitation.

(a) *Washing and toilet facilities.* (1) Accessible washing and toilet facilities sufficient for the sanitary requirements of employees shall be readily accessible at the worksite. The facilities shall have: 


(i) Running water, including hot and cold or tepid water, at a minimum of one accessible location (when longshoring operations are conducted at locations without permanent facilities, potable water may be provided instead of running water); 


(ii) Soap; 


(iii) Individual hand towels, clean individual sections of continuous toweling, or air blowers; and 


(iv) Fixed or portable toilets in separate compartments with latch-equipped doors. Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for male and female employees unless toilet rooms will be occupied by only one person at a time. 


(2) Washing and toilet facilities shall be regularly cleaned and maintained in good order. 


(b) *Drinking water.* (1) Potable drinking water shall be accessible to employees at all times. 


(2) Potable drinking water containers shall be clean, containing only water and ice, and shall be fitted with covers. 


(3) Common drinking cups are prohibited. 


(c) *Prohibited eating areas.* Consumption of food or beverages in areas where hazardous materials are stowed or being handled is prohibited. 


(d) *Garbage and overboard discharges.* Work shall not be conducted close to uncovered garbage or in the way of overboard discharges from the vessel's sanitary lines unless employees are protected from the garbage or discharge by a baffle or splash boards. 



---

[N] [62 FR 40202, July 25, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 33610, June 8, 2011]




