# ยง 406.175   Appeal from initial decision.

(a) *Notice of appeal.* A party may appeal the initial decision, and any decision not previously appealed pursuant to 406.173, by filing with the Federal Docket Management System and serving on each party a notice of appeal. A party must file the notice of appeal not later than 10 days after entry of the oral initial decision on the record or service of the written initial decision on the parties.


(b) *Issues on appeal.* A party may appeal only the following issues: 


(1) Whether each finding of fact is supported by a preponderance of reliable, probative, and substantial evidence; 


(2) Whether each conclusion of law is made in accordance with applicable law, precedent, and public policy; and 


(3) Whether the administrative law judge committed any prejudicial errors during the hearing that support the appeal. 


(c) *Perfecting an appeal.* Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party must perfect an appeal, not later than 50 days after entry of the oral initial decision on the record or service of the written initial decision on the party, by filing an appeal brief. 


(1) *Extension of time by agreement of the parties.* The parties may agree to extend the time for perfecting the appeal with the consent of the FAA decisionmaker, who serves a letter confirming the extension of time on each party. 


(2) *Motion for extension.* If the parties do not agree to an extension of time for perfecting an appeal, a party desiring an extension of time may file a motion for an extension and must serve a copy of the motion on each party. The FAA decisionmaker may grant an extension if good cause for the extension is shown in the motion.


(d) *Appeal briefs.* A party must file the appeal brief with the Federal Docket Management System and serve each party.


(1) A party must set forth, in detail, the party's specific objections to the initial decision or rulings in the appeal brief. A party also must set forth, in detail, the basis for the appeal, the reasons supporting the appeal, and the relief requested in the appeal. If the party relies on evidence contained in the record for the appeal, the party must specifically refer to the pertinent evidence contained in the record in the appeal brief. 


(2) The FAA decisionmaker may dismiss an appeal, on the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative or upon motion of any other party, where a party has filed a notice of appeal but fails to perfect the appeal by timely filing an appeal brief. 


(e) *Reply brief.* Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, any party may file a reply brief with the Federal Docket Management System and serve on each other party not later than 35 days after the appeal brief has been served on that party. If the party relies on evidence contained in the record for the reply, the party must specifically refer to the pertinent evidence contained in the record in the reply brief.


(1) *Extension of time by agreement of the parties.* The parties may agree to extend the time for filing a reply brief with the consent of the FAA decisionmaker, who will serve a letter confirming the extension of time on each party. 


(2) *Motion for extension.* If the parties do not agree to an extension of time for filing a reply brief, a party desiring an extension of time may file and serve a motion for an extension and must serve a copy of the motion on each party. The FAA decisionmaker may grant an extension if good cause for the extension is shown in the motion. 


(f) *Other briefs.* The FAA decisionmaker may allow any person to submit an amicus curiae brief in an appeal of an initial decision. A party may not file more than one appeal brief or reply brief without permission of the FAA decisionmaker. A party may file with the Federal Docket Management System a motion for permission to file an additional brief and must serve a copy of the motion on each other party. The party may not file the additional brief with the motion. The FAA decisionmaker may grant permission to file an additional brief if the party demonstrates good cause for allowing additional argument on the appeal. The FAA decisionmaker will allow a reasonable time for the party to file the additional brief.


(g) *Number of copies.* A party must file the original brief and two copies of the brief with the Federal Docket Management System and serve one copy on each other party.


(h) *Oral argument.* The FAA decisionmaker has sole discretion to permit oral argument on the appeal. On the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative or upon written motion by any party, the FAA decisionmaker may find that oral argument will contribute substantially to the development of the issues on appeal and may grant the parties an opportunity for oral argument. 


(i) *Waiver of objections on appeal.* If a party fails to object to any alleged error regarding the proceedings in an appeal or a reply brief, the party waives any objection to the alleged error. The FAA decisionmaker is not required to consider any objection or argument in a brief if the party does not specifically refer in the brief to the pertinent evidence from the record. 


(j) *FAA decisionmaker's decision on appeal.* The FAA decisionmaker will review the record, the briefs on appeal, and the oral argument, if any, to determine if the administrative law judge committed prejudicial error in the proceedings or that the initial decision should be affirmed, modified, or reversed. The FAA decisionmaker may affirm, modify, or reverse the initial decision, make any necessary findings, or may remand the case for any proceedings that the FAA decisionmaker determines may be necessary. 


(1) The FAA decisionmaker may raise any issue, on the FAA decisionmaker's own initiative, that is required for proper disposition of the proceedings. The FAA decisionmaker will give the parties a reasonable opportunity to submit arguments on the new issues before making a decision on appeal. If an issue raised by the FAA decisionmaker requires the consideration of additional testimony or evidence, the FAA decisionmaker will remand the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings and an initial decision related to that issue. If an issue raised by the FAA decisionmaker is solely an issue of law or the issue was addressed at the hearing but was not raised by a party in the briefs on appeal, a remand of the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings is not required but may be provided in the discretion of the FAA decisionmaker. 


(2) The FAA decisionmaker will issue the final decision and order of the Administrator on appeal in writing and will serve a copy of the decision and order on each party. 


(3) A final decision and order of the FAA decisionmaker is precedent in any other civil penalty action under this part. Any issue, finding or conclusion, order, ruling, or initial decision of an administrative law judge that has not been appealed to the FAA decisionmaker is not precedent in any other civil penalty action. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2001-8607, 66 FR 2180, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 68477, Dec. 5, 2007]




