# § 10400.8   Expedited and multi-track processing, and aggregation of requests for processing.

(a) *Expedited processing.* (1) A request for expedited processing may be made at any time. IPEC must process requests and appeals on an expedited basis whenever it is determined that they involve:


(i) Circumstances in which the lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(ii) An urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity, beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally, and the request is made by a person primarily engaged in disseminating information.


(2) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. For example, under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, a requester who is not a full-time member of the news media must establish that the requester is a person who is primarily engaged in information dissemination, though it need not be the requester's sole occupation. Such a requester also must establish a particular urgency to inform the public about the government activity involved in the request, beyond the public's right to know about government activity generally. The existence of numerous articles published on a given subject can be helpful in establishing the requirement that there be an “urgency to inform” the public on the topic. The formality of certification may be waived as a matter of administrative discretion.


(3) Within 10 calendar days of IPEC's receipt of a request for expedited processing, IPEC will decide whether to grant it and will notify the requester of the decision. If a request for expedited processing is granted, the request will be given priority and will be processed as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision will be acted on expeditiously.


(b) *Multi-track processing.* IPEC will ordinarily respond to requests in order of their receipt. However, IPEC may use multi-track processing in responding to requests. Multi-track processing means placing requests in a track based on the estimated amount of work or time involved in processing the request. Thus, simple requests that require a limited review would be placed in one processing track, and more voluminous and complex requests would be placed in other processing tracks. Requests in each track are processed on a first-in, first-out basis and, if a request is placed in a track, IPEC will inform the requester of the track placement. Track one is for requests that have received expedited processing under this section. Track two is for requests of simple-to-moderate complexity that do not involve voluminous records and do not require consultation or coordination with other entities or submitter review under § 10400.18. Track three is for complex requests that involve voluminous records, require lengthy or numerous consultations or coordination, raise unique or novel legal questions, or require submitter review under § 10400.18. In the case of requests in tracks two and three, IPEC may provide requesters the opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing. IPEC will do so by contacting the requester by letter, telephone, email, or facsimile (whichever is more efficient in each case). When providing a requester with the opportunity to limit the scope of a request, IPEC shall also advise the requester of IPEC's FOIA Public Liaison to aid in the resolution of any dispute arising between the requester and IPEC as well as the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.


(c) *Aggregating requests.* IPEC may aggregate requests in cases where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, involve related matters and constitute a single request that otherwise would involve “unusual circumstances” under § 10400.9. For example, IPEC may aggregate multiple requests for similar information filed by a single requester within a short period of time. In addition, as discussed in § 10400.16, IPEC may aggregate requests for fee purposes.






