# § 9.292   Comptche.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Comptche”. For purposes of part 4 of this chapter, “Comptche” is a term of viticultural significance.


(b) *Approved maps.* The one United States Geological Survey (USGS) 1:24,000 scale topographic map used to determine the boundary of the viticultural area is titled Comptche, California (provisional edition 1991).


(c) *Boundary.* The Comptche viticultural area is located in Mendocino County, California. The boundary of the Comptche viticultural area is as described as follows:


(1) The beginning point is on the Comptche map at the intersection of a north-south tributary of the Albion River and an unnamed improved road known locally as Comptche Ukiah Road, section 12, T16N/R16W. From the beginning point, proceed northwest in a straight line, crossing an unnamed, unimproved road known locally as Surprise Valley Road, to the 400-foot elevation contour, section 12, T16N/R16W; then


(2) Proceed north, then easterly along the 400-foot elevation contour to its intersection with an unnamed, unimproved road southeast of the marked 517-foot peak in section 1, T16N/R16W; then


(3) Proceed southeasterly along the unnamed, unimproved road to its intersection with an unnamed, unimproved road known locally as Surprise Valley Road, section 1, T16N/R16W; then


(4) Proceed northeasterly along Surprise Valley Road to its intersection with an unnamed, unimproved road known locally as North Fork Road, section 1, T16N/R16 W; then


(5) Proceed northwesterly along North Fork Road to its intersection with an unnamed, unimproved road known locally as Docker Hill Road in section 36, T17N/R16W; then


(6) Proceed north along Docker Hill Road to its intersection with the 400-foot elevation contour, section 36, T17N/R16W; then


(7) Proceed easterly along the 400-foot elevation contour to its intersection with the North Fork of the Albion River in section 37, T17N/R15W; then


(8) Continue in a generally southerly direction along the 400-foot elevation contour to its intersection with an unnamed intermittent creek in section 6, T16N/R15W; then


(9) Proceed south in a straight line to the 400-foot elevation contour, section 6, T16N/R15W; then


(10) Proceed southeasterly, then north, then southeasterly along the meandering 400-foot elevation contour to its intersection with the Albion River in section 8, T16N/R15W; then


(11) Proceed westerly along the Albion River to its intersection with a north-south tributary in section 12, T16N/R16W; then


(12) Proceed northeasterly along the tributary, returning to the beginning point.


(d) *Exclusion.* The Comptche viticultural area as described in this section is not included within the North Coast viticultural area as described in § 9.30.



---

[N] [TTB-2023-0003; T.D. TTB-192, 89 FR 24380, Apr. 8, 2024]






