# § 721.8100   Potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) cocoamine oxide phosphate, and potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) tallowamine oxide phosphate.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new use subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substances, identified by their chemical names and CAS Number are subject to reporting under this part for the significant new use identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) cocoamine oxide phosphate (CAS Number 855712-26-1), and potassium N,N-bis (hydroxyethyl) tallowamine oxide phosphate (CAS Number 855712-27-2). 


(2) The significant new use is: Use in a consumer product at concentrations greater than five percent by weight.


(b) *Specific Requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions in § 721.3, the following definitions apply to this section:


“Consumer” means any natural person who uses products for personal rather than business purposes.


“Consumer product” means any chemical substance which is directly, or as part of a mixture, sold or made available to consumers for their use in or around a permanent or temporary household or residence, in or around a school, or in recreation.


(2) *Persons who must report.* The provisions of § 721.5 apply to determine persons who must report under this section, except § 721.5(a)(2) does not apply to a person who intends to distribute either of the substances in commerce as part of a mixture at concentrations of five percent or less by weight of the mixture.


(3) *Notice requirements and procedures.* Section 721.10 applies to this section, except a person submitting a notice must complete only Parts I and II of the notice form.



---

[N] [49 FR 35018, Sept. 5, 1984. Redesignated at 53 FR 2845, Feb. 2, 1988. Further redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




