# § 12.120   Definitions.

Except as otherwise provided below, the terms used in §§ 12.121 through 12.127 have the meanings set forth for those terms in TSCA.


(a) *Article*—(1) *Article* means a manufactured item which:


(i) Is formed to a specific shape or design during manufacture,


(ii) Has end use functions dependent in whole or in part upon its shape or design during the end use, and


(iii) Has either no change of chemical composition during its end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial purpose separate from that of the article and that may occur as described in § 12.120(a)(2); except that fluids and particles are not considered articles regardless of shape or design.


(2) The allowable changes of composition, referred to in § 12.120(a)(1), are those which result from a chemical reaction that occurs upon the end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles such as adhesives, paints, miscellaneous cleaners or other household products, fuels and fuel additives, water softening and treatment agents, photographic films, batteries, matches, and safety flares in which the chemical substance manufactured upon end use of the article is not itself manufactured for distribution in commerce or for use as an intermediate.


(b) *TSCA chemical substance in bulk form.* “TSCA chemical substance in bulk form” means a chemical substance as set forth in section 3(2) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2)) (other than as part of an article) in containers used for purposes of transportation or containment, provided that the chemical substance is intended to be removed from the container and has an end use or commercial purpose separate from the container.


(c) *TSCA chemical substance as part of a mixture.* “TSCA chemical substance as part of a mixture” means a chemical substance as set forth in section 3(2) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2)) that is part of a combination of two or more chemical substances as set forth in section 3(10) of TSCA.


(d) *TSCA-excluded chemicals.* “TSCA-excluded chemicals” means any chemicals that are excluded from the definition of TSCA chemical substance by section 3(2)(B) (ii)-(vi) of TSCA, (15 U.S.C. 2602(2) (B) (ii)-(vi)) (other than as part of a mixture), regardless of form.


(e) *Covered commodity.* “Covered commodity” means merchandise that meets the terms of one of the definitions specified in paragraph (a), (b), or (d) of this section or that is a mixture as defined in TSCA.


(f) *Administrator.* “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).



---

[N] [T.D. 83-158, 48 FR 34739, Aug. 1, 1983, as amended by CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]




