# § 615.5201   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Allocated investment* means earnings allocated but not paid in cash by a System bank to an association or other recipient.


*Deferred tax assets (DTAs)* means an amount of income taxes refundable or recoverable in future years as a result of temporary differences and net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that exist at the reporting date. There are three types of DTAs and they arise from:


(1) A temporary difference that a System institution could realize through a net loss carryback;


(2) A temporary difference that a System institution could not realize through net loss carryback; and


(3) An operating loss and tax credit carryforward.


*Nonagreeing association* means an association that does not have an allotment agreement in effect with a Farm Credit Bank or agricultural credit bank pursuant to § 615.5207(b)(2).


*Permanent capital,* subject to adjustments as described in § 615.5207, includes:


(1) Current year earnings;


(2) Allocated and unallocated earnings (which, in the case of earnings allocated in any form by a System bank to any association or other recipient and retained by the bank, must be considered, in whole or in part, permanent capital of the bank or of any such association or other recipient as provided under an agreement between the bank and each such association or other recipient);


(3) All surplus;


(4) Stock issued by a System institution, except:


(i) Stock that may be retired by the holder of the stock on repayment of the holder's loan, or otherwise at the option or request of the holder;


(ii) Stock that is protected under section 4.9A of the Act or is otherwise not at risk;


(iii) Farm Credit Bank equities required to be purchased by Federal land bank associations in connection with stock issued to borrowers that is protected under section 4.9A of the Act;


(iv) Capital subject to revolvement, unless:


(A) The bylaws of the System institution clearly provide that there is no express or implied right for such capital to be retired at the end of the revolvement cycle or at any other time; and


(B) The System institution clearly states in the notice of allocation that such capital may only be retired at the sole discretion of the board of directors in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and that the institution does not grant any express or implied right to have such capital retired at the end of the revolvement cycle or at any other time;


(5) [Reserved]


(6) Financial assistance provided by the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation that the FCA determines appropriate to be considered permanent capital; and


(7) Any other debt or equity instruments or other accounts the FCA has determined are appropriate to be considered permanent capital. The FCA may permit one or more System institutions to include all or a portion of such instrument, entry, or account as permanent capital, permanently or on a temporary basis, for purposes of this part.


*Preferred stock* means stock that is permanent capital and has dividend and/or liquidation preference over common stock.


*Risk-adjusted asset base* means “standardized total risk-weighted assets” as defined in § 628.2 of this chapter, adjusted in accordance with § 615.5207 and excluding the deduction in paragraph (2) of that definition for the amount of the System institution's adjusted allowance for credit losses that is not included in tier 2 capital.


*Stock* means stock and participation certificates.


*System bank* means a Farm Credit bank as defined in § 619.9140 of this chapter, which includes Farm Credit Banks, agricultural credit banks, and banks for cooperatives.


*System institution* means a System bank, an association of the Farm Credit System, and their successors, and any other institution chartered by the Farm Credit Administration (FCA) that the FCA determines should be considered a System institution for the purposes of this subpart.


*Term preferred stock* means preferred stock with an original maturity of at least 5 years and on which, if cumulative, the board of directors has the option to defer dividends, provided that, at the beginning of each of the last 5 years of the term of the stock, the amount that is eligible to be counted as permanent capital is reduced by 20 percent of the original amount of the stock (net of redemptions).



---

[N] [81 FR 49773, July 28, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 54356, Oct. 1, 2021; 87 FR 27492, May 9, 2022]




