# ยง 98.523   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from each ceramics process unit using the procedures in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.


(a) For each ceramics process unit that meets the conditions specified in ยง 98.33(b)(4)(ii) or (iii), you must calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure CO_2_ emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.


(b) For each ceramics process unit that is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate and report the process and combustion CO_2_ emissions from the ceramics process unit separately by using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) For each carbonate-based raw material (including clay) charged to the ceramics process unit, either obtain the mass fractions of any carbonate-based minerals from the supplier of the raw material or by sampling the raw material, or use a default value of 1.0 as the mass fraction for the raw material.


(2) Determine the quantity of each carbonate-based raw material charged to the ceramics process unit.


(3) Apply the appropriate emission factor for each carbonate-based raw material charged to the ceramics process unit. Table 1 to this subpart provides emission factors based on stoichiometric ratios for carbonate-based minerals.


(4) Use equation 1 to this paragraph (b)(4) to calculate process mass emissions of CO_2_ for each ceramics process unit:


(5) Determine the combined annual process CO_2_ emissions from the ceramic process units at your facility using equation 2 to this paragraph (b)(5):


(6) Calculate and report under subpart C of this part the combustion CO_2_ emissions in the ceramics process unit according to the applicable requirements in subpart C of this part.


(c) A value of 1.0 can be used for the mass fraction (MF_i_) of carbonate-based mineral i in each carbonate-based raw material *j* in equation 1 to paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The use of 1.0 for the mass fraction assumes that the carbonate-based raw material comprises 100% of one carbonate-based mineral. As an alternative to the default value, you may use data provided by either the raw material supplier or a lab analysis.






