# § 61.344   Standards: Surface impoundments.

(a) The owner or operator shall meet the following standards for each surface impoundment in which waste is placed in accordance with § 61.342(c)(1)(ii) of this subpart:


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain on each surface impoundment a cover (e.g., air-supported structure or rigid cover) and closed-vent system that routes all organic vapors vented from the surface impoundment to a control device. 


(i) The cover shall meet the following requirements:


(A) The cover and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart.


(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that waste is in the surface impoundment except when it is necessary to use the opening for waste sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.


(C) If the cover and closed-vent system operate such that the enclosure of the surface impoundment is maintained at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure, then paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section does not apply to any opening that meets all of the following conditions: 


(*1*) The purpose of the opening is to provide dilution air to reduce the explosion hazard;


(*2*) The opening is designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart; and 


(*3*) The pressure is monitored continuously to ensure that the pressure in the enclosure of the surface impoundment remains below atmospheric pressure. 


(D) The cover shall be used at all times that waste is placed in the surface impoundment except during removal of treatment residuals in accordance with 40 CFR 268.4 or closure of the surface impoundment in accordance with 40 CFR 264.228. (Note: the treatment residuals generated by these activities may be subject to the requirements of this part.)


(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with § 61.349 of this subpart.


(b) Each cover seal, access hatch, and all other openings shall be checked by visual inspection initially and quarterly thereafter to ensure that no cracks or gaps occur and that access hatches and other openings are closed and gasketed properly.


(c) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, when a broken seal or gasket or other problem is identified, or when detectable emissions are measured, first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after identification. 



---

[N] [55 FR 8346, Mar. 7, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 3097, Jan. 7, 1993]




