# § 4.7c   Vessel stow plan.

*Vessel stow plan required.* In addition to the advance filing requirements pursuant to §§ 4.7 and 4.7a of this part and the container status message requirements pursuant to § 4.7d of this part, for all vessels subject to § 4.7(a) of this part, except for any vessel exclusively carrying break bulk cargo or bulk cargo as prescribed in § 4.7(b)(4) of this part, the incoming carrier must submit a vessel stow plan consisting of vessel and container information as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section within the time prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section via the CBP-approved electronic data interchange system.


(a) *Time of transmission.* Customs and Border Protection (CBP) must receive the stow plan no later than 48 hours after the vessel departs from the last foreign port. For voyages less than 48 hours in duration, CBP must receive the stow plan prior to arrival at the first U.S. port.


(b) *Vessel information required to be reported.* The following information must be reported for each vessel:


(1) Vessel name (including international maritime organization (IMO) number);


(2) Vessel operator; and


(3) Voyage number.


(c) *Container information required to be reported.* The following information must be reported for each container carried on each vessel:


(1) Container operator;


(2) Equipment number;


(3) Equipment size and type;


(4) Stow position;


(5) Hazmat code (if applicable);


(6) Port of lading; and


(7) Port of discharge.


(d) *Compliance date of this section*—(1) *General.* Subject to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, all affected ocean carriers must comply with the requirements of this section on and after January 26, 2010.


(2) *Delay in compliance date of section.* CBP may, at its sole discretion, delay the general compliance date set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section in the event that any necessary modifications to the approved electronic data interchange system are not yet in place or for any other reason. Notice of any such delay will be provided in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [CBP Dec. 08-46, 73 FR 71779, Nov. 25, 2008]




