# ยง 603.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:


*Adverse Determination* shall mean a decision to withhold any requested Record in whole or in part; a decision that the requested Record does not exist or cannot be located; a decision that the requested information is not a Record subject to the Privacy Act; a decision that a Record, or part thereof, does not require amendment or correction; a decision to refuse to disclose an accounting of disclosure; and a decision to deny a fee waiver. The term shall also encompass a challenge to NCPC's determination that Records have not been described adequately, that there are no responsive Records or that an adequate search has been conducted.


*E-Government Act of 2002* shall mean Public Law 107-347, Dec. 17, 2002, 116 Stat. 2899, the privacy portions of which are set out as a note under section 3501 of title 44.


*Individual* shall mean a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Information in Identifiable Form (IIF)* shall mean information in an Information Technology system or an online collection that directly identifies an individual, *e.g.,* name, address, social security number or other identifying number or code, telephone number, email address and the like; or information by which the NCPC intends to identify specific individuals in conjunction with other data elements, *e.g.,* indirect identification that may include a combination of gender, race, birth date, geographic identifiers, and other descriptions.


*Information Technology (IT)* shall mean, as defined in the Clinger Cohen Act (40 U.S.C. 11101(6)), any equipment, software or interconnected system or subsystem that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data.


*Maintain* shall include maintain, collect, use or disseminate a Record.


*Privacy Act Officer* shall mean the individual within the NCPC charged with responsibility for coordinating and implementing NCPC's Privacy Act program.


*Privacy Act or Act* shall mean the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended and codified at 5 U.S.C. 552a.


*Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)* shall mean an analysis of how information is handled to ensure handling conforms to applicable legal, regulatory, and policy requirements regarding privacy; to determine the risks and effects of collecting, maintaining and disseminating information in identifiable form in an electronic system; and to examine and evaluate protections and alternative processes for handling information to mitigate potential privacy risks.


*Record* shall mean any item, collection, or grouping of information about an Individual that is Maintained by the NCPC, including, but not limited to, an Individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains a name, or identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the Individual, such as a finger or voice print or photograph.


*Requester* shall mean an Individual who makes a Request for Access to a Record, a Request for Amendment or Correction of a Record, or a Request for Accounting of a Record under the Privacy Act.


*Request for Access to a Record* shall mean a request by an Individual made to the NCPC pursuant to subsection (d)(1) of the Privacy Act to gain access to his/her Records or to any information pertaining to him/her in the system and to permit him/her, or a person of his/her choosing, to review and copy all or any portion thereof.


*Request for Amendment or Correction of a Record* shall mean a request made by an Individual to the NCPC pursuant to subsection (d)(2) of the Privacy Act to amend or correct a Record pertaining to him/her.


*Routine Use* shall mean with respect to disclosure of a Record, the use of such Record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which the Record is collected.


*Senior Agency Official for Privacy* (SAOP) shall mean the individual within NCPC responsible for establishing and overseeing the NCPC's Privacy Act program.


*System of Records or System* (SOR or Systems) shall mean a group of any Records under the control of the NCPC from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.


*System of Record Notice (SORN)* shall mean a notice published in the _Federal Register_ by the NCPC for each new or revised System of Records intended to solicit public comment on the System prior to implementation.


*Workday* shall mean a regular Federal workday excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal Federal holidays when the federal government is closed.




