# § 541.5   Requirements for passenger motor vehicles.

(a) Each passenger motor vehicle subject to this standard must have an identifying number affixed or inscribed on each of the parts specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(18) inclusive, if the part is present on the passenger motor vehicle. In the case of passenger motor vehicles not originally manufactured to comply with applicable U.S. vehicle safety and bumper standards, each such motor vehicle subject to this standard must have an identifying number inscribed in a manner which conforms to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, on each of the parts specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(18), inclusive, if the part is present on the motor vehicle.


(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the number required to be inscribed or affixed by paragraph (a) shall be the VIN of the passenger motor vehicle.


(2) In place of the VIN, manufacturers who were marking engines and/or transmissions with a VIN derivative consisting of at least the last eight characters of the VIN on October 24, 1984, may continue to mark engines and/or transmissions with such VIN derivative.


(3) In the case of passenger motor vehicles not originally manufactured to comply with U.S. vehicle safety and bumper standards, the number required to be inscribed by paragraph (a) of this section shall be the original vehicle identification number assigned to the motor vehicle by its original manufacturer in the country where the motor vehicle was originally produced or assembled.


(c) The characteristics of the number required to be affixed or inscribed by paragraph (a) of this section shall satisfy the size and style requirements set forth for vehicle certification labels in § 567.4(g) of this chapter.


(d) The number required by paragraph (a) of this section must be affixed by means that comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section or inscribed by means that comply with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(1) *Labels.* (i) The number must be printed indelibly on a label, and the label must be permanently affixed to the passenger motor vehicle's part.


(ii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location such that the number is, if practicable, on an interior surface of the part as installed on the vehicle and in a location where it:


(A) Will not be damaged by the use of any tools necessary to install, adjust, or remove the part and any adjoining parts, or any portions thereof;


(B) Is on a portion of the part not likely to be damaged in a collision; and


(C) Will not be damaged or obscured during normal dealer preparation operations (including rustproofing and undercoating).


(iii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location that is visible without further disassembly once the part has been removed from the vehicle.


(iv) The number must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the original manufacturer for that part, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(v) Removal of the label must—


(A) Cause the label to self-destruct by tearing or rendering the number on the label illegible, and


(B) Discernibly alter the appearance of that area of the part where the label was affixed by leaving residual parts of the label or adhesive in that area, so that investigators will have evidence that a label was originally present.


(vi) Alteration of the number on the label must leave traces of the original number or otherwise visibly alter the appearance of the label material.


(vii) The label and the number shall be resistant to counterfeiting.


(viii) The logo or some other unique identifier of the vehicle manufacturer must be placed in the material of the label in a manner such that alteration or removal of the logo visibly alters the appearance of the label.


(2) *Other means of identification.* (i) Removal or alteration of any portion of the number must visibly alter the appearance of the section of the vehicle part on which the identification is marked.


(ii) The number must be placed on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section in a location that is visible without further disassembly once the part has been removed from the vehicle.


(iii) The number must be placed entirely within the target area specified by the original manufacturer for that part, pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Target areas.* (1) Each manufacturer that is the original producer who installs or assembles the covered major parts on a line shall designate a target area for the identifying numbers to be marked on each part specified in paragraph (a) of this section for each of its lines subject to this standard. The target area shall not exceed 50 percent of the surface area on the surface of the part on which the target area is located.


(2) Each manufacturer subject to paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall, not later than 30 days before the line is introduced into commerce, inform NHTSA in writing of the target areas designated for each line subject to this standard. In those instances where a manufacturer has submitted this target area information to NHTSA with a request for confidential treatment pursuant to 49 CFR part 512, the manufacturer must also submit a complete copy of the target area information within seven (7) days after the information becomes public, or the new line is released for sale to the public, whichever comes first. The information must be submitted to: Docket Management, Room W12-140, West Building, Ground Floor, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 by any of the following methods. In all cases, the docket number for the submission, (Docket No. NHTSA-2009-0069) must be cited.


(i) Electronic submission to the Federal eRulemaking Portal: *http://www.regulations.gov.* Follow the instructions for submitting information.


(ii) *By U.S. Mail:* Docket Management Facility: U.S. Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., West Building, Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, D.C. 20590.


(iii) *Hand delivery or by courier:* 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., West Building, Ground Floor, Room W12-140, Washington, DC 20590, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. *Telephone:* 1-800-647-5527.


(iv) *By Fax transmission:* (202) 493-2251.


(3) The target areas designated by the original vehicle manufacturer for a part on a line shall be maintained for the duration of the production of such line, unless a restyling of the part makes it no longer practicable to mark the part within the original target area. If there is such a restyling, the original vehicle manufacturer shall inform NHTSA of that fact and the new target area, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 64168, Dec. 13, 1994, as amended at 69 FR 17967, Apr. 6, 2004; 76 FR 24403, May 2, 2011]




