# § 385.4   Matter incorporated by reference.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FMCSA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact FMCSA at: Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Office of Enforcement and Compliance, 1200 New Jersey Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20590; Attention: Chief, Compliance Division at (202) 366-1812. For information on inspection at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the source in the following paragraph of this section.


(b) Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), 99 M Street SE, Suite 1025, Washington, DC 20003, telephone (202) 998-1002, *www.cvsa.org.*

(1) “North American Standard Out-of-Service Criteria and Level VI Inspection Procedures and Out-of-Service Criteria for Commercial Highway Vehicles Transporting Transuranics and Highway Route Controlled Quantities of Radioactive Materials as defined in 49 CFR part 173.403,” April 1, 2024; incorporation by reference approved for § 385.415(b).




(2) “Operational Policy 4: Inspector Training and Certification”, Revised April 29, 2021 (CVSA Operational Policy 4); incorporation by reference approved for § 385.207. (Also available at *www.fmcsa.dot.gov/certification*).



---

[N] [87 FR 78582, Dec. 22, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 77014, Nov. 8, 2023; 89 FR 67562, Aug. 21, 2024]




