# ยง 4.06-3   Requirements for alcohol and drug testing following a serious marine incident.

When a marine employer determines that a casualty or incident is, or is likely to become, an SMI, the marine employer must ensure that the following alcohol and drug testing is conducted:


(a) *Alcohol testing.* (1) Alcohol testing must be conducted on each individual engaged or employed on board the vessel who is directly involved in the SMI.


(i) The alcohol testing of each individual must be conducted within 2 hours of when the SMI occurred, unless precluded by safety concerns directly related to the incident.


(ii) If safety concerns directly related to the SMI prevent the alcohol testing from being conducted within 2 hours of the occurrence of the incident, then alcohol testing must be completed as soon as the safety concerns are addressed.


(iii) Alcohol testing is not required to be conducted more than 8 hours after the occurrence of the SMI.


(2) Alcohol-testing devices must be used according to the procedures specified by the manufacturer of the testing device and by this part.


(3) If the alcohol testing required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section is not conducted, the marine employer must document on Forms CG-2692 and CG-2692B the reason why the testing was not conducted.


(4) The marine employer may use alcohol-testing results from tests conducted by Coast Guard or local law enforcement personnel to satisfy the alcohol testing requirements of this part only if the alcohol testing meets all of the requirements of this part.


(b) *Drug testing.* (1) Drug testing must be conducted on each individual engaged or employed on board the vessel who is directly involved in the SMI.


(i) The collection of drug-test specimens of each individual must be conducted within 32 hours of when the SMI occurred, unless precluded by safety concerns directly related to the incident.


(ii) If safety concerns directly related to the SMI prevent the collection of drug-test specimens from being conducted within 32 hours of the occurrence of the incident, then the collection of drug-test specimens must be conducted as soon as the safety concerns are addressed.


(2) If the drug-test specimens required in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section were not collected, the marine employer must document on Forms CG-2692 and CG-2692B the reason why the specimens were not collected.



---

[N] [USCG-2001-8773, 70 FR 75960, Dec. 22, 2005, as amended by USCG-2016-0748, 83 FR 11902, Mar. 19, 2018]




