# § 414.229   Other durable medical equipment—capped rental items.

(a) *General payment rule.* Payment is made for other durable medical equipment that is not subject to the payment provisions set forth in § 414.220 through § 414.228 as follows:


(1) For items furnished prior to January 1, 2006, payment is made on a rental or purchase option basis in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(2) For items other than power-driven wheelchairs furnished on or after January 1, 2006, payment is made in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.


(3) For power-driven wheelchairs furnished on or after January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2010, payment is made in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraphs (f) or (h) of this section.


(4) For power-driven wheelchairs that are not classified as complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchairs, furnished on or after January 1, 2011, payment is made in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraph (f) of this section.


(5) For power-driven wheelchairs classified as complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchairs, furnished on or after January 1, 2011, payment is made in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraphs (f) or (h) of this section.


(b) *Fee schedule amounts for rental.* (1) For 1989 and 1990, the monthly fee schedule amount for rental of other covered durable medical equipment equals 10 percent of the purchase price recognized as determined under paragraph (c) of this section subject to the following limitation: For 1989 and 1990, the fee schedule amount cannot be greater than 115 percent nor less than 85 percent of the prevailing charge, as determined under § 405.504 of this chapter, established for rental of the item in January 1987, as adjusted by the change in the level of the CPI-U for the 6-month period ending December 1987. 


(2) For 1991 and subsequent years, the monthly fee schedule amount for rental of other covered durable medical equipment equals 10 percent of the purchase price recognized as determined under paragraph (c) of this section for each of the first 3 months and 7.5 percent of the purchase price for each of the remaining months. 


(3) For power-driven wheelchairs furnished on or after January 1, 2011, the monthly fee schedule amount for rental equipment equals 15 percent of the purchase price recognized as determined under paragraph (c) of this section for each of the first 3 months and 6 percent of the purchase price for each of the remaining months.


(c) *Determination of purchase price.* The purchase price of other covered durable medical equipment is determined as follows: 


(1) For *1989 and 1990.* (i) The carrier determines a base local purchase price amount equal to the average of the purchase prices submitted on an assignment-related basis of new items supplied during the 6-month period ending December 1986.


(ii) The purchase price is equal to the base local purchase price adjusted by the change in the level of the CPI-U for the 6-month period ending December 1987.


(2) For *1991.* (i) The local payment amount is the purchase price for the preceding year adjusted by the covered item update for 1991 and decreased by the percentage by which the average of the reasonable charges for claims paid for all other items described in § 414.229, is lower than the average of the purchase prices submitted for such items during the final 9 months of 1988.


(ii) The purchase price for 1991 is the national limited payment amount as determined using the methodology contained in § 414.220(f).


(3) *For years after 1991.* The purchase price is determined using the methodology contained in paragraphs (d) through (f) of § 414.220. 


(d) *Purchase option.* Suppliers must offer a purchase option to beneficiaries during the 10th continuous rental month and, for power-driven wheelchairs, the purchase option must also be made available at the time the equipment is initially furnished.


(1) Suppliers must offer beneficiaries the option of purchasing power-driven wheelchairs at the time the supplier first furnishes the item. On or after January 1, 2011, this option is available only for complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchairs. Payment must be on a lump-sum fee schedule purchase basis if the beneficiary chooses the purchase option. The purchase fee is the amount established in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Suppliers must offer beneficiaries the option of converting capped rental items (including power-driven wheelchairs not purchased when initially furnished) to purchased equipment during their 10th continuous rental month. Beneficiaries have one month from the date the supplier makes the offer to accept the purchase option.


(i) If the beneficiary does not accept the purchase option, payment continues on a rental basis not to exceed a period of continuous use of longer than 15 months. After 15 months of rental payments have been paid, the supplier must continue to provide the item without charge, other than a charge for maintenance and servicing fees, until medical necessity ends or Medicare coverage ceases. A period of continuous use is determined under the provisions in § 414.230. 


(ii) If the beneficiary accepts the purchase option, payment continues on a rental basis not to exceed a period of continuous use of longer than 13 months. On the first day after 13 continuous rental months during which payment is made, the supplier must transfer title to the equipment to the beneficiary. 


(e) *Payment for maintenance and servicing.* (1) The carrier establishes a reasonable fee for maintenance and servicing for each rented item of other durable medical equipment. The fee may not exceed 10 percent of the purchase price recognized as determined under paragraph (c) of this section. 


(2) Payment of the fee for maintenance and servicing of other durable medical equipment that is rented is made only for equipment that continues to be used after 15 months of rental payments have been made and is limited to the following: 


(i) For the first 6-month period, no payments are to be made. 


(ii) For each succeeding 6-month period, payment may be made during the first month of that period. 


(3) Payment for maintenance and servicing DME purchased in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section, is made on the basis of reasonable and necessary charges. 


(f) *Rules for capped rental items furnished beginning on or after January 1, 2006.* (1) For items furnished on or after January 1, 2006, payment is made based on a monthly rental fee schedule amount during the period of medical need, but for no longer than a period of continuous use of 13 months. A period of continuous use is determined under the provisions in § 414.230.


(2) The supplier must transfer title to the item to the beneficiary on the first day that begins after the 13th continuous month in which payments are made under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(3) Payment for maintenance and servicing of beneficiary-owned equipment is made in accordance with § 414.210(e).


(g) *Additional supplier requirements for capped rental items that are furnished beginning on or after January 1, 2007.* (1) The supplier that furnishes an item for the first month during which payment is made using the methodology described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section must continue to furnish the equipment until medical necessity ends, or the 13-month period of continuous use ends, whichever is earlier, unless—


(i) The item becomes subject to a competitive acquisition program implemented in accordance with section 1847(a) of the Act;


(ii) The beneficiary relocates to an area that is outside the normal service area of the supplier that initially furnished the equipment;


(iii) The beneficiary elects to obtain the equipment from a different supplier prior to the expiration of the 13-month rental period; or


(iv) CMS or the carrier determines that an exception should apply in an individual case based on the circumstances.


(2) A capped rental item furnished under this section may not be replaced by the supplier prior to the expiration of the 13-month rental period unless:


(i) The supplier replaces an item with the same, or equivalent, make and model of equipment because the item initially furnished was lost, stolen, irreparably damaged, is being repaired, or no longer functions;


(ii) A physician orders different equipment for the beneficiary. If the need for different equipment is based on medical necessity, then the order must indicate why the equipment initially furnished is no longer medically necessary and the supplier must retain this order in the beneficiary's medical record;


(iii) The beneficiary chooses to obtain a newer technology item or upgraded item and signs an advanced beneficiary notice (ABN); or


(iv) CMS or the carrier determines that a change in equipment is warranted.


(3) Before furnishing a capped rental item, the supplier must disclose to the beneficiary its intentions regarding whether it will accept assignment of all monthly rental claims for the duration of the rental period. A supplier's intentions could be expressed in the form of a written agreement between the supplier and the beneficiary.


(4) No later than two months before the date on which the supplier must transfer title to a capped rental item to the beneficiary, the supplier must disclose to the beneficiary whether it can maintain and service the item after the beneficiary acquires title to it. CMS or its carriers may make exceptions to this requirement on a case-by-case basis.


(h) *Purchase of power-driven wheelchairs furnished on or after January 1, 2006.* (1) Suppliers must offer beneficiaries the option to purchase power-driven wheelchairs at the time the equipment is initially furnished.


(2) Payment is made on a lump-sum purchase basis if the beneficiary chooses this option.


(3) On or after January 1, 2011, this option is available only for complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchairs.



---

[N] [57 FR 57691, Dec. 7, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 35498, July 10, 1995; 71 FR 65934, Nov. 9, 2006; 75 FR 73622, Nov. 29, 2010]




