# § 355.2   What special terms do I need to know to understand this part?

*Depository institution* means:


(1) Any insured bank, mutual savings bank or savings bank as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813, or any institution eligible to become an insured bank under 12 U.S.C. 1815;


(2) Any insured credit union as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1752, or any credit union eligible to become an insured credit union under 12 U.S.C. 1781;


(3) Any member as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1422; and


(4) Any savings association as defined in 12 U.S.C. that is an insured depository institution as defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811 *et seq.,* or is eligible to become an insured depository institution under that Act.


*Fiscal agency check* means a check for a payment in connection with a United States security drawn upon a Reserve Bank and issued on our behalf by the Reserve Bank in its capacity as fiscal agent of the United States.


*Payee (or “you”)* means the person or persons to whom a fiscal agency check is made payable.


*Payor Reserve Bank* means the Reserve Bank on which a fiscal agency check is drawn.


*Presenting bank* means a depository institution that sends a fiscal agency check directly to a Reserve Bank for payment or collection.


*Reserve Bank or Federal Reserve Bank* means any Federal Reserve Bank or any branch of a Federal Reserve Bank.


*Security,* for the purpose of this part, means a direct obligation of the United States, including a Treasury bill, note, bond or savings bond/note.


*We (or “us”)* refers to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary's delegates at the Treasury Department and the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The term also extends to any fiscal or financial agency acting on behalf of the United States when designated to act by the Secretary or the Secretary's delegates. The term does not refer to a United States Savings Bond issuing or paying agent.




