# ยง 96.1   Definitions.

*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspector Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS or Service).


*Animal casings.* Intestines, stomachs, esophagi, and urinary bladders from cattle, sheep, swine, or goats that are used to encase processed meats in foods such as sausage.


*APHIS representative.* An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved.


*Authorized inspector.* Any individual authorized by the Administrator of APHIS or the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security, to enforce the regulations in this subpart.


*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture.


*Food and Drug Administration.* The Food and Drug Administration of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.


*Food Safety and Inspection Service.* The Food Safety and Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.


*Import (imported, importation) into the United States.* To bring into the territorial limits of the United States.


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and the territories and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [57 FR 28082, June 24, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 29785, July 7, 1992; 59 FR 67134, Dec. 29, 1994; 62 FR 56024, Oct. 28, 1997; 70 FR 553, Jan. 4, 2005; 72 FR 53379, Sept. 18, 2007]




