# ยง 380.2   Making payment of royalty fees.

(a) *Payment to the Collective.* A Licensee must make the royalty payments due under this part to SoundExchange, Inc., which is the Collective designated by the Copyright Royalty Board to collect and distribute royalties under this part.


(b) *Monthly payments.* A Licensee must make royalty payments on a monthly basis. Payments are due on or before the 45th day after the end of the month in which the Licensee made Eligible Transmissions.


(c) *Minimum payments.* A Licensee must make any minimum annual payments due under subpart B of this part by January 31 of the applicable license year. A Licensee that as of January 31 of any year has not made any eligible nonsubscription transmissions, noninteractive digital audio transmissions as part of a new subscription service, or Ephemeral Recordings pursuant to the licenses in 17 U.S.C. 114 and/or 17 U.S.C. 112(e), but that begins making such transmissions after that date must make any payment due by the 45th day after the end of the month in which the Licensee commences making such transmissions.


(d) *Late fees.* A Licensee must pay a late fee for each payment and each Statement of Account that the Collective receives after the due date. The late fee is 1.5% (or the highest lawful rate, whichever is lower) of the late payment amount per month. The late fee for a late Statement of Account is 1.5% of the payment amount associated with the Statement of Account. Late fees accrue from the due date until the date that the Collective receives the late payment or late Statement of Account.


(1) *Waiver of late fees.* The Collective may waive or lower late fees for immaterial or inadvertent failures of a Licensee to make a timely payment or submit a timely Statement of Account.


(2) *Notice regarding noncompliant Statements of Account.* If it is reasonably evident to the Collective that a timely-provided Statement of Account is materially noncompliant, the Collective must notify the Licensee within 90 days of discovery of the noncompliance.


(e) *Use of account numbers.* If the Collective notifies a Licensee of an account number to be used to identify its royalty payments for a particular service offering, the Licensee must include that account number on its check or check stub for any payment for that service offering made by check, in the identifying information for any payment for that service offering made by electronic transfer, in its statements of account for that service offering under ยง 380.4, and in the transmittal of its Reports of Use for that service offering under ยง 370.4 of this chapter.




