# ยง 983.351   PHA payment to owner for occupied unit.

(a) *When payments are made.* (1) During the term of the HAP contract, the PHA shall make housing assistance payments to the owner in accordance with the terms of the HAP contract. The payments shall be made for the months during which a contract unit is leased to and actually occupied by an eligible family.


(2) Except for discretionary vacancy payments in accordance with ยง 983.352, the PHA may not make any housing assistance payment to the owner for any month after the month when the family moves out of the unit (even if household goods or property are left in the unit).


(b) *Monthly payment.* Each month, the PHA shall make a housing assistance payment to the owner for each contract unit that complies with the HQS and is leased to and occupied by an eligible family in accordance with the HAP contract.


(c) *Calculating amount of payment.* The monthly housing assistance payment by the PHA to the owner for a contract unit leased to a family is the rent to owner minus the tenant rent (total tenant payment minus the utility allowance).


(d) *Prompt payment.* The housing assistance payment by the PHA to the owner under the HAP contract must be paid to the owner on or about the first day of the month for which payment is due, unless the owner and the PHA agree on a later date.


(e) *Owner compliance with contract.* To receive housing assistance payments in accordance with the HAP contract, the owner must comply with all the provisions of the HAP contract. Unless the owner complies with all the provisions of the HAP contract, the owner does not have a right to receive housing assistance payments. 




