# ยง 404.1026   Work for a church or qualified church-controlled organization.

(a) *General.* If you work for a church or qualified church-controlled organization, as described in this section, your employer may elect to have your services excluded from employment. You would then be considered to be self-employed and special conditions would apply to you. See ยง 404.1068(f) for those special conditions. The employer's election of the exclusion must be made with the Internal Revenue Service in accordance with Internal Revenue Service procedures and must state that the church or church-controlled organization is opposed for religious reasons to the payment of Social Security employment taxes. The exclusion applies to current and future employees. If you work in an unrelated trade or business (within the meaning of section 513(a) of the Code) of the church or church-controlled organization, the exclusion does not apply to your services.


(b) *What is a church.* For purposes of this section the term *church* means a church, a convention or association of churches, or an elementary or secondary school which is controlled, operated, or principally supported by a church or by a convention or association of churches.


(c) *What is a qualified church-controlled organization.* For purposes of this section the term *qualified church-controlled organization* means any church-controlled organization exempt from income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Code but does *not* include an organization which:


(1) Offers goods, services, or facilities for sale to the general public, other than on an incidental basis, or for other than a nominal charge which is substantially less than the cost of providing such goods, services, or facilities; and


(2) Normally receives more than 25 percent of its support from either governmental sources or receipts from admissions, sales of merchandise, performance of services or furnishing of facilities other than in an unrelated trade or business, or both.



---

[N] [50 FR 36573, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 7309, Mar. 1, 1990]




