# § 618.510   Eligibility period for payments of Reemployment Trade Adjustment Assistance and application deadline.

(a) *Adversely affected worker who has not received TRA.* (1) In the case of an AAW who has not received TRA, the worker may receive benefits as described in § 618.520(a) for a period not to exceed 104 weeks beginning on the earlier of:


(i) The date on which the worker exhausts all rights to UI based on the separation of the worker from the adversely affected employment that is the basis of the certification; or


(ii) The date on which the worker first begins qualifying reemployment as described in § 618.505(e).


(2) Where a worker has more than one separation from adversely affected employment, the relevant separation for determining the date on which the “worker exhausts all rights to UI” referenced in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is the worker's last separation from adversely affected employment that qualifies the worker as an AAW. The Department uses the last separation because that separation is the one that triggers the worker's application for RTAA. Accordingly, the State must determine the worker's last separation for lack of work from adversely affected employment before the RTAA application. This principle applies only to the determination of the eligibility period and does not apply to the calculation of RTAA payments, where wages at separation are defined as the annualized hourly rate at the time of the most recent separation, as explained in § 618.520(a).


(b) *Adversely affected worker who has received TRA.* In the case of an AAW who has received TRA, the worker may also receive RTAA benefits based on the same certification for a period of 104 weeks beginning on the date on which the worker first begins qualifying reemployment, reduced by the total number of weeks for which the worker received such TRA.


(c) *Applicable dates.* To make the RTAA determination, the State will need to know the applicable dates for the AAW: The date of reemployment and either the date the worker exhausted all rights to UI, or the dates the worker began and ended receipt of TRA before the date of reemployment. These dates must occur within the 104-week eligibility period identified in the Act.


(d) *Age of AAW when obtaining RTAA-qualifying employment.* An AAW may obtain employment before turning 50 years old and receive RTAA benefits after turning 50 years old, if the employment is determined to be RTAA-qualifying reemployment, as provided at § 618.505(e), and the RTAA eligibility period established after obtaining such employment has not expired when the individual turned 50 years old.


(e) *Exception to filing deadline and eligibility periods.* The filing deadline and eligibility periods in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply where:


(1) A negative determination on a petition filed under subpart B of this part has been appealed to the USCIT;


(2) A certification of the worker group covered by that petition is later made; and


(3) The delay in the certification is not attributable to the petitioner or the AAW.


(f) *Reasonable accommodation of filing deadline and eligibility periods.* In the event the filing deadline and eligibility periods in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply because the certification meets the conditions in paragraph (e) of this section, the filing deadline and eligibility periods for RTAA will be extended by the State for the period necessary to make RTAA reasonably available to AAWs.




