# ยง 405.2467   Requirements of the FQHC PPS.

(a) *Cost reporting.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2014, FQHCs are paid the lesser of their actual charges or the FQHC PPS rate that does all of the following:


(1) Includes a process for appropriately describing the services furnished by FQHCs.


(2) Establishes payment rates for specific payment codes based on such appropriate descriptions of services.


(3) Takes into account the type, intensity and duration of services furnished by FQHCs.


(4) May include adjustments (such as geographic adjustments) determined by the Secretary.


(b) *Initial payments.* (1) Beginning October 1, 2014, for the first 15 months of the PPS, the estimated aggregate amount of PPS rates is equal to 100 percent of the estimated amount of reasonable costs that would have occurred for that period if the PPS had not been implemented.


(2) Payment rate is calculated based on the reasonable cost system, prior to productivity adjustments and any payment limitations.


(c) *Payments in subsequent years.* (1) Beginning January 1, 2016, PPS payment rates will be increased by the percentage increase in the Medicare economic index.


(2) Beginning January 1, 2017, PPS rates will be increased by the percentage increase in a market basket of FQHC goods and services as established through regulations, or, if not available, the Medicare economic index.



---

[N] [79 FR 25479, May 2, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 71372, Nov. 16, 2015]




