# § 1134.105   Performance reporting for construction awards.

(a) *OMB guidance.* OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.328(c) notes that agencies rely heavily on onsite technical inspections and certified percentage of completion data to monitor progress under construction grants and cooperative agreements and states that agencies may require additional performance reports only when considered necessary.


(b) *DoD implementation.* DoD Components may require performance reports under construction awards only when necessary and, to reduce recipient burdens, should coordinate the performance reporting with financial reporting to the maximum extent practicable.


(c) *Award terms and conditions.* (1) If a DoD Component has general terms and conditions specifically for construction awards and does not need performance reports for those awards, it:


(i) Should reserve Sections A through D of REP Article I in those terms and conditions;


(ii) Must follow the specifications in §§ 1134.135 and 1134.145 to include the wording appendix A to this part provides for Sections E and G of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, in order to require recipients to promptly report significant developments and reserve the DoD Component's right to make site visits.


(iii) Must follow the specifications in § 1134.140 to insert wording in Section F of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, to tell recipients where and how to submit any reports of significant developments.


(2) If a DoD Component has general terms and conditions specifically for construction awards and determines that it needs performance reports for those awards:


(i) It may tailor the template and content that appendix A to this part provides for Sections A through D of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, as needed to specify the reporting requirements or, as appropriate, instead integrate those requirements into REP Article II on financial reporting. The form, format, or data elements that the DoD Component specifies for any of those performance reports must comply with requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, as implemented by OMB at 5 CFR part 1320, to use OMB-approved information collections if more than 9 recipients will be subject to the reporting requirement.


(ii) It must follow the specifications in §§ 1134.135 through 1134.145 concerning Sections E through G of REP Article I in those terms and conditions, as described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.




