# § 1.446-6   REMIC inducement fees.

(a) *Purpose.* This section provides specific timing rules for the clear reflection of income from an inducement fee received in connection with becoming the holder of a noneconomic REMIC residual interest. An inducement fee must be included in income over a period reasonably related to the period during which the applicable REMIC is expected to generate taxable income or net loss allocable to the holder of the noneconomic residual interest.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Applicable REMIC.* The applicable REMIC is the REMIC that issued the noneconomic residual interest with respect to which the inducement fee is paid.


(2) *Inducement fee.* An inducement fee is the amount paid to induce a person to become the holder of a noneconomic residual interest in an applicable REMIC.


(3) *Noneconomic residual interest.* A REMIC residual interest is a noneconomic residual interest if it is a noneconomic residual interest within the meaning of § 1.860E-1(c)(2).


(4) *Remaining anticipated weighted average life.* The remaining anticipated weighted average life is the anticipated weighted average life determined using the methodology set forth in § 1.860E-1(a)(3)(iv) applied as of the date of acquisition of the noneconomic residual interest.


(5) *REMIC.* The term REMIC has the same meaning in this section as given in § 1.860D-1.


(c) *General rule.* All taxpayers, regardless of their overall method of accounting, must recognize an inducement fee over the remaining expected life of the applicable REMIC in a manner that reasonably reflects, without regard to this paragraph, the after-tax costs and benefits of holding that noneconomic residual interest.


(d) *Special rule on disposition of a residual interest.* If any portion of an inducement fee received with respect to becoming the holder of a noneconomic residual interest in an applicable REMIC has not been recognized in full by the holder as of the time the holder transfers, or otherwise ceases to be the holder for Federal tax purposes of, that residual interest in the applicable REMIC, then the holder must include the unrecognized portion of the inducement fee in income at that time. This rule does not apply to a transaction to which section 381(c)(4) applies.


(e) *Safe harbors.* If inducement fees are recognized in accordance with a method described in this paragraph (e), that method complies with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) *The book method.* Under the book method, an inducement fee is recognized in accordance with the method of accounting, and over the same period, used by the taxpayer for financial reporting purposes (including consolidated financial statements to shareholders, partners, beneficiaries, and other proprietors and for credit purposes), provided that the inducement fee is included in income for financial reporting purposes over a period that is not shorter than the period during which the applicable REMIC is expected to generate taxable income.


(2) *The modified REMIC regulatory method.* Under the modified REMIC regulatory method, the inducement fee is recognized ratably over the remaining anticipated weighted average life of the applicable REMIC as if the inducement fee were unrecognized gain being included in gross income under § 1.860F-2(b)(4)(iii).


(3) *Additional safe harbor methods.* The Commissioner, by revenue ruling or revenue procedure (*see* § 1.601(d)(2) of this chapter), may provide additional safe harbor methods for recognizing inducement fees relating to noneconomic REMIC residual interests.


(f) *Method of accounting.* The treatment of inducement fees is a method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the regulations thereunder apply. A taxpayer is generally permitted to adopt a method of accounting for inducement fees that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Once a taxpayer adopts a method of accounting for inducement fees, that method must be applied consistently to all inducement fees received in connection with noneconomic REMIC residual interests and may be changed only with the consent of the Commissioner, as provided by section 446(e) and the regulations and procedures thereunder.


(g) *Effective date.* This section is applicable for taxable years ending on or after May 11, 2004.



---

[N] [T.D. 9128, 69 FR 26041, May 11, 2004]




