# ยง 600.1410   Registry process.

(a) A person may register through the NMFS web site at *www.nmfs.noaa.gov* or by calling a toll-free telephone number available by contacting NMFS or at the NMFS website.


(b) Individuals must submit their name; address; telephone number; date of birth; region(s) of the country in which they intend to fish in the upcoming year; and additional information necessary for the issuance or administration of the registration.


(c) To register a for-hire fishing vessel, the vessel owner or operator must submit vessel owner name, address, date of birth, and telephone number; vessel operator (if different) name, address, date of birth and telephone number; vessel name; vessel's state registration or U.S. Coast Guard documentation number; home port or principal area of operation; and additional information necessary for the issuance or administration of the registration.


(d) NMFS will issue a registration number and certificate to registrants. A registration number and certificate will be valid for one year from the date on which it is issued.


(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to submit false, inaccurate or misleading information in connection with any registration request.


(f) *Fees.* Effective January 1, 2011, persons registering with NMFS must pay an annual fee. The annual schedule for such fees will be published in the _Federal Register._ Indigenous people engaging in angling or spear fishing must register, but are not required to pay a fee.




