# ยง 65.1   Applicability.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to owners or operators expressly referenced to this part from a subpart of 40 CFR part 60, 61, or 63 for which the owner or operator has chosen to comply with the provisions of this part as an alternative to the provisions in the referencing subpart as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) Owners or operators may choose to comply with this part for any regulated source subject to a referencing subpart. 


(c) Compliance with this part instead of the referencing subparts does not alter the applicability of the referencing subparts. This part applies to only the equipment, process vents, storage vessels, or transfer operations to which the referencing subparts apply. This part does not extend applicability to equipment, process vents, storage vessels, or transfer operations that are not regulated by the referencing subpart. 


(d) The provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A; 40 CFR part 61, subpart A; and 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, that are listed in table 1 of this subpart still apply to owners or operators of regulated sources expressly referenced to this part. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in table 1 of this subpart in the column corresponding to the referencing subpart. All provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A; 40 CFR part 61, subpart A; and 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, not expressly referenced in table 1 of this subpart do not apply, and the provisions of this part apply instead, except that provisions which were required to be met prior to implementation of this part 65 still apply. 


(e) The provisions of the referencing subparts that are listed in table 2 of this subpart still apply to owners or operators of regulated sources expressly referenced to this part. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in table 2 of this subpart in the row corresponding to the referencing subpart. All provisions of the referencing subparts not expressly referenced in table 2 to this subpart do not apply and the provisions of this part apply instead, except that provisions which were required to be met prior to implementation of this part 65 still apply. 


(f) *Implementation date.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with this part shall comply by the dates specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, as applicable, and shall meet the requirement in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. 


(1) Owners or operators shall implement this part as specified in an implementation schedule or at initial startup. The implementation date shall be established by mutual agreement with the Administrator or delegated authority. The implementation schedule shall be included in the source's title V permit. For non-title V sources, the implementation schedule shall be proposed by the source in the Initial Notification for Part 65 Applicability as specified in ยง 65.5(c). 


(2) There shall be no gaps in compliance between compliance with the referencing subpart and compliance with this part. 


(g) *Transitioning out of this part.* Owners or operators who decide to no longer comply with this part and to comply with the provisions in the referencing subpart instead shall comply with the following, as applicable: 


(1) This transition shall be carried out on a date established in a title V permit or if the source is not a title V source, by a date established by agreement with the Administrator or delegated authority. The transition date shall be proposed in a title V permit amendment, or for non-title V sources, in a periodic report or separate notice. 


(2) There shall be no gaps in compliance between compliance with this part and compliance with the referencing subpart provisions. 


(h) *Overlap with other subparts of this part.* When provisions of another subpart of this part conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the provisions of the other subpart shall apply. 


(i) *Equipment assignment procedures.* If specific items of equipment (pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, surge control vessels, and bottoms receivers) that are part of a process unit complying with this part are managed by different administrative organizations (for example, different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any process unit within the plant site. 




