# ยง 319.301   Qualifications standards.

(a) *General.* Agency heads are responsible for establishing qualifications standards in accordance with the criteria in this section. 


(1) The standard must be in writing and identify the breadth and depth of the knowledges, skills, and abilities, or other qualifications, required for successful performance in the position. 


(2) Each criterion in the standard must be job related. 


(3) The standard may not include any criterion prohibited by law or regulation. 


(b) *Standards for senior-level positions.* (1) The standard must be specific enough to enable applicants to be rated and ranked according to their degree of qualifications when the position is being filled on a competitive basis. 


(2) The standard may not include a minimum length of experience or minimum education requirement beyond that authorized for similar positions in the General Schedule. 


(c) *Standards for scientific and professional positions.* (1) Unless the agency obtains the approval of OPM, the standard must provide that the candidate have at least 3 years of specialized experience in, or closely related to, the field in which the candidate will work. At least 1 year of this experience must have been in planning and executing difficult programs of national significance or planning and executing specialized programs that show outstanding attainments in the field of research or consultation. 


(2) Agencies may require that at least 1 year of the specialized experience must be at least equivalent to experience at GS-15. 


(3) Agencies may require applicants to furnish positive evidence that they have performed highly creative or outstanding research where similar abilities are required in the ST position. 




