# ยง 54.1505   Stage 2 fixed support application process.

(a) *Provider eligibility.* A provider shall be eligible to submit an application for support from Stage 2 of the fixed Uniendo a Puerto Rico Fund or of the fixed Connect USVI Fund if it had its own fixed network and provided broadband service in Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, respectively, according to its June 2018 FCC Form 477 data. A provider must obtain eligible telecommunications carrier designation no later than sixty (60) days after public notice of selection to receive fixed support. Any entity that is awarded support but fails to obtain ETC designation within sixty (60) days shall be considered in default and will not be eligible to receive high-cost funding.


(b) *Application processing.* No application will be considered unless it has been submitted in an acceptable form during the period specified by public notice. No applications submitted or demonstrations made at any other time shall be accepted or considered.


(c) *Application format.* All applications must be substantially in the format as specified and announced by the Wireline Competition Bureau.


(1) Any application that, as of the submission deadline, either does not identify the applicant seeking support as specified in the public notice announcing application procedures or does not include required certifications shall be denied.


(2) An applicant may be afforded an opportunity to make minor modifications to amend its application or correct defects noted by the applicant, the Commission, the Administrator, or other parties. Minor modifications include correcting typographical errors in the application and supplying non-material information that was inadvertently omitted or was not available at the time the application was submitted.


(3) Applications to which major modifications are made after the deadline for submitting proposals shall be denied. Major modifications may include, but are not limited to, any changes in the ownership of the applicant that constitute an assignment or change of control, or the identity of the applicant, or the certifications required in the application.


(d) *Application contents.* In addition to providing information required by the Wireline Competition Bureau, any applicant for support from Stage 2 of the fixed Uniendo a Puerto Rico Fund or of the fixed Connect USVI Fund shall:


(1) Include ownership information as set forth in ยง 1.2112(a) of this chapter;


(2) Submit a detailed network plan and documents evidencing adequate financing for the project;


(3) Disclose its status as an eligible telecommunications carrier to the extent applicable and certify that it acknowledges that it must be designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier for the area in which it will receive support prior to being authorized to receive support;


(4) Describe the technology or technologies that will be used to provide service for each application; and


(5) To the extent that an applicant plans to use spectrum to offer its voice and broadband services, demonstrate it has the proper authorizations, if applicable, and access to operate on the spectrum it intends to use, and that the spectrum resources will be sufficient to cover peak network usage and deliver the minimum performance requirements to serve all of the fixed locations in eligible areas, and certify that it will retain its access to the spectrum for the term of support; and


(6) Provide a letter from a bank meeting the eligibility requirements outlined in ยง 54.1508 committing to issue an irrevocable stand-by letter of credit, in the required form, to the winning applicant. The letter shall at a minimum provide the dollar amount of the letter of credit and the issuing bank's agreement to follow the terms and conditions of the Commission's model letter of credit.


(e) *Identification of winning applicant.* After receipt and review of the proposals, a public notice shall identify each winning applicant that may be authorized to receive support from Stage 2 of the fixed Uniendo a Puerto Rico Fund and the fixed Connect USVI Fund support after the winning applicant submits a letter of credit and an accompanying opinion letter, as described in this section, in a form acceptable to the Commission. Each such winning applicant shall submit a letter of credit and accompanying opinion letter in a form acceptable to the Commission no later than the number of days provided by public notice.


(f) *Authorization to receive support.* After receipt of all necessary information, a public notice will identify each winning applicant that is authorized to receive Uniendo a Puerto Rico Fund and the Connect USVI Fund Stage 2 fixed support.




