# § 435.603   Application of modified adjusted gross income (MAGI).

(a) *Basis, scope, and implementation.* (1) This section implements section 1902(e)(14) of the Act.


(2) Effective January 1, 2014, the agency must apply the financial methodologies set forth in this section in determining the financial eligibility of all individuals for Medicaid, except for individuals identified in paragraph (j) of this section and as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) In the case of determining ongoing eligibility for beneficiaries determined eligible for Medicaid coverage to begin on or before December 31, 2013, application of the financial methodologies set forth in this section will not be applied until March 31, 2014 or the next regularly-scheduled renewal of eligibility for such individual under § 435.916 of this part, whichever is later.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


*Child* means a natural or biological, adopted or step child.


*Code* means the Internal Revenue Code.


*Family size* means the number of persons counted as members of an individual's household. In the case of determining the family size of a pregnant woman, the pregnant woman is counted as herself plus the number of children she is expected to deliver. In the case of determining the family size of other individuals who have a pregnant woman in their household, the pregnant woman is counted, at State option, as either 1 or 2 person(s) or as herself plus the number of children she is expected to deliver.


*Parent* means a natural or biological, adopted or step parent.


*Sibling* means natural or biological, adopted, half, or step sibling.


*Tax dependent* has the meaning provided in § 435.4 of this part.


(c) *Basic rule.* Except as specified in paragraph (i), (j), and (k) of this section, the agency must determine financial eligibility for Medicaid based on “household income” as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Household income*—(1) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(4) of this section, household income is the sum of the MAGI-based income, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, of every individual included in the individual's household.


(2) *Income of children and tax dependents.* (i) The MAGI-based income of an individual who is included in the household of his or her natural, adopted or step parent and is not expected to be required to file a tax return under section 6012(a)(1) of the Code for the taxable year in which eligibility for Medicaid is being determined, is not included in household income whether or not the individual files a tax return.


(ii) The MAGI-based income of a tax dependent described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section who is not expected to be required to file a tax return under section 6012(a)(1) of the Code for the taxable year in which eligibility for Medicaid is being determined is not included in the household income of the taxpayer whether or not such tax dependent files a tax return.


(3) In the case of individuals described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, household income may, at State option, also include actually available cash support, exceeding nominal amounts, provided by the person claiming such individual as a tax dependent.


(4) Effective January 1, 2014, in determining the eligibility of an individual using MAGI-based income, a state must subtract an amount equivalent to 5 percentage points of the Federal poverty level for the applicable family size only to determine the eligibility of an individual for medical assistance under the eligibility group with the highest income standard using MAGI-based methodologies in the applicable Title of the Act, but not to determine eligibility for a particular eligibility group.


(e) *MAGI-based income.* For the purposes of this section, MAGI-based income means income calculated using the same financial methodologies used to determine modified adjusted gross income as defined in section 36B(d)(2)(B) of the Code, with the following exceptions—


(1) An amount received as a lump sum is counted as income only in the month received.


(2) Scholarships, awards, or fellowship grants used for education purposes and not for living expenses are excluded from income.


(3) *American Indian/Alaska Native exceptions.* The following are excluded from income:


(i) Distributions from Alaska Native Corporations and Settlement Trusts;


(ii) Distributions from any property held in trust, subject to Federal restrictions, located within the most recent boundaries of a prior Federal reservation, or otherwise under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior;


(iii) Distributions and payments from rents, leases, rights of way, royalties, usage rights, or natural resource extraction and harvest from—


(A) Rights of ownership or possession in any lands described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section; or


(B) Federally protected rights regarding off-reservation hunting, fishing, gathering, or usage of natural resources;


(iv) Distributions resulting from real property ownership interests related to natural resources and improvements—


(A) Located on or near a reservation or within the most recent boundaries of a prior Federal reservation; or


(B) Resulting from the exercise of federally-protected rights relating to such real property ownership interests;


(v) Payments resulting from ownership interests in or usage rights to items that have unique religious, spiritual, traditional, or cultural significance or rights that support subsistence or a traditional lifestyle according to applicable Tribal Law or custom;


(vi) Student financial assistance provided under the Bureau of Indian Affairs education programs.


(f) *Household*—(1) *Basic rule for taxpayers not claimed as a tax dependent.* In the case of an individual who expects to file a tax return for the taxable year in which an initial determination or renewal of eligibility is being made, and who does not expect to be claimed as a tax dependent by another taxpayer, the household consists of the taxpayer and, subject to paragraph (f)(5) of this section, all persons whom such individual expects to claim as a tax dependent.


(2) *Basic rule for individuals claimed as a tax dependent.* In the case of an individual who expects to be claimed as a tax dependent by another taxpayer for the taxable year in which an initial determination or renewal of eligibility is being made, the household is the household of the taxpayer claiming such individual as a tax dependent, except that the household must be determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section in the case of—


(i) Individuals other than a spouse or child who expect to be claimed as a tax dependent by another taxpayer; and


(ii) Individuals under the age specified by the State under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section who expect to be claimed by one parent as a tax dependent and are living with both parents but whose parents do not expect to file a joint tax return; and


(iii) Individuals under the age specified by the State under paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section who expect to be claimed as a tax dependent by a non-custodial parent. For purposes of this section—


(A) A court order or binding separation, divorce, or custody agreement establishing physical custody controls; or


(B) If there is no such order or agreement or in the event of a shared custody agreement, the custodial parent is the parent with whom the child spends most nights.


(3) *Rules for individuals who neither file a tax return nor are claimed as a tax dependent.* In the case of individuals who do not expect to file a Federal tax return and do not expect to be claimed as a tax dependent for the taxable year in which an initial determination or renewal of eligibility is being made, or who are described in paragraph (f)(2)(i), (f)(2)(ii), or (f)(2)(iii) of this section, the household consists of the individual and, if living with the individual—


(i) The individual's spouse;


(ii) The individual's children under the age specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section; and


(iii) In the case of individuals under the age specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section, the individual's parents and siblings under the age specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iv) of this section.


(iv) The age specified in this paragraph is either of the following, as elected by the agency in the State plan—


(A) Age 19; or


(B) Age 19 or, in the case of full-time students, age 21.


(4) *Married couples.* In the case of a married couple living together, each spouse will be included in the household of the other spouse, regardless of whether they expect to file a joint tax return under section 6013 of the Code or whether one spouse expects to be claimed as a tax dependent by the other spouse.


(5) For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, if, consistent with the procedures adopted by the State in accordance with § 435.956(f) of this part, a taxpayer cannot reasonably establish that another individual is a tax dependent of the taxpayer for the tax year in which Medicaid is sought, the inclusion of such individual in the household of the taxpayer is determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(g) *No resource test or income disregards.* In the case of individuals whose financial eligibility for Medicaid is determined in accordance with this section, the agency must not—


(1) Apply any assets or resources test; or


(2) Apply any income or expense disregards under sections 1902(r)(2) or 1931(b)(2)(C), or otherwise under title XIX of the Act, except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(h) *Budget period*—(1) *Applicants and new enrollees.* Financial eligibility for Medicaid for applicants, and other individuals not receiving Medicaid benefits at the point at which eligibility for Medicaid is being determined, must be based on current monthly household income and family size.


(2) *Current beneficiaries.* For individuals who have been determined financially-eligible for Medicaid using the MAGI-based methods set forth in this section, a State may elect in its State plan to base financial eligibility either on current monthly household income and family size or income based on projected annual household income and family size for the remainder of the current calendar year.


(3) In determining current monthly or projected annual household income and family size under paragraphs (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section, the agency may adopt a reasonable method to include a prorated portion of reasonably predictable future income, to account for a reasonably predictable increase or decrease in future income, or both, as evidenced by a signed contract for employment, a clear history of predictable fluctuations in income, or other clear indicia of such future changes in income. Such future increase or decrease in income or family size must be verified in the same manner as other income and eligibility factors, in accordance with the income and eligibility verification requirements at § 435.940 through § 435.965, including by self-attestation if reasonably compatible with other electronic data obtained by the agency in accordance with such sections.


(i) If the household income of an individual determined in accordance with this section results in financial ineligibility for Medicaid and the household income of such individual determined in accordance with 26 CFR 1.36B-1(e) is below 100 percent FPL, Medicaid financial eligibility will be determined in accordance with 26 CFR 1.36B-1(e).


(j) *Eligibility Groups for which MAGI-based methods do not apply.* The financial methodologies described in this section are not applied in determining the Medicaid eligibility of individuals described in this paragraph. The agency must use the financial methods described in § 435.601 and § 435.602 of this subpart.


(1) Individuals whose eligibility for Medicaid does not require a determination of income by the agency, including, but not limited to, individuals receiving Supplemental Security Income (SSI) eligible for Medicaid under § 435.120 of this part, individuals deemed to be receiving SSI and eligible for Medicaid under § 435.135, § 435.137 or § 435.138 of this part and individuals for whom the State relies on a finding of income made by an Express Lane agency, in accordance with section 1902(e)(13) of the Act.


(2) Individuals who are age 65 or older when age is a condition of eligibility.


(3) Individuals whose eligibility is being determined on the basis of being blind or disabled, or on the basis of being treated as being blind or disabled, including, but not limited to, individuals eligible under § 435.121, § 435.232 or § 435.234 of this part or under section 1902(e)(3) of the Act, but only for the purpose of determining eligibility on such basis.


(4) Individuals who request coverage for long-term care services and supports for the purpose of being evaluated for an eligibility group under which long-term care services and supports not covered for individuals determined eligible using MAGI-based financial methods are covered, or for individuals being evaluated for an eligibility group for which being institutionalized, meeting an institutional level of care or satisfying needs-based criteria for home and community based services is a condition of eligibility. For purposes of this paragraph, “long-term care services and supports” include nursing facility services, a level of care in any institution equivalent to nursing facility services; and home and community-based services furnished under a waiver or State plan under sections 1915 or 1115 of the Act; home health services as described in sections 1905(a)(7) of the Act and personal care services described in sections 1905(a)(24) of the Act.


(5) Individuals who are being evaluated for eligibility for Medicare cost sharing assistance under section 1902(a)(10)(E) of the Act, but only for purposes of determining eligibility for such assistance.


(6) Individuals who are being evaluated for coverage as medically needy under subparts D and I of this part, but only for the purpose of determining eligibility on such basis.


(k) *Eligibility.* In the case of an individual whose eligibility is being determined under § 435.214, the agency may—


(1) Consider the household to consist of only the individual for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section;


(2) Count only the MAGI-based income of the individual for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) Increase the family size of the individual, as defined in paragraph (b) of the section, by one.



---

[N] [77 FR 17206, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 42302, July 15, 2013; 81 FR 86456, Nov. 30, 2016]




