# § 1.954-8   Foreign base company oil related income.

(a) *Foreign base company oil related income*—(1) *In general.* Under section 954(g), the foreign base company oil related income of a controlled foreign corporation (except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section) consists of the items of foreign oil related income (“FORI”) described in section 907(c)(2) and (3), other than such income derived from a source within a foreign country in connection with—


(i) Oil or gas which was extracted from an oil or gas well located in that foreign country (“extraction exception”), or


(ii) Oil, gas, or a primary product of oil or gas which is sold by the controlled foreign corporation or a related person for use or consumption within that country or is loaded in that country on a vessel or aircraft as fuel for the vessel or aircraft (“use or consumption exception”).


(2) *Source of income.* The source of foreign base company oil related income is determined generally under the principles of §§ 1.861-1 to 1.863-5. See § 1.863-6. Thus, income from the performance of a service generally is sourced in the country where the service is performed. See § 1.861-4. Underwriting income from insuring a foreign oil related activity is sourced at the location of the risk. See section 861(a)(7) and § 1.953-2.


(3) *Primary product.* The term “primary product” of oil or gas has the meaning given this term by § 1.907(c)-1(d)(5) and (6).


(4) *Vessel.* For the definition of the term “vessel”, see § 1.954-6(b)(3)(ii).


(5) *Foreign country.* For purposes of this section, the term “foreign country” has the same meaning as in section 638 (relating to continental shelf areas). Thus, for example, oil or gas extracted from a sea area will be deemed to be extracted in the country which has exclusive rights of exploitation of natural resources with respect to that area if the other conditions of section 638 are met.


(6) *Country of use or consumption.* For rules for determining the country of use or consumption, see § 1.954-3(a)(3)(ii).


(7) *Insurance income.* For purposes of this section, income derived from or attributable to insurance of section 907(c)(2) activities means taxable income as defined in section 832(a) and as modified by the principles of § 1.953-4 (other than as the section is applied to life insurance).


(8) *Fuel product.* For purposes of this section, the term “fuel product” means oil, gas or a primary product of oil or gas.


(9) *Effective date.* The provisions of section 954(g) and this section are applicable to taxable years of foreign corporations beginning on or after January 1, 1983, and to taxable years of United States shareholders in which or with which those taxable years of foreign corporations end.


(b) *Exemption for small oil producers*—(1) *In general.* Foreign base company oil related income does not include any income of a foreign corporation which is not a large oil producer.


(2) *Large oil producer.* A corporation is a large oil producer (within the meaning of section 954(g)(2)) if the average daily production (extraction) of foreign crude oil and natural gas by the related group which includes the corporation and related persons (within the meaning of section 954(d)(3)) for the taxable year or immediately preceding taxable year is 1,000 or more barrels. The average daily production of foreign crude oil or natural gas for any taxable year (and the conversion of cubic feet of natural gas into barrels) is determined under rules similar to the rules of section 613A, except that only crude oil or natural gas from a well located outside the United States is taken into account.


(c) *Special rules for applying the extraction exception of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section*—(1) *Refining income described in section 907(c)(2)(A).* With regard to a controlled foreign corporation's refining income from the processing of minerals extracted (by the taxpayer or by any other person) from oil or gas wells into their primary products, as described in section 907(c)(2)(A), a pro rata method will be applied for purposes of determining the part of the refining income that qualifies for the extraction exception of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. The pro rata method will be based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of processing bears to the total barrels of the fuel product processed in that country and will apply regardless of the country of sale of the primary product.


(2) *Marketing income described in section 907(c)(2)(C).* With regard to a controlled foreign corporation's marketing income from the distribution or sale of minerals extracted from oil or gas wells or of primary products, as described in section 907(c)(2)(C), a pro rata method will be applied for purposes of determining the part of the marketing income that qualifies for the extraction exception of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. When applying the pro rata method to the sale of a fuel product other than a primary product, the pro rata method will be based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product sold in that country. When applying the pro rata method to the sale of primary products, the method will be based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product processed. For purposes of applying the pro rata method, data of the controlled foreign corporation's related group (as defined in section 954(g)(2)(C)) will be taken into account. The pro rata method will not apply, however, if the mineral or primary product is purchased by the controlled foreign corporation from a person not within the controlled foreign corporation's related group. In that situation, the marketing income will be presumed to qualify for the extraction exception if the country of the source of the marketing income is a net exporter of crude oil or gas, whichever is relevant. If the country of the source of the marketing income is not a net exporter of crude oil or gas, whichever is relevant, the marketing income will be presumed not to qualify for the extraction exception. The controlled foreign corporation may, however, rebut this latter presumption by demonstrating on the basis of all the facts and circumstances that its marketing income does qualify for the extraction exception. If a primary product that is acquired from a person within the controlled foreign corporation's related group is commingled with like products acquired from persons not within that related group, the pro rata method based on the proportion that the barrels of the fuel product extracted in the country of sale bears to the total barrels of the fuel product processed will be applied to that portion of the total products sold that was purchased from persons within the related group, to the extent that that person did not sell product purchased from an unrelated person, and either the presumption or facts and circumstances will determine the characterization of the remainder.


(3) *Transportation income described in section 907(c)(2)(B).* With regard to a controlled foreign corporation's income from the transportation of minerals from oil and gas wells or of primary products, as described in section 907(c)(2)(B), the rules set forth in paragraph (c)(2) of this section will apply for purposes of determining the part of the transportation income that qualifies for the extraction exception of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(4) *Illustrations.* The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph.



---

[N] [T.D. 8331, 56 FR 2847, Jan. 25, 1991; 56 FR 11511, Mar. 19, 1991]










