# ยง 501.23   Request by an Indian Tribe for a determination of eligibility.

An Indian Tribe may apply to the Regional Administrator for a determination that it qualifies pursuant to section 518 of the Act for purposes of seeking sludge management program approval. The application shall be concise and describe how the Indian Tribe will meet each of the requirements of ยง 501.22. The application shall include the following information:


(a) A statement that the Tribe is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior;


(b) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the Tribal governing body is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. This statement should:


(1) Describe the form of the Tribal government;


(2) Describe the types of governmental functions currently performed by the Tribal governing body, such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and


(3) Identify the source of the Tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed.


(c) A map or legal description of the area over which the Indian Tribe asserts authority under section 518(e)(2) of the Act; a statement by the Tribal Attorney General (or equivalent official authorized to represent the Tribe in all legal matters in court pertaining to the program for which it seeks approval) which describes the basis for the Tribe's assertion (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted regulatory authority); copies of those documents such as Tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions which the Tribe believes are relevant to its assertion under section 518(e)(2) of the Act. 


(d) A narrative statement describing the capability of the Indian Tribe to administer an effective, environmentally sound sludge management program. The statement should include:


(1) A description of the Indian Tribe's previous management experience which may include the administration of programs and service authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450 *et seq.*), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101 *et seq.*), or the Indian Sanitation Facility Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a);


(2) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the Tribal governing body, and a copy of related Tribal laws, regulations, and policies;


(3) A description of the entity (or entities) which exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the Tribal government;


(4) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary responsibility for establishing and administering a sludge management program (including a description of the relationship between the existing or proposed agency and its regulated entities);


(5) A description of the technical and administrative abilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective, environmentally sound sludge management program or a plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire additional administrative and technical expertise. The plan must address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the administrative and technical expertise.


(e) The Regional Administrator may, at his discretion, request further documentation necessary to support a Tribe's eligibility.


(f) If the Administrator or her delegatee has previously determined that a Tribe has met the prerequisites that make it eligible to assume a role similar to that of a state as provided by statute under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act, or the Clean Air Act, then that Tribe need provide only that information unique to the sludge management program which is requested by the Regional Administrator. 



---

[N] [58 FR 67984, Dec. 22, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 64346, Dec. 14, 1994]




