# ยง 21.420   Informing the veteran.

(a) *General.* VA will inform a veteran in writing of findings affecting receipt of benefits and services under Chapter 31. This includes veterans:


(1) Requesting benefits and services; or


(2) In receipt of benefits and services. 


(b) *Notification:* Each notification should include the following:


(1) Identification of the issues adjudicated.


(2) A summary of the evidence considered by the Secretary.


(3) A summary of the applicable laws and regulations relevant to the decision.


(4) Identification of findings favorable to the veteran.


(5) In the case of a denial of a claim, identification of elements not satisfied leading to the denial.


(6) An explanation of how to obtain or access evidence used in making the decision.


(7) A summary of the applicable review options available for the veteran to seek further review of the decision. 


(c) *Adverse action.* An adverse action is one, other than an interim action such as a suspension of benefits pending development, which:


(1) Denies Chapter 31 benefits, when such benefits have been requested;


(2) Reduces or otherwise diminishes benefits being received by the veteran; or


(3) Terminates receipt of benefits for reasons other than scheduled interruptions which are a part of the veteran's plan. 


(d) *Prior notification of adverse action.* VA shall give the veteran a period of at least 30 days to review, prior to its promulgation, an adverse action other than one which arises as a consequence of a change in training time or other such alteration in circumstances. During that period, the veteran shall be given the opportunity to:


(1) Meet informally with a representative of VA;


(2) Review the basis for VA decision, including any relevant written documents or material; and


(3) Submit to VA any material which he or she may have relevant to the decision.


(e) *Favorable findings.* Any finding favorable to the veteran is binding on all subsequent agency of original jurisdiction and Board of Veterans' Appeals adjudicators, unless rebutted by evidence that identifies a clear and unmistakable error in the favorable finding.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 40872, Oct. 4, 1989; 84 FR 193, Jan. 18, 2019]




