# ยง 200.416   Cost allocation plans and indirect cost proposals.

(a) Awards to states, local governments, and Indian Tribes are often implemented at the level of department within the State, local government, or Indian Tribe. A central service cost allocation plan is established to allow such department to claim a portion of centralized service costs that are incurred in proportion to the award's activities. Examples of centralized service costs may include motor pools, computer centers, purchasing, and accounting. Since Federal awards are performed within the individual operating agencies, there needs to be a process whereby these central service costs can be identified and assigned to benefitted activities on a reasonable and consistent basis. The central service cost allocation plan establishes this process.


(b) Individual departments typically charge Federal awards for indirect costs through an indirect cost rate. A separate indirect cost rate proposal for each operating department is usually necessary to claim indirect costs under Federal awards. Indirect costs include:


(1) The indirect costs originating in each operating department of the State, local government, or Indian Tribe carrying out Federal awards; and


(2) The costs of central governmental services distributed through the central service cost allocation plan and not otherwise treated as direct costs.


(c) The requirements for developing and submitting cost allocation plans (for central service costs and public assistance programs) and indirect cost rate proposals are contained in appendices V, VI, and VII of this part.






