# ยง 1.917   Contracting for collection services.

(a) VA has authority to contract for collection services to recover delinquent debts, provided that: 


(1) The authority to resolve disputes, compromise claims, suspend or terminate collection and refer the matter for litigation shall be retained by VA; 


(2) The contractor shall be subject to 38 U.S.C. 5701, and to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), and to applicable Federal and State laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, such as the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692 *et seq.*

(3) The contractor shall be required to strictly account for all amounts collected; 


(4) Upon returning an account to VA for subsequent referral to the Department of Justice for litigation, the contractor must agree to provide any data contained in its files relating to ยง 1.951. 


(b) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), or as otherwise permitted by law, collection service contracts may be funded in the following manner:


(1) VA may fund a collection service contract on a fixed-fee basis (*i.e.*, payment of a fixed fee determined without regard to the amount actually collected under the contract). Payment of the fee under this type of contract must be charged to available appropriations; 


(2) VA may also fund a collection service contract on a contingent-fee basis (*i.e.*, by including a provision in the contract permitting the contractor to deduct its fee from amounts collected under the contract). The fee should be based upon a percentage of the amount collected, consistent with prevailing commercial practice; 


(3) VA may enter into a contract under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if and to the extent that funding for the contract is provided for in advance by an appropriation act or other legislation, except that this requirement does not apply to the use of a revolving fund authorized by statute; 


(4) Except as authorized under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(5) of this section, or unless otherwise specifically provided by law, VA shall deposit all amounts recovered under collection service contracts for Loan Guaranty debts into the Loan Guaranty Revolving Fund, and for all other debts in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3302. 


(5) For benefit overpayments recovered under collection service contract, VA, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3302, shall deposit: 


(i) Amounts equal to the original overpayments in the appropriations account from which the overpayments were made, and 


(ii) Amount of interest or administrative costs in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.


(c) VA shall use government-wide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors. However, VA may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between VA and a private collection contractor only if such debts are not subject to the requirement to transfer debts to Treasury for debt collection. See 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), 31 CFR 285.12(e), and 38 CFR 1.910.


(d) VA may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, such as unclaimed assets.


(e) VA may enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the agency for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered, unless otherwise prohibited by statute.



---

[N] [52 FR 42107, Nov. 3, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 69 FR 62195, Oct. 25, 2004]




