# § 184.6   Construction material standards.

(a) The Buy America Preference applies to the following construction materials incorporated into infrastructure projects. Each construction material is followed by a standard for the material to be considered “produced in the United States.”


(1) *Non-ferrous metals.* All manufacturing processes, from initial smelting or melting through final shaping, coating, and assembly, occurred in the United States.


(2) *Plastic and polymer-based products.* All manufacturing processes, from initial combination of constituent plastic or polymer-based inputs, or, where applicable, constituent composite materials, until the item is in its final form, occurred in the United States.


(3) *Glass.* All manufacturing processes, from initial batching and melting of raw materials through annealing, cooling, and cutting, occurred in the United States.


(4) *Fiber optic cable (including drop cable).* All manufacturing processes, from the initial ribboning (if applicable), through buffering, fiber stranding and jacketing, occurred in the United States. All manufacturing processes also include the standards for glass and optical fiber, but not for non-ferrous metals, plastic and polymer-based products, or any others.


(5) *Optical fiber.* All manufacturing processes, from the initial preform fabrication stage through the completion of the draw, occurred in the United States.


(6) *Lumber.* All manufacturing processes, from initial debarking through treatment and planing, occurred in the United States.


(7) *Drywall.* All manufacturing processes, from initial blending of mined or synthetic gypsum plaster and additives through cutting and drying of sandwiched panels, occurred in the United States.


(8) *Engineered wood.* All manufacturing processes from the initial combination of constituent materials until the wood product is in its final form, occurred in the United States.


(b) Except as specifically provided, only a single standard under paragraph (a) of this section should be applied to a single construction material.






