# § 1303.40   Timing of responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* Upon receipt of any request for information or records, the FOIA Officer will determine within 20 working days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) after the receipt of such request whether it is appropriate to grant the request and will immediately notify the requester of such determination and the reasons therefore and the right of such person to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison. The 20-day period, as used herein, shall commence on the date on which the FOIA Officer or the FOIA Public Liaison first receives the request but in any event not later than 10 working days after the request is first received by any component's office that is designated by these regulations to receive requests. OMB may toll this 20-day period either one time while OMB is awaiting information that it has reasonably requested from the requester or any time when necessary to clarify with the requester issues regarding fee assessment. OMB's receipt of the requester's response to OMB's request for information ends the tolling period.


(b) *Multitrack processing.* (1) FOIA requests are placed on one of three tracks:


(i) Track one covers those requests that seek and receive expedited processing pursuant to subsection (a)(6)(E) of the FOIA and in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section;


(ii) Track two covers simple requests;


(iii) Track three covers complex requests.


(2) Whether a request is simple or complex is based on the amount of work or time needed to process the request. OMB considers various factors, including the number of records requested, the number of pages involved in processing the request, and the need for consultations or referrals. OMB will advise the requester of the processing track in which their request has been placed and provide an opportunity to narrow or modify their request so that the request can be placed in a different processing track.


(c) *Unusual circumstances.* Whenever the statutory time limit for processing a request cannot be met because of “unusual circumstances,” as defined in the FOIA, and OMB extends the time limit on that basis, OMB will, before expiration of the 20-day period to respond, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which processing of the request can be expected to be completed. Where the extension exceeds 10 working days, OMB will, as described by the FOIA, provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing. OMB will alert requesters to the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison, who will assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and OMB, and notify the requester of the right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services (OGIS).


(d) *Aggregating requests.* To satisfy unusual circumstances under the FOIA, OMB may aggregate those requests for the purposes of this section when OMB reasonably believes that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, has submitted requests that constitute a single request, that would otherwise satisfy the unusual circumstances specified in this section. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters will not be aggregated.


(e) *Expedited processing.* (1) Requests and appeals will be given expedited treatment in cases where OMB determines:


(i) The lack of expedited treatment could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;


(ii) There is an urgency to inform the public about an actual or alleged Federal Government activity;


(iii) Failure to respond to the request expeditiously would result in the loss of due process rights in other proceedings; or


(iv) There are possible questions, in a matter of widespread and exceptional public interest, about the Government's integrity which affect public confidence.


(2) A request for expedited processing may be made at the time of the initial request for records or at any later time.


(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief, explaining in detail the basis for requesting expedited processing. OMB may waive this certification requirement at its discretion.


(4) OMB will decide whether to grant a request for expedited processing and will notify the requester within 10 calendar days after the date of the request. If a request for expedited treatment is granted, OMB will prioritize the underlying FOIA request, place the request in the processing track for expedited requests, and process the request as soon as practicable. If a request for expedited processing is denied, any appeal of that decision will be acted on expeditiously.



---

[N] [84 FR 22951, May 21, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 48825, June 10, 2024]






