# § 660.601   Definitions.

These definitions are specific to this subpart. General groundfish definitions are found at § 660.11, subpart C, and trawl fishery definitions are found at § 660.111, subpart D.


*Active sampling unit* means the portion of the groundfish fleet in which an observer coverage plan is being applied.


*Discard control point* means the location on the vessel designated by a vessel operator where allowable discarding may occur.


*Discard event* means a single occurrence of discarding of fish or other species.


*Electronic Monitoring* or *EM* consists of the use of an electronic monitoring system (EMS) to passively monitor fishing operations through observing or tracking.


*Electronic Monitoring Authorization* means the official document provided by NMFS that allows a vessel with a limited entry trawl permit to use electronic monitoring under the provisions of this subpart.


*Electronic Monitoring System* or *EMS* means a data collection tool that uses a software operating system connected to an assortment of electronic components, including video recorders, to create a collection of data on vessel activities.


*Electronic Monitoring System Certification Form* means the official document provided by NMFS, signed by a representative of a NMFS-permitted electronic monitoring service provider that attest that an EM system and associated equipment meets the performance standards defined at § 660.604(j) of this subpart, as required by § 660.604(e)(3)(i).


*EM data* means the information output of the Electronic Monitoring System (*e.g.,* imagery, sensor data, and other associated data files).


*EM data processing* means the review, interpretation, and analysis of EM data and associated meta data.


*EM dataset* means a collection of EM data from a single EM trip or group of EM trips.


*EM Program* means the Electronic Monitoring Program of the West Coast Region, National Marine Fisheries Service.


*EM Service Plan* means the document required under § 660.603 that describes in detail how the EM service provider will provide EM services.


*EM service provider* means any person, including their employees or agents, that is granted a permit by NMFS to provide EM services for vessels as required under § 660.603 and § 660.604.


*EM technician* means an employee of the EM service provider that provides support for EM systems and technical assistance.


*EM trip* means any fishing trip for which electronic monitoring is the declared monitoring type.


*Initial Administrative Determination (IAD)* means a formal, written determination made by NMFS on an application or permit request that is subject to an appeal within NMFS.


*Non-trawl shorebased IFQ vessel* means a vessel on a declared limited entry groundfish non-trawl, shorebased IFQ trip.


*Pacific whiting fishery* refers to the Pacific whiting primary season fisheries described at § 660.131. The Pacific whiting fishery is composed of vessels participating in the C/P Co-op Program, the MS Co-op Program, or the Pacific whiting IFQ fishery.


*Pacific whiting IFQ fishery* is composed of vessels on Pacific whiting IFQ trips.


*Pacific whiting IFQ trip* means a trip in which a vessel uses midwater groundfish trawl gear during the dates of the Pacific whiting primary season to target Pacific whiting, and Pacific whiting constitutes 50 percent or more of the catch by weight at landing as reported on the state landing receipt. Vessels on Pacific whiting IFQ trips must have a valid declaration for limited entry midwater trawl, Pacific whiting shorebased IFQ.


*Prohibited species* means those species and species groups defined at § 660.11; Dungeness crab caught south of Point Reyes, California; fish in excess of state or Federal limits; fish below a state or Federal minimum size; and species for which the vessel or vessel representative does not have a state or Federal permit.


*Shorebased IFQ Program* or *Shorebased IFQ sector,* refers to the fishery described at § 660.140, subpart D, and includes all vessels on IFQ trips.


*Vessel Monitoring Plan* (*VMP*) means the document that describes how fishing operations on the vessel will be conducted and how the EM system and associated equipment will be configured to meet the performance standards and purpose of the EM Program.



---

[N] [84 FR 31160, June 28, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 59713, Oct. 3, 2022]




