# ยง 658.420   Responsibilities of the Employment and Training Administration regional office.

(a) Each Regional Administrator must establish and maintain a Complaint System within each ETA regional office.




(b) The Regional Administrator must designate Department of Labor officials to process ES regulation-related complaints as follows:


(1) All complaints received at the ETA regional office under this subpart that allege unlawful discrimination or reprisal for protected activity in violation of nondiscrimination laws, such as those enforced by the EEOC or CRC, or in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act's anti-discrimination provision found at 8 U.S.C. 1324b, must be logged and immediately referred to the appropriate State-level E.O. Officer(s).


(2) All complaints other than those described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be assigned to a regional office official designated by the Regional Administrator, provided that the regional office official designated to process MSFW complaints must be the Regional Monitor Advocate (RMA).




(c) Except for those complaints under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Regional Administrator must designate Department of Labor officials to process employment-related law complaints in accordance with ยง 658.422, provided that the regional official designated to process MSFW employment-related law complaints must be the RMA. The RMA must follow up monthly on all complaints filed by MSFWs including complaints under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.






(d) The Regional Administrator must ensure that all complaints and all related documents and correspondence are logged with a notation of the nature of each item.





---

[N] [81 FR 56352, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended 88 FR 82733, Nov. 24, 2023]






