# ยง 84.27   Controlling emissions of HFC-23.

(a) No later than October 1, 2022, as compared to the amount of chemical intentionally produced on a facility line, no more than 0.1 percent of HFC-23 created on the line may be emitted.


(1) *Requests for extension.* The producer may submit a request to the relevant Agency official to request a six-month extension, with a possibility of one additional six-month extension, to meet the 0.1 percent HCFC-23 limit. No entity may have a compliance date later than October 1, 2023.


(2) *Timing of request.* The extension request must be submitted to EPA no later than August 1, 2022, for a first-time extension or February 1, 2023, for a second extension.


(3) *Content of request.* The extension request must contain the following information:


(i) Name of the facility submitting the request, contact information for a person at the facility, and the address of the facility.


(ii) A description of the specific actions the facility has taken to improve their HFC-23 control, capture, and destruction; the facility's plans to meet the 0.1 percent HFC-23 limit including the expected date by which the equipment will be installed and operating; and verification that the facility has met all applicable reporting requirements.


(4) *Review of request.* Starting on the first working day following receipt by the relevant Agency official of a complete request for extension, the relevant Agency official will initiate review of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and take action within 30 working days. Any grant of a compliance deferral by the relevant Agency official will be made public.


(b) Captured HFC-23 is permitted to be destroyed at a different facility than where it is produced. In such instances, HFC-23 emissions during the transportation to and destruction at the different facility will be incorporated into calculations of whether the producer meets the 0.1 percent standard outlined in paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 55208, Oct. 5, 2021]






