# § 63.566   Construction and reconstruction.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected source shall fulfill all requirements for construction or reconstruction of a source in § 63.5 of subpart A of this part in accordance with the provisions for applicability of subpart A to this subpart in Table 1 of § 63.560 and construction or reconstruction requirements in this section.


(b)(1) *Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.* The provisions of this paragraph and § 63.5(d)(1)(ii) and (iii), (2), (3), and (4) of subpart A implement section 112(i)(1) of the Act.


(2) *General application requirements.* An owner or operator who is subject to the requirements of § 63.5(b)(3) of subpart A shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction of a new source, the reconstruction of a source, or the reconstruction of a source not subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562 such that the source becomes an affected source. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of § 63.567(b)(3). The owner or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of the date construction or reconstruction is planned to commence in order to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned commencement date will not be delayed.


(c) *Approval of construction or reconstruction based on prior State preconstruction review.* The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator the request for approval of construction or reconstruction under this paragraph and § 63.5(f)(1) of subpart A of this part no later than the application deadline specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The owner or operator shall include in the request information sufficient for the Administrator's determination. The Administrator will evaluate the owner or operator's request in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.5(e) of subpart A of this part. The Administrator may request additional relevant information after the submittal of a request for approval of construction or reconstruction.




