# § 63.3350   If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?

(a) A summary of monitoring you must do follows: 



(b) Following the date on which the initial or periodic performance test of a control device is completed to demonstrate continuing compliance with the standards, you must monitor and inspect each capture system and each control device used to comply with § 63.3320. You must install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section.


(c) *Bypass and coating use monitoring.* If you own or operate web coating lines with intermittently-controlled work stations, you must monitor bypasses of the control device and the mass of each coating material applied at the work station during any such bypass. If using a control device for complying with the requirements of this subpart, you must demonstrate that any coating material applied on a never-controlled work station or an intermittently-controlled work station operated in bypass mode is allowed in your compliance demonstration according to § 63.3370(o) and (p). The bypass monitoring must be conducted using at least one of the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section for each work station and associated dryer.


(1) *Flow control position indicator.* Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that provides a record indicating whether the exhaust stream from the dryer was directed to the control device or was diverted from the control device. The time and flow control position must be recorded at least once per hour as well as every time the flow direction is changed. A flow control position indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the exhaust stream away from the control device to the atmosphere. 


(2) *Car-seal or lock-and-key valve closures.* Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism must be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve or damper is maintained in the closed position, and the exhaust stream is not diverted through the bypass line. 


(3) *Valve closure continuous monitoring.* Ensure that any bypass line valve or damper is in the closed position through continuous monitoring of valve position when the emission source is in operation and is using a control device for compliance with the requirements of this subpart. The monitoring system must be inspected at least once every month to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position. 


(4) *Automatic shutdown system.* Use an automatic shutdown system in which the web coating line is stopped when flow is diverted away from the control device to any bypass line when the control device is in operation. The automatic system must be inspected at least once every month to verify that it will detect diversions of flow and would shut down operations in the event of such a diversion. 


(d) *Solvent recovery unit.* If you own or operate a solvent recovery unit to comply with § 63.3320, you must meet the requirements in either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section depending on how control efficiency is determined. 


(1) *Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS).* If you are demonstrating compliance with the emission standards in § 63.3320 through continuous emission monitoring of a control device, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the CEMS according to paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) Measure the total organic volatile matter mass flow rate at both the control device inlet and the outlet such that the reduction efficiency can be determined. Each continuous emission monitor must comply with performance specification 6, 8, or 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate. 


(ii) You must follow the quality assurance procedures in procedure 1, appendix F of 40 CFR part 60. In conducting the quarterly audits of the monitors as required by procedure 1, appendix F, you must use compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled. 


(iii) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours when the process is operated. Invalid or missing data should be reported as a deviation in the semiannual compliance report.


(2) *Liquid-liquid material balance.* If you are demonstrating compliance with the emission standards in § 63.3320 through liquid-liquid material balance, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile matter recovered by the solvent recovery device on a monthly basis. The device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±2.0 percent by mass. 


(e) *Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS).* If you are using a control device to comply with the emission standards in § 63.3320, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (e)(10) and (11) and (f) of this section according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraph (c) of this section according to paragraphs (e)(5) through (8) of this section.


(1) Each CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation to have a valid hour of data. 


(2) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours when the process operated.


(3) You must determine the hourly average of all recorded readings according to paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) To calculate a valid hourly value, you must have at least three of four equally spaced data values from that hour from a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that is not out-of-control. 


(ii) Provided all of the readings recorded in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section clearly demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard that applies to you, then you are not required to determine the hourly average of all recorded readings. 


(4) You must determine the block 3-hour average of all recorded readings for each operating period. To calculate the average for each 3-hour averaging period, you must have at least two of three of the hourly averages for that period using only average values that are based on valid data (*i.e.,* not from out-of-control periods).


(5) Except for temperature sensors, you must develop a quality control program that must contain, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes the procedures for each of the operations in § 63.3350(e)(5)(i) through (vi). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. For temperature sensors, you must follow the requirements in § 63.3350(e)(10).


(i) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the continuous monitoring system (CMS);


(ii) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the CMS;


(iii) Preventative maintenance of the CMS, including spare parts inventory;


(iv) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;


(v) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and


(vi) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning CMS.


(6) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS. 


(7) At all times, you must maintain the monitoring system in proper working order including, but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment. 


(8) Except for monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, or required quality assurance or control activities (including calibration checks or required zero and span adjustments), you must conduct all monitoring at all times that the unit is operating. Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities shall not be used for purposes of calculating the emissions concentrations and percent reductions specified in § 63.3370. You must use all the valid data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance of the control device and associated control system. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. 


(9) Any averaging period for which you do not have valid monitoring data and such data are required constitutes a deviation, and you must notify the Administrator in accordance with § 63.3400(c). 


(10) *Oxidizer.* If you are using an oxidizer to comply with the emission standards of this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Install, maintain, and operate temperature monitoring equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications.


(ii) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, install, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Fahrenheit or ±1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor must be installed in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone.


(iii) For a catalytic oxidizer, install, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Fahrenheit or ±1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor must be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet and outlet of the catalyst bed. Calculate the temperature rise across the catalyst.


(iv) For temperature sensors, you must develop a quality control program that must contain, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes the procedures for verifying that the temperature sensor is operating properly using at least one of the methods in paragraph (e)(10)(iv)(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of this section. The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator:


(A) Semiannually, compare measured readings to a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable temperature measurement device or simulate a typical operating temperature using a NIST traceable temperature simulation device. When the temperature measurement device method is used, the sensor of the calibrated device must be placed as close as practicable to the process sensor, and both devices must be subjected to the same environmental conditions. The accuracy of the temperature measured must be 2.5 percent of the temperature measured by the NIST traceable device or 5 degrees Fahrenheit whichever is greater.


(B) Annually validate the temperature sensor by following applicable mechanical and electrical validation procedures in the manufacturer owner's manual.


(C) Annually request the temperature sensor manufacturer to certify or re-certify electromotive force (electrical properties) of the thermocouple.


(D) Annually replace the temperature sensor with a new certified temperature sensor in lieu of validation.


(E) Permanently install a redundant temperature sensor as close as practicable to the process temperature sensor. The sensors must yield a reading within 2.5 percent of each other for thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.


(F) Permanently install a temperature sensor with dual sensors to account for the possibility of failure.


(v) Conduct the validation checks in paragraph (e)(10)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section any time the temperature sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.


(vi) At least quarterly, inspect temperature sensor components for proper connection and integrity or continuously operate an electronic monitoring system designed to notify personnel if the signal from the temperature sensor is interrupted.


(11) *Other types of control devices.* If you use a control device other than an oxidizer or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit, you must apply to the Administrator for approval of an alternative monitoring method under § 63.8(f). 


(f) *Capture system monitoring.* If you are complying with the emission standards in § 63.3320 through the use of a capture system and control device for one or more web coating lines, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for these capture systems. You must monitor the capture system in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section. You must make the monitoring plan available for inspection by the permitting authority upon request. 


(1) The monitoring plan must: 


(i) Identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency determined during the initial compliance test is maintained; and 


(ii) Explain why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance; and 


(iii) Identify the specific monitoring procedures. 


(2) The monitoring plan must specify the operating parameter value or range of values that demonstrate compliance with the emission standards in § 63.3320. The specified operating parameter value or range of values must represent the conditions present when the capture system is being properly operated and maintained. 


(3) You must conduct all capture system monitoring in accordance with the plan. 


(4) Any deviation from the operating parameter value or range of values which are monitored according to the plan will be considered a deviation from the operating limit. 


(5) You must review and update the capture system monitoring plan at least annually. 



---

[N] [67 FR 72341, Dec. 4, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 41297, July 9, 2020]







