# § 170.409   Oral and posted notification of worker entry restrictions.

(a) *General Requirement.* The agricultural employer must notify workers of all entry restrictions required by §§ 170.405 and 170.407 in accordance with this section.


(1*) Type of notification required*—(i) *Double notification.* If the pesticide product labeling has a statement requiring both the posting of treated areas and oral notification to workers, the agricultural employer must post signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and must also provide oral notification of the application to workers in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(ii) *Outdoor production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals greater than 48 hours.* If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval greater than 48 hours is applied to an outdoor production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(iii) *Outdoor production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals equal to or less than 48 hours.* If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval equal to or less than 48 hours is applied to an outdoor production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application either by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or by providing workers with an oral warning in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(iv) *Enclosed space production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals greater than four hours.* If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval greater than four hours is applied to an enclosed space production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(v) *Enclosed space production areas subject to restricted-entry intervals equal to or less than four hours.* If a pesticide with product labeling that requires a restricted-entry interval equal to or less than four hours is applied to an enclosed space production area, the agricultural employer must notify workers of the application either by posting warning signs in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section or by providing workers with an oral warning in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Exceptions.* Notification does not need to be given to a worker if the agricultural employer can ensure that one of the following is met:


(i) From the start of the application in an enclosed space production area until the end of any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter any part of the entire enclosed structure or space.


(ii) From the start of the application to an outdoor production area until the end of any restricted-entry interval, the worker will not enter, work in, remain in, or pass on foot through the treated area or any area within 
1/4 mile of the treated area on the agricultural establishment.


(iii) The worker was involved in the application of the pesticide as a handler, and is aware of all information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(b) *Requirements for posted warning signs.* If notification by posted warning signs is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the agricultural employer must, unless otherwise prescribed by the label, ensure that all warning signs meet the requirements of this paragraph. When several contiguous areas are to be treated with pesticides on a rotating or sequential basis, the entire area may be posted. Worker entry is prohibited for the entire area while the signs are posted, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.


(1) *General.* The warning signs must meet all of the following requirements:


(i) Be one of the three sizes specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and comply with the posting placement and spacing requirements applicable to that sign size.


(ii) Be posted prior to but no earlier than 24 hours before the scheduled application of the pesticide.


(iii) Remain posted throughout the application and any restricted-entry interval.


(iv) Be removed or covered within three days after the end of the application or any restricted-entry interval, whichever is later, except that signs may remain posted after the restricted-entry interval has expired as long as all of the following conditions are met:


(A) The agricultural employer instructs any workers on the establishment that may come within 
1/4 mile of the treated area not to enter that treated area while the signs are posted.


(B) The agricultural employer ensures that workers do not enter the treated area while the signs remain posted, other than entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.


(v) Remain visible and legible during the time they are required to be posted.


(2) *Content.* (i) The warning sign must have a white background. The words “DANGER” and “PELIGRO,” plus “PESTICIDES” and “PESTICIDAS,” must be at the top of the sign, and the words “KEEP OUT” and “NO ENTRE” must be at the bottom of the sign. Letters for all words must be clearly legible. A circle containing an upraised hand on the left and a stern face on the right must be near the center of the sign. The inside of the circle must be red, except that the hand and a large portion of the face must be in white. The length of the hand must be at least twice the height of the smallest letters. The length of the face must be only slightly smaller than the hand. Additional information such as the name of the pesticide and the date of application may appear on the warning sign if it does not detract from the size and appearance of the sign or change the meaning of the required information. An example of a warning sign meeting these requirements, other than the size and color requirements, follows:


(ii) The agricultural employer may replace the Spanish language portion of the warning sign with equivalent terms in an alternative non-English language if that alternative language is the language read by the largest group of workers at that agricultural establishment who do not read English. The alternative language sign must be in the same format as the original sign and conform to all other requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Size and posting.* (i) The standard sign must be at least 14 inches by 16 inches with letters at least one inch in height.


(ii) When posting an outdoor production area using the standard sign, the signs must be visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area, including at least each access road, each border with any worker housing area within 100 feet of the treated area and each footpath and other walking route that enters the treated area. Where there are no reasonably expected points of worker entry, signs must be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.


(iii) When posting an enclosed space production area using the standard sign and the entire structure or space is subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407, the signs must be posted so they are visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the structure or space. When posting treated areas in enclosed space production using the standard sign and the treated area only comprises a subsection of the structure or space, the signs must be posted so they are visible from all reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area including each aisle or other walking route that enters the treated area. Where there are no reasonably expected points of worker entry to the treated area, signs must be posted in the corners of the treated area or in any other location affording maximum visibility.


(iv) If a smaller warning sign is used with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters at least 7/8 inch in height and the remaining letters at least 1/2 inch in height and a red circle at least three inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs must be posted no farther than 50 feet apart around the perimeter of the treated area in addition to the locations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.


(v) If a smaller sign is used with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters at least 7/16 inch in height and the remaining letters at least 1/4 inch in height and a red circle at least one and a half inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face, the signs must be posted no farther than 25 feet apart around the perimeter of the treated area in addition to the locations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.


(vi) A sign with “DANGER” and “PELIGRO” in letters less than 7/16 inch in height or with any words in letters less than 1/4 inch in height or a red circle smaller than one and a half inches in diameter containing an upraised hand and a stern face will not satisfy the requirements of the rule.


(c) *Oral warnings*—*Requirement.* If oral notification is required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the agricultural employer must provide oral warnings to workers in a manner that the workers can understand. If a worker will be on the establishment when an application begins, the warning must be given before the application begins. If a worker arrives on the establishment while an application is taking place or a restricted-entry interval for a pesticide application is in effect, the warning must be given at the beginning of the worker's work period. The warning must include all of the following:


(1) The location(s) and description of any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.


(2) The dates and times during which entry is restricted in any treated area(s) subject to the entry restrictions during and after application specified in §§ 170.405 and 170.407.


(3) Instructions not to enter the treated area or an application exclusion zone during application, and that entry to the treated area is not allowed until the restricted-entry interval has expired and all treated area warning signs have been removed or covered, except for entry permitted by § 170.603 of this part.




