# ยง 1980.1020   Scoring.

The Agency will score each eligible application seeking funding under this subpart as described in this section.












(a) *Program scoring.* The Agency will score each application using the criteria for the applicable covered program, identified in ยง 1980.1002. The maximum number of points an application can receive under this paragraph (a) is based on the scoring criteria for the applicable program identified in ยง 1980.1002, including any discretionary points that may be awarded.


(b) *SECD scoring.* The Agency will score each application using the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. The maximum number of points an application can receive under this paragraph (b) is 20 points.


(1) *Objectives of the plan.* The Agency will score how the project supports achieving the objectives of a plan which are identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii). Applicants must supply sufficient documentation that demonstrates to the Agency the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section are met. The maximum score under this paragraph (b)(1) is 10 points.


(i) If the project directly supports implementation of three or more of the plan's objectives, the application will receive 10 points.


(ii) If the project directly supports implementation of two of the plan's objectives, the application will receive 5 points.


(iii) If the project directly supports implementation of less than two of the plan's objectives, the application will receive no points.


(2) *Characteristics of a plan.* The Agency will score the plan associated with a Project based upon the characteristics of the plan, which are identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. Applicants must supply sufficient documentation that demonstrates to the Agency the criteria identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section are met. The maximum score under this paragraph (b)(2) is 10 points.


(i) *Variety of activities.* If the plan contains a variety of activities which clearly show facilitation toward achieving the vision for the rural communities and/or region as expressed in the plan, two points will be awarded.


(ii) *Regional resources leverage.* If the plan demonstrates an understanding of the applicable regional asset resources and indicates leveraging of those resources to support the plan, including cultural resources, natural resources, human resources, infrastructure, and financial resources, two points will be awarded.


(iii) *Strategic partner investments.* If the Plan includes investments from strategic partners other than the U.S. Department of Agriculture, two points will be awarded.


(iv) *Participation by multiple stakeholders.* If the plan provides evidence of the involvement of multiple stakeholders from multiple jurisdictions and representing multiple sectors in the preparation, implementation, monitoring and/or evaluation of the plan, Rural Development (RD) will award two points.


(v) *Objectives, performance measures, and action steps.* If the plan contains clear, measurable objectives, the ability to track progress toward meeting the objectives and identifiable action steps for implementation, two points will be awarded.




(c) *Total score.* The Agency will sum the scores each application receives under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in order to rank applications.





---

[N] [80 FR 28816, May 20, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 59394, Sept. 22, 2020]






