# § 29.25   Weight limits.

(a) *Maximum weight.* The maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) or, at the option of the applicant, the highest weight for each altitude and for each practicably separable operating condition, such as takeoff, enroute operation, and landing, must be established so that it is not more than—


(1) The highest weight selected by the applicant; 


(2) The design maximum weight (the highest weight at which compliance with each applicable structural loading condition of this part is shown); or 


(3) The highest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown.


(4) For Category B rotorcraft with 9 or less passenger seats, the maximum weight, altitude, and temperature at which the rotorcraft can safely operate near the ground with the maximum wind velocity determined under § 29.143(c) and may include other demonstrated wind velocities and azimuths. The operating envelopes must be stated in the Limitations section of the Rotorcraft Flight Manual.


(b) *Minimum weight.* The minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable requirement of this part is shown) must be established so that it is not less than—


(1) The lowest weight selected by the applicant; 


(2) The design minimum weight (the lowest weight at which compliance with each structural loading condition of this part is shown); or 


(3) The lowest weight at which compliance with each applicable flight requirement of this part is shown. 


(c) *Total weight with jettisonable external load.* A total weight for the rotorcraft with a jettisonable external load attached that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section may be established for any rotorcraft-load combination if—


(1) The rotorcraft-load combination does not include human external cargo,


(2) Structural component approval for external load operations under either § 29.865 or under equivalent operational standards is obtained,


(3) The portion of the total weight that is greater than the maximum weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is made up only of the weight of all or part of the jettisonable external load,


(4) Structural components of the rotorcraft are shown to comply with the applicable structural requirements of this part under the increased loads and stresses caused by the weight increase over that established under paragraph (a) of this section, and


(5) Operation of the rotorcraft at a total weight greater than the maximum certificated weight established under paragraph (a) of this section is limited by appropriate operating limitations under § 29.865 (a) and (d) of this part.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55471, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 29-43, 64 FR 43020, Aug. 6, 1999; Amdt. 29-51, 73 FR 11001, Feb. 29, 2008] 




