# § 63.1254   Standards: Process vents.

(a) *Existing sources.* For each process, the owner or operator of an existing affected source must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section or paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section. Initial compliance with the required emission limits or reductions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section is demonstrated in accordance with the initial compliance procedures described in § 63.1257(d), and continuous compliance is demonstrated in accordance with the monitoring requirements described in § 63.1258. 


(1) *Process-based emission reduction requirement.* (i) Uncontrolled HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within a process that are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be reduced by 93 percent or greater by weight, or as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. Notification of changes in the compliance method shall be reported according to the procedures in § 63.1260(h). 


(ii) Any one or more vents within a process may be controlled in accordance with any of the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. All other vents within the process must be controlled as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. 


(A) To outlet concentrations less than or equal to 20 ppmv as TOC and less than or equal to 20 ppmv as hydrogen halides and halogens; 


(B) By a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.11(b); 


(C) By a control device specified in § 63.1257(a)(4); or


(D) In accordance with the alternative standard specified in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(2) *Process-based annual mass limit.* (i) Actual HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within a process must not exceed 900 kilograms (kg) in any 365-day period. 


(ii) Actual HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within processes complying with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section are limited to a maximum of 1,800 kg in any 365-day period. 


(iii) Emissions from vents that are subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section and emissions from vents that are controlled in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section may be excluded from the sums calculated in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(iv) The owner or operator may switch from compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section to compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section only after at least 1 year of operation in compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Notification of such a change in the compliance method shall be reported according to the procedures in § 63.1260(h). 


(3) *Individual vent emission reduction requirements.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, uncontrolled HAP emissions from a process vent must be reduced by 98 percent or in accordance with any of the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section if the uncontrolled HAP emissions from the vent exceed 25 tons per year, and the flow-weighted average flowrate (FRa) calculated using Equation 1 of this subpart is less than or equal to the flowrate index (FRI) calculated using Equation 2 of this subpart. 


(ii) *Grandfathering provisions.* As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator may comply with the provisions in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, if applicable. 


(A) *Control device operation.* If the owner or operator can demonstrate that a process vent is controlled by a control device meeting the criteria specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A)(*1*) of this section, then the control device is required to be operated according to paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A)(*2*), (*3*), and (*4*) of this section: 


(*1*) The control device was installed on any process vent that met the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section on or before April 2, 1997, and was operated to reduce uncontrolled emissions of total HAP by greater than or equal to 93 percent by weight, but less than 98 percent by weight; 


(*2*) The device must be operated to reduce inlet emissions of total HAP by 93 percent or by the percent reduction specified for that control device in any preconstruction permit issued pursuant to regulations approved or promulgated through rulemaking under title I (including parts C or D) of the Clean Air Act, whichever is greater; 


(*3*) The device must be replaced or upgraded to achieve at least 98 percent reduction of HAP or meet any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section upon reconstruction or replacement. 


(*4*) The device must be replaced or upgraded to achieve at least 98 percent reduction of HAP or meet any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section by April 2, 2007, or 15 years after issuance of the preconstruction permit, whichever is later. 


(B) *Process operations.* If a process meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(B)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, the required level of control for the process is the level that was achieved on or before April 2, 1997. This level of control is demonstrated using the same procedures that are used to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(*1*) At least one vent in the process met the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section on or before April 2, 1997; and


(*2*) The overall control for the process on or before April 2, 1997 was greater than or equal to 93 percent by weight, but less than 98 percent by weight; and


(*3*) The production-indexed HAP consumption factor for the 12-month period in which the process was operated prior to the compliance date is less than one-half of the 3-year average baseline value established no earlier than the 1987 through 1989 calendar years. 


(C) *Hydrogenation vents.* Processes meeting the conditions of paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section are required to be operated to maintain the level of control achieved on or before April 2, 1997. For all other processes meeting the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(C)(*3*) of this section, uncontrolled HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within the process must be reduced by 95 percent or greater by weight. 


(*1*) Processes containing a process vent that met the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section on or before April 2, 1997; and


(*2*) Processes that are controlled to greater than or equal to 93 percent by weight, but less than 98 percent by weight; and


(*3*) Processes with a hydrogenation vent that, in conjunction with all other process vents from the process that do not meet the conditions of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, cannot meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(4) *Planned routine maintenance.* For each PMPU that is controlled with a CCCD, the owner or operator must comply with the provisions specified in either paragraph (a)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section during periods of planned routine maintenance of the CCCD. The owner or operator is not required to comply with the same provision for all of the PMPU's controlled by the CCCD.


(i) Shutdown the affected process. 


(ii) Comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section by using other means. 


(iii) For a non-dedicated PMPU, implement the procedures described in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section for those process vents that are normally controlled by the CCCD. This option is not available for process vents from dedicated PMPU's. 


(A) If the owner or operator uses a CCCD to comply with the 93 percent reduction requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the outlet concentration limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the alternative standard as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(D) and (c) of this section, or the annual mass limit in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, implement the provisions in § 63.1252(h) during planned routine maintenance of the CCCD. 


(B) If the owner or operator reduces HAP emissions from process vents by using a CCCD that is also a control device specified in § 63.1257(a)(4), implement the provisions in § 63.1252(h) during planned routine maintenance of the CCCD. 


(C) If the owner or operator uses a CCCD to reduce emissions from a process vent subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, implement the planned routine maintenance provisions in § 63.1252(h) for that vent only if the reason the planned routine maintenance is needed, and the reason it cannot be performed at a time when the vent subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section is not operating, has been described in the Notification of Compliance Status Report or a periodic report submitted before the planned routine maintenance event.


(b) *New sources.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, uncontrolled HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within a process at a new affected source shall be reduced by 98 percent or greater by weight or controlled in accordance with any of requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. Initial compliance with the required emission limit or reduction is demonstrated in accordance with the initial compliance procedures in § 63.1257(d), and continuous compliance is demonstrated in accordance with the monitoring requirements described in § 63.1258. 


(2) *Annual mass limit.* The actual HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents for which the owner or operator is not complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section are limited to 900 kg in any 365-day period. 


(c) *Alternative standard.* As an alternative standard, the owner or operator of an existing or new affected source may comply with the process vent standards by routing vents from a process to a combustion control device achieving an outlet TOC concentration, as calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP, of 20 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halides and halogens of 20 ppmv or less. If the owner or operator is routing emissions to a noncombustion control device, it must achieve an outlet TOC concentration, as calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP, of 50 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halides and halogens of 50 ppmv or less. Any process vents within a process that are not routed to this control device must be controlled in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable. Initial compliance with the outlet concentrations is demonstrated in accordance with the initial compliance procedures described in § 63.1257(d)(1)(iv), and continuous compliance is demonstrated in accordance with the emission monitoring requirements described in § 63.1258(b)(5).



---

[N] [65 FR 52601, Aug. 29, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 40132, Aug. 2, 2001]




