# § 383.131   Test manuals.

(a) *Driver information manual.* (1) A State must provide an FMCSA pre-approved driver information manual to a CLP or CDL applicant. The manual must be comparable to the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators' (AAMVA's) “2005 CDL Test System (July 2010 or newer Version) Model Commercial Driver Manual”, which FMCSA has approved and provides to all State Driver Licensing Agencies. The driver information manual must include:


(i) Information on how to obtain a CDL and endorsements;


(ii) Information on the requirements described in § 383.71, the implied consent to alcohol testing described in § 383.72, the procedures and penalties contained in § 383.51(b) to which a CLP or CDL holder is exposed for refusal to comply with such alcohol testing, State procedures described in § 383.73, and other appropriate driver information contained in subpart E of this part;


(iii) Information on vehicle groups and endorsements as specified in subpart F of this part;


(iv) The substance of the knowledge and skills that drivers must have, as outlined in subpart G of this part for the different vehicle groups and endorsements; and


(v) Details of testing procedures, including the purpose of the tests, how to respond, and directions for taking the tests.


(2) A State may include any additional State-specific information related to the CDL testing and licensing process.


(b) *Examiner information manual.* (1) A State must provide an FMCSA pre-approved examiner information manual that conforms to model requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i-xi) of this section to all knowledge and skills test examiners. To be pre-approved by FMCSA, the examiner information manual must be comparable to AAMVA's “2005 CDL Test System (July 2010 or newer Version) Model CDL Examiner's Manual,” which FMCSA has approved and provides to all State Driver Licensing Agencies. The examiner information manual must include:


(i) Information on driver application procedures contained in § 383.71, State procedures described in § 383.73, and other appropriate driver information contained in subpart E of this part;


(ii) Details on information that must be given to the applicant;


(iii) Details on how to conduct the knowledge and skills tests;


(iv) Scoring procedures and minimum passing scores for the knowledge and skills tests;


(v) Information for selecting driving test routes for the skills tests;


(vi) List of the skills to be tested;


(vii) Instructions on where and how the skills will be tested;


(viii) How performance of the skills will be scored;


(ix) Causes for automatic failure of skills tests;


(x) Standardized scoring sheets for the skills tests; and


(xi) Standardized driving instructions for the applicants.


(2) A State may include any additional State-specific information related to the CDL testing process.



---

[N] [76 FR 26891, May 9, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 68347, Oct. 4, 2016]




