# § 257.101   Closure or retrofit of CCR units.

(a) The owner or operator of an existing unlined CCR surface impoundment, as determined under § 257.71(a), is subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(1) Except as provided by paragraph (a)(3) of this section, as soon as technically feasible, but not later than April 11, 2021, an owner or operator of an existing unlined CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR surface impoundment and either retrofit or close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) An owner or operator of an existing unlined CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) or (k)(5) that the CCR surface impoundment is closing or retrofitting under the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.




(3) The timeframe specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply if the owner or operator complies with the alternate liner demonstration provisions specified in § 257.71(d) or the alternative closure procedures specified in § 257.103.




(4) At any time after the initiation of closure under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may cease closure activities and initiate a retrofit of the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102(k).


(b) The owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(1)(i) *Location standard under § 257.60.* Except as provided by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment that has not demonstrated compliance with the location standard specified in § 257.60(a) must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit as soon as technically feasible, but no later than April 11, 2021, and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(ii) *Location standards under §§ 257.61 through 257.64.* Except as provided by paragraph (b)(4) of this section, within six months of determining that an existing CCR surface impoundment has not demonstrated compliance with any location standard specified in §§ 257.61(a), 257.62(a), 257.63(a), and 257.64(a), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) Within six months of either failing to complete the initial or any subsequent periodic safety factor assessment required by § 257.73(e) by the deadlines specified in § 257.73(f)(1) through (3) or failing to document that the calculated factors of safety for the existing CCR surface impoundment achieve the minimum safety factors specified in § 257.73(e)(1)(i) through (iv), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(3) An owner or operator of an existing CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR surface impoundment is closing under the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.


(4) The timeframe specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if the owner or operator complies with the alternative closure procedures specified in § 257.103.


(c) The owner or operator of a new CCR surface impoundment is subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(1) Within six months of either failing to complete the initial or any subsequent periodic safety factor assessment required by § 257.74(e) by the deadlines specified in § 257.74(f)(1) through (3) or failing to document that the calculated factors of safety for the new CCR surface impoundment achieve the minimum safety factors specified in § 257.74(e)(1)(i) through (v), the owner or operator of the CCR surface impoundment must cease placing CCR and non-CCR wastestreams into such CCR unit and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) An owner or operator of an new CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR surface impoundment is closing under the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) The owner or operator of an existing CCR landfill is subject to the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(1) Except as provided by paragraph (d)(3) of this section, within six months of determining that an existing CCR landfill has not demonstrated compliance with the location restriction for unstable areas specified in § 257.64(a), the owner or operator of the CCR unit must cease placing CCR and non-CCR waste streams into such CCR landfill and close the CCR unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) An owner or operator of an existing CCR landfill that closes in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR landfill is closing under the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(3) The timeframe specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply if the owner or operator complies with the alternative closure procedures specified in § 257.103.




(e) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator of a legacy CCR surface impoundment is subject to the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) No later than Monday, May 8, 2028, an owner or operator of a legacy CCR surface impoundment must initiate the closure of the legacy CCR surface impoundment in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) An owner or operator of a legacy CCR surface impoundment that closes in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the legacy CCR surface impoundment is closing under the requirement of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(f) Except as provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, the owner or operator of a CCR management unit must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) No later than Tuesday, May 8, 2029, an owner or operator of a CCR management unit must initiate the closure of the CCR management unit in accordance with the requirements of § 257.102.


(2) An owner or operator of a CCR management unit that closes in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section must include a statement in the notification required under § 257.102(g) that the CCR management unit is closing under the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) Deferral to permitting for closures conducted under substantially equivalent regulatory authority. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, the owner or operator of a CCR management unit or a legacy CCR surface impoundment need not demonstrate compliance with the performance standards in § 257.102(c) or (d) provided they demonstrate that the closure of the CCR unit met the standards specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(6) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must document that a regulatory authority played an active role in overseeing and approving the closure and any necessary corrective action, pursuant to an enforceable requirement. This includes a State or Federal permit, an administrative order, or consent order issued after 2015 under CERCLA or by an EPA-approved RCRA State program.


(2) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must document that the regulatory authority required or conducted a site-specific risk assessment prior to (or as part of) approving the closure and any necessary corrective action.


(3) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must document that it installed a groundwater monitoring system and performed groundwater monitoring that meets all of the following:


(i) Was capable of accurately representing background water quality;


(ii) Was capable of accurately representing the quality of water passing the waste boundary;


(iii) Was capable of detecting contamination in the uppermost aquifer; and


(iv) Monitored all potential contaminant pathways.


(4) Must document that the closed unit meets either:


(i) The performance standard in § 257.60; or


(ii) The performance standard in § 257.102(d)(2)(i).


(5) The owner or operator must include the following statement, signed by the owner or operator or an authorized representative, in the facility evaluation report for CCR management units specified in § 257.75 or applicability report for legacy CCR surface impoundments specified in § 257.100(f)(1) along with all information required by paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of the section:


(6) Closure equivalency determination at permitting. The owner or operator must submit the following documentation to the permit authority.


(i) A permit application that contains sufficient information, including data on contaminant levels in groundwater, to demonstrate that the applicable § 257.102 standards have been met.


(ii) EPA will review the information to determine whether the “equivalency” of the closure has been successfully demonstrated. If EPA or a Participating State Director determines that the closure has met the appropriate part 257 closure standard, EPA or a Participating State Director will issue a permit to require compliance with applicable post-closure requirements. If EPA or a Participating State Director determines that the closure does not meet the part 257 standards, the owner or operator will be required to submit a complete permit application and obtain a permit that contains the specific requirements necessary for the closed unit to achieve compliance with § 257.102.


(h) Deferral for CCR management units under critical infrastructure. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of a CCR management unit located beneath critical infrastructure need not initiate closure until the infrastructure is no longer needed, EPA or a Participating State Director determines closure is necessary to ensure that there is no reasonable probability of adverse effects on human health or the environment, or the closure or decommissioning of the facility, whichever occurs first. Owners and operators of CCR management units under active disposal units must meet either:


(1) Demonstrate that the CCR management unit complies with the performance standard in § 257.60; or


(2) Demonstrate that the CCR management unit complies with the performance standard in § 257.102(d)(2)(i).





---

[N] [80 FR 21468, Apr. 17, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 36454, July 30, 2018; 85 FR 53561, Aug. 28, 2020; 85 FR 72542, Nov. 12, 2020; 89 FR 39108, May 8, 2024]












