# 719.271-7   Reports on procurement actions that are exempted from screening.

(a) *Unilateral and class set-asides.* The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in 719.271-6, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU. The original will be filed in the contract file.


(1) If, upon review of the material submitted under 719.271-7(a) above, OSDBU concludes that it would be practicable to accomplish all or a portion of the procurement involved under section 8(a) subcontracting, it shall so advise the contracting officer in writing within five days after receipt of such material.


(2) Such advice shall be considered a counter-recommendation and shall be processed in accordance with 719.271-6 (d) and (e).


(b) *Public exigency exemption.* The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in 719.271-6, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU. In addition to the documentation called for in 719.271-6, the contracting officer shall furnish a copy of his/her written determination exempting the procurement from screening. The determination shall cite the pertinent facts which led to his/her decision. This exemption is not intended to be used as substitute for good procurement planning and lead-time; OSDBU will report abuses of this exemption to the head of the contracting activity for appropriate action in accordance with 719.271-4(c).


(c) *Institution building contract (IBC) exemption.* The contracting officer shall prepare Form USAID 1410-14 as stated in 719.271-6, but forward only the duplicate copy with the documentation required by Block 5 of the form to OSDBU.


(d) *Personal services contract exemption.* Preparation of Form USAID 1410-14 is not required for personal services contracts.



---

[N] [49 FR 13243, Apr. 3, 1984, as amended at 79 FR 74993, Dec. 16, 2014]




