# § 33.61   Review of State applications.

(a) *Review criteria.* The Act provides the basis for review and approval or disapproval of state applications and amendments in whole or in part. These are:


(1) Compliance with the statutory requirements of the Justice Assistance Act and the regulations of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. Section 406(a)(1) of the Act.


(2) Compliance with Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.” This program is covered by Executive Order 12372 and Department of Justice Implementing regulations 28 CFR part 30. States must submit block grant applications to the state “Single Point of Contact”, if there is a “Single Point of Contact”, and if this program has been selected for coverage by the state process, at the same time applications are submitted to the Bureau of Justice Assistance. State processes have 60 days starting from the application submission date to comment on applications. Applicants should contact their state “Single Point of Contact” as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective application and receive instructions regarding the process.


(b) *Sixty day rule.* The Bureau of Justice Assistance shall approve or disapprove applications or amendments within sixty (60) days of official receipt. The application or amendment shall be considered approved unless the Bureau of Justice Assistance informs the applicant in writing of specific reasons for disapproval prior to the expiration of the 60-day period. Applications that are incomplete, as determined by the Bureau of Justice Assistance, shall not be considered officially received for purposes of the 60-day rule. Section 406(a)(2) of the Act.


(c) *Written notification and reasons for disapproval.* The Bureau of Justice Assistance shall notify the applicant in writing of the specific reasons for the disapproval of the application or amendment, in whole or in part. Section 406(a)(2) of the Act.


(d) *Affirmative finding.* The Bureau of Justice Assistance, prior to approval of the application or amendments, must make an affirmative finding in writing that the program or project has been reviewed in accordance with section 405 of the Act and is likely to contribute effectively to the achievement of the objectives of the Act. Section 406(a)(2) of the Act.




