# ยง 245a.14   Application for class membership in the 

The Service will first determine whether an alien filed a written claim for class membership in the *CSS, LULAC,* or *Zambrano* lawsuit as reflected in the Service's indices, a review of the alien's administrative file with the Service, and by all evidence provided by the alien. An alien must provide with the application for LIFE Legalization evidence establishing that, before October 1, 2000, he or she was a class member applicant in the *CSS, LULAC,* or *Zambrano* lawsuit. An alien should include as many forms of evidence as the alien has available to him or her. Such forms of evidence include, but are not limited to:


(a) An Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or other employment document issued by the Service pursuant to the alien's class membership in the *CSS, LULAC,* or *Zambrano* lawsuit (if a photocopy of the EAD is submitted, the alien's name, A-number, issuance date, and expiration date should be clearly visible);


(b) Service document(s) addressed to the alien, or his or her representative, granting or denying the class membership, which includes date, alien's name and A-number;


(c) The questionnaire for class member applicant under *CSS, LULAC,* or *Zambrano* submitted with the class membership application, which includes date, alien's full name and date of birth;


(d) Service document(s) addressed to the alien, or his or her representative, discussing matters pursuant to the class membership application, which includes date, alien's name and A-number. These include, but are not limited to the following:


(1) Form I-512, Parole authorization, or denial of such;


(2) Form I-221, Order to Show Cause;


(3) Form I-862, Notice to Appear;


(4) Final order of removal or deportation;


(5) Request for evidence letter (RFE); or 


(6) Form I-687 submitted with the class membership application.


(e) Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, submitted pursuant to a court order granting interim relief. 


(f) An application for a stay of deportation, exclusion, or removal pursuant to a court's order granting interim relief.


(g) Any other relevant document(s).



---

[N] [66 FR 29673, June 1, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 38351, June 4, 2002]




