# § 38.12   Leave system for education personnel.

(a) *Full-time school-term employees.* Employees on a full-time school-term contract are authorized the following types of leave:


(1) *Personal leave.* A school-term employee will receive 28 hours of personal leave to be used for personal reasons and 12 hours of emergency leave. This leave only accrues provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks.


(i) The school-term employee will request the use of this leave in advance when it is for personal use or personal business (e.g., going to the bank, etc.). When this leave is requested for emergency purposes (e.g., death in immediate family), it will be requested immediately after the emergency is known, if possible, by the employee and before leave is taken or as soon as the supervisor reports to work on the official work day.


(ii) Final approval rests with the supervisor. This leave shall be taken only during the school term. No compensation for or carryover of unused leave is authorized.


(2) *Sick leave.* Sick leave is an absence approved by the supervisor for incapacity from duty due to injury or illness, not related to or incurred on-the-job and not covered by the Federal Employee's Compensation Act Regulations. Medical and dental appointments may be included under this part. However, whenever possible, medical and dental appointments should be scheduled after instructional time.


(i) Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of four hours each biweekly pay period in pay status during the term of the contract; and no precredit or advance of sick leave is authorized.


(ii) Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.


(3) *School vacation.* School term employees may receive up to 136 hours of school vacation time for use when school is not in session. School vacations are scheduled on the annual school calendar during the instructional year and may not be scheduled before the first day of student instruction or after the last day of student instruction. School vacations are not a right of the employee and cannot be paid for or carried over if the employee is required to work during the school vacation time or if the program will not permit school term employees to take such vacation time.


(b) *Leave for full-time, year-long employees.* Employees who are on a full-time, year-long contract are authorized the following types of leave:


(1) *Vacation leave.* Absence approved in advance by the supervisor for rest and relaxation or other personal reasons is authorized on a per year basis of Federal Government service as follows: years 1 and 2 of employment—120 hours; years 3-5 of employment—160 hours; 6 or more years—200 hours. The supervisor will determine when vacation leave may be used. Vacation leave is to be scheduled and used to the greatest extent possible during periods when school is not in session and the students are not in the dormitories. Vacation leave is credited to an employee on the day following his or her date of employment, provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks. An employee may carry into succeeding years up to 200 hours of vacation leave. Leave unused at the time of separation is forfeited.


(2) *Sick leave.* Sick leave accumulation and use is authorized on the same basis as for school term employees under § 38.12(a)(2) of this part.


(c) *Leave for part-time year-long employees.* Employees who are on part-time year-long contracts exceeding 20 hours per week are authorized the following types of leave:


(1) *Vacation leave.* Absence approved in advance by the supervisor for rest and relaxation or other personal reasons is authorized on a per year basis of Federal Government service as follows: years 1 and 2 of employment—64 hours; years 3-5 of employment—80 hours; 6 or more years—104 hours. The supervisor shall determine when vacation leave may be used. Vacation leave is to be scheduled and used to the greatest extent possible during periods when school is not in session and the students are not in the dormitories. Vacation leave is credited to an employee on the day following his or her date of employment provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks and may not be accumulated in excess of 104 hours from year to year. An employee may carry over up to 104 hours from one contract year to the next. Leave unused at the time of separation is forfeited.


(2) *Sick leave.* Sick leave is accumulated on the basis of three hours each biweekly pay period in pay status; no precredit or advance of sick leave is authorized. Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.


(d) *Leave for school term employees on a part-time work schedule in excess of 20 hours per week.* (1) Employees on a part-time work schedule in excess of 20 hours per week may receive a maximum of 102 hours of school vacation time; 20 hours of personal/emergency leave; and 63 hours of sick leave accrued at three hours per pay period for the first 21 pay periods of their contracts. Personal/emergency leave only accrues provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks.


(2) The part-time employee will request the use of this leave in writing in advance when it is for personal use or personal business (e.g., going to the bank, etc.). When this leave is requested for emergency purposes (e.g., death in immediate family), it will be requested immediately after the emergency is known, if possible, by the employee and before leave is taken or as soon as the supervisor reports to work on the official work day.


(3) Final approval rests with the supervisor. This leave shall be taken only during the school year. No compensation for or carryover of unused leave is authorized.


(4) *Sick leave.* Sick leave is an absence approved by the supervisor for incapacity from duty due to injury or illness, not related to or incurred on-the-job and not covered by the Federal Employee's Compensation Act Regulations. Medical and dental appointments may be included under this part. However, whenever possible, medical and dental appointments should be scheduled after instructional time.


(i) Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of three hours each biweekly pay period in pay status for the first 21 pay periods of their contract; no precredit or advance for sick leave is authorized.


(ii) Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.


(5) *School vacation time.* Part-time employees may receive up to 102 hours of school vacation time for use when school is not in session. Approval for the use of this time will be administratively determined by the school supervisor, ASE or AEPA, and this time may not be scheduled before the start of school or after the end of school.


(i) All school vacation time for part-time employees will be approved at the convenience of the program and not as a right of the employee.


(ii) Vacation time cannot be paid for or carried over for a part-time employee if the employee is required to work during the school vacation time or if the program will not permit part-time employees to take such vacation time. 


(e) *Accountable absences for all contract employees.* The following are considered accountable absences: 


(1) *Approved absence.* If prescheduled and approved by the school supervisor, ASE or AEPA, as appropriate, an employee may be on leave without pay. 


(2) *Absence without leave.* Any absence is not prescheduled or approved in advance or excused by the supervisor is considered absence without leave. 


(3) *Court and military leave.* Employees are entitled to paid absence for jury or witness service and military duty as a member of the National Guard or Reserve under the same terms or conditions as outlined in sections 6322 and 6323 of title 5 U.S.C., and corresponding provisions of the Federal Personnel Manual, when the absence occurs during the regular contract period. Employees may be requested to schedule their military leave at times other than when school is in session. 


(4) *Administrative leave.* Administrative leave is an excused absence from duty administratively authorized without loss of pay or without charge to leave. This leave is not a substitute for other paid or unpaid leave categories. Administrative leave usually is authorized on an individual basis except when a school is closed or a group of employees are excused from work for a particular purpose. The school supervisor, ASE or AEPA will grant administrative leave. A school closing must be approved by the ASE or AEPA. 


(f) Educators serving with contracts with work weeks of 20 hours a week or less are not eligible for any type of paid leave. 


(g) For school term educators, no paid leave is earned nor may accumulated leave be used during any period of employment with the Bureau between school terms. 


(h) Employees issued contracts for intermittent work are not eligible for any type of paid leave. 


(i) *Leave transferred in.* Annual leave credited to an employee's accrued leave balance immediately before conversion to a contract education position or appointment under this part will be carried over and made available to the employee. Sick leave credited to an employee's accrued sick leave balance immediately before conversion to a contract education position or appointment under this part shall be credited to the employee's sick leave account under the system in § 38.12(a)(2) and (b)(2). 




