# § 585.66   Reporting requirements.

(a) *General reporting requirements.* Within 60 days after the end of the production years ending August 31, 2006 and August 31, 2007, each manufacturer must submit a report to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration concerning its compliance with Standard No. 138 (49 CFR 571.138) for its passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) produced in that year. Each report must—


(1) Identify the manufacturer;


(2) State the full name, title, and address of the official responsible for preparing the report;


(3) Identify the production year being reported on;


(4) Contain a statement regarding whether or not the manufacturer complied with the requirements of Standard No. 138 (49 CFR 571.138) for the period covered by the report and the basis for that statement;


(5) Provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section;


(6) Be written in the English language; and


(7) Be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590.


(b) *Report content*—(1) *Basis for statement of compliance.* Each manufacturer must provide the number of passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less, except those vehicles with dual wheels on an axle, manufactured for sale in the United States for each reporting period as follows:


(i) *Period from October 5, 2005 to August 31, 2006.* The number shall be either the manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2002, and before October 5, 2005, or, at the manufacturer's option, it shall be the manufacturer's production on or after October 5, 2005 and before September 1, 2006. A new manufacturer that has not previously manufactured these vehicles for sale in the United States must report the number of such vehicles manufactured during the production period on or after October 5, 2005 and before September 1, 2006.


(ii) *Period from September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007.* The number shall be either the manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2003, and before September 1, 2006, or, at the manufacturer's option, it shall be the manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2006 and before September 1, 2007. A new manufacturer that has not previously manufactured these vehicles for sale in the United States must report the number of such vehicles manufactured during the production period on or after September 1, 2006 and before September 1, 2007.


(2) *Production.* Each manufacturer must report for the production period for which the report is filed: the total number of passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, and buses with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less that meet Standard No. 138 (49 CFR 571.138).


(3) *Statement regarding compliance.* Each manufacturer must provide a statement regarding whether or not the manufacturer complied with the TPMS requirements as applicable to the period covered by the report, and the basis for that statement. This statement must include an explanation concerning the use of any carry-forward and/or carry-backward credits.


(4) *Vehicles produced by more than one manufacturer.* Each manufacturer whose reporting of information is affected by one or more of the express written contracts permitted by S7.5.2 of Standard No. 138 (49 CFR 571.138) must:


(i) Report the existence of each contract, including the names of all parties to the contract, and explain how the contract affects the report being submitted.


(ii) Report the actual number of vehicles covered by each contract. 



---

[N] [70 FR 18190, Apr. 8, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 53101, Sept. 7, 2005]




