# ยง 412.162   Process for reducing the base operating DRG payment amount and applying the value-based incentive payment amount adjustment under the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing (VBP) Program.

(a) *General.* If a hospital meets or exceeds the performance standards that apply to the Hospital VBP Program for a fiscal year, CMS will make value-based incentive payments to the hospital under the requirements and conditions specified in this section.


(b) *Value-based incentive payment amount.* (1) *Available amount.* The value-based incentive payment amount for a discharge is the portion of the payment amount that is attributable to the Hospital VBP Program. The total amount available for value based incentive payments to all hospitals for a fiscal year is equal to the total amount of base-operating DRG payment reductions for that fiscal year, as estimated by the Secretary.


(2) *Calculation of the value-based incentive payment amount.* The value-based incentive payment amount is calculated by multiplying the base operating DRG payment amount by the value-based incentive payment percentage.


(3) *Calculation of the value-based incentive payment percentage.* The value-based incentive payment percentage is calculated as the product of all of the following:


(i) The applicable percent as defined in ยง 412.160.


(ii)(A) For fiscal years before FY 2026, the hospital's Total Performance Score divided by 100; or


(B) Beginning with FY 2026, the hospital's Total Performance Score divided by 110; and


(iii) The linear exchange function slope.


(c) *Methodology to calculate the value-based incentive payment adjustment factor.* The value-based incentive payment adjustment factor for each discharge is determined by subtracting the applicable percent as specified in ยง 412.160 from the value-based incentive payment percentage and then adding that difference to one.



---

[N] [77 FR 53674, Aug. 31, 2012, as amended at 88 FR 59333, Aug. 28, 2023]




