# ยง 1717.154   Transitional assistance in connection with new loans.

Requests for transitional assistance in connection with new loans may be submitted to RUS no later than the loan application. 


(a) *Loan processing priority.* (1) RUS loans are generally processed in chronological order based on the date the complete application is received in the regional or division office. At the borrower's request, RUS may offer loan processing priority for the first loan to a successor, provided that the loan is approved by RUS not later than 5 years after the effective date of the merger. In considering the request, the Administrator will take into account, among other factors, the amount of the loan application, whether there is a significant backlog in pending loan applications, the impact that loan priority would have on the backlog, the savings and efficiencies to be realized from the merger and the relative importance of loan priority to facilitating the merger. The Administrator may, in his or her sole discretion, grant or decline to grant priority, or grant priority for a limited amount of the loan application while deferring for later consideration the remainder of the application. 


(2) For any subsequent loans approved during those 5 years, RUS may offer loan processing priority. In reviewing requests for loan processing priority on subsequent loans, RUS will consider the loan authority for the fiscal year, the borrower's projected cash flows, its electric rates and rate disparity, and the likely mitigation effects of priority loan processing. *See* 7 CFR 1710.108 and 1710.119.


(3) Loan processing priority is available following any merger where at least one of the merging parties is an active borrower. 


(b) *Supplemental financing.* (1) RUS generally requires that an applicant for a municipal rate loan obtain a portion of its debt financing from a supplemental source without an RUS guarantee. See 7 CFR 1710.110. RUS will, at the borrower's request, waive the requirement to obtain supplemental financing for the first RUS loan approved after the effective date if that first loan is a municipal rate loan whose loan period does not exceed 2 years, and the loan is approved by RUS not later than 5 years after the effective date. For any subsequent loans approved during these 5 years, or if the borrower requests a loan period longer than 2 years, RUS may, subject to the availability of loan funds, waive or reduce the amount of supplemental financing required. In reviewing requests to reduce or waive supplemental financing on subsequent loans or on loans with a loan period longer than 2 years, RUS will consider the differences in interest rates between RUS and supplemental loans and the impacts of this difference on the borrower's projected cash flows and its electric rates and rate disparity. If significant differences would result, the waiver will be granted. 


(2) Waiver of supplemental financing may be available if: 


(i) All parties to the merger are active distribution borrowers, *or*

(ii) At least one of the merging parties is an active distribution borrower, all merging parties are either active distribution borrowers or former distribution borrowers, *and* the merger is effective after December 19, 1996. 


(c) *Reimbursement of general funds and interim financing.* (1) Borrowers may request RUS loan funds to reimburse general funds and/or interim financing used to finance equipment and facilities included in a RUS approved construction work plan or amendment if the construction was completed immediately preceding the current loan period. This reimbursement period is generally limited to 48 months. See 7 CFR 1710.109. RUS may, in connection with the first RUS loan approved after the effective date, approve a reimbursement period of up to 48 months prior to the current loan period if the loan is approved not later than 5 years after the effective date. In reviewing requests for this longer reimbursement period, RUS will consider the stresses that the transaction and other costs of entering into the merger places on the borrower's rates and cash flows, and the mitigating effects of more generous reimbursement. 


(2) A longer reimbursement period may be available if: 


(i) All parties to the merger are active distribution borrowers, *or*

(ii) At least one of the merging parties is an active distribution borrower, all merging parties are either active distribution borrowers of former distribution borrowers, *and* the merger is effective after December 19, 1996. 



---

[N] [61 FR 66871, Dec. 19, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 58322, Sept. 16, 2002; 86 FR 36197, July 9, 2021]




