# § 287.2   Scope of section 511 of the Act and the regulations in this part.

(a) *Applicability of regulations.* The regulations prescribed in this part—


(1) Apply to gain realized from the sale or loss of vessels, earnings from the operation of vessels, and interest (or otherwise) with respect to amounts previously deposited in the construction reserve fund, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1964, and


(2) Apply to the expenditure, obligation, or withdrawal, during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1964, of any deposits of gain, earnings, and interest (or otherwise) of the character referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section without regard to the taxable year in which the deposits were made.


(b) *Nonrecognition and accumulation.* Section 511 of the Act provides, under conditions specified, for the nonrecognition, for income and excess-profits tax purposes, of the gain realized from the sale or indemnification for loss of certain vessels including certain vessels in the course of construction, or shares therein. It also permits the accumulation of the proceeds of such sales or indemnification and of certain earnings without liability under part I (section 531 and following), subchapter G, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, and the regulations thereunder (26 CFR 1.531 through 1.537-1 (Income Tax Regulations)).


(c) *Availability of benefits.* The benefits of section 511 of the Act are available to any citizen as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of § 287.1, who, during any taxable year owns, in whole or in part, a vessel or vessels within the scope of § 287.3. A citizen operating such a vessel or vessels owned by any other person or persons can derive no benefit from the provisions relating to the nonrecognition of gain from the sale or loss of such vessel or vessels so owned, but may establish a construction reserve fund in which he may deposit earnings from the operation of such vessel or vessels.


(d) *Applicability of section 511.* Section 511 of the Act applies only with respect to sales or losses of vessels within the scope of § 287.3 or in respect of earnings derived from the operation of such vessels. A loss to be within section 511 of the Act must be an actual or constructive total loss. Whether there is a total loss, actual or constructive, will be determined by the Administration.




