# ยง 228.101   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart, the terms listed in this section have the following meaning: 


*Authorized Forest officer.* The Forest Service employee delegated the authority to perform a duty described in these rules. Generally, a Regional Forester, Forest Supervisor, District Ranger, or Minerals Staff Officer, depending on the scope and level of the duty to be performed. 


*Compliance Officer.* The Deputy Chief, or the Associate Deputy Chiefs, National Forest System or the line officer designated to act in the absence of the Deputy Chief. 


*Leasehold.* The area described in a Federal oil and gas lease, communitized, or unitized area.


*Lessee.* A person or entity holding record title in a lease issued by the United States.


*National Forest System.* All National Forest lands reserved or withdrawn from the public domain of the United States, all National Forest lands acquired through purchase, exchange, donation, or other means, the National Grasslands and land utilization projects administered under title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1010 *et seq.*), and other lands, waters, or interests therein which are administered by the Forest Service or are designated for administration through the Forest Service as a part of the system (16 U.S.C. 1609). 


*Notices to Lessees, Transferees, and Operators.* A written notice issued by the authorized Forest officer. Notices to Lessees, Transferees, and Operators implement the regulations in this subpart and serve as instructions on specific item(s) of importance within a Forest Service Region, National Forest, or Ranger District. 


*Onshore Oil and Gas Order.* A formal numbered order issued by or signed by the Chief of the Forest Service that implements and supplements the regulations in this subpart.


*Operating right.* The interest created out of a lease that authorizes the holder of that interest to enter upon the leased lands to conduct drilling and related operations, including production of oil and gas from such lands in accordance with the terms of the lease. 


*Operating rights owner.* A person holding operating rights in a lease issued by the United States. A leasee also may be an operating rights owner if the operating rights in a lease or portion thereof have not been conveyed to another person.


*Operations.* Surface disturbing activities that are conducted on a leasehold on National Forest System lands pursuant to a current approved surface use plan of operations, including but not limited to, exploration, development, and production of oil and gas resources and reclamation of surface resources.


*Operator.* Any person or entity, including, but not limited to, the lessee or operating rights owner, who has stated in writing to the authorized Forest officer that they are responsible under the terms and conditions of the lease for the operations conducted on the leased lands or a portion thereof.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity.


*Substantial modification.* A change in lease terms or a modification, waiver, or exception of a lease stipulation that would require an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement be prepared pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.


*Surface use plan of operations.* A plan for surface use, disturbance, and reclamation.


*Transfer.* Any conveyance of an interest in a lease by assignment, sublease or otherwise. This definition includes the terms: *Assignment* which means a conveyance of all or a portion of the lessee's record title interest in a lease; and *sublease* which means a conveyance of a non-record interest in a lease, i.e., a conveyance of operating rights is normally a sublease and a sublease also is a subsidiary arrangement between the lessee (sublessor) and the sublessee, but a sublease does not include a transfer of a purely financial interest, such as overriding royalty interest or payment out of production, nor does it affect the relationship imposed by a lease between the lessee(s) and the United States.


*Transferee.* A person to whom an interest in a lease issued by the United States has been transferred.




