# § 1282.36   Evaluations, ratings, and Evaluation Guidance.

(a) *Evaluation of compliance.* In determining whether an Enterprise has complied with the duty to serve each underserved market, FHFA will annually evaluate and rate the Enterprise's duty to serve performance based on the Enterprise's implementation of its Underserved Markets Plan during the relevant evaluation year. FHFA's evaluation will be in accordance with separate, FHFA-prepared Evaluation Guidance as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) *Evaluation areas.* As provided in § 1282.32(f), an Enterprise must specify in its Plan the evaluation area under which each Plan objective will be evaluated. FHFA will evaluate an Enterprise's performance of each of its Plan objectives under one of the following four evaluation areas, as designated by the Enterprise in its Plan:


(1) *Outreach.* The extent of the Enterprise's outreach to qualified loan sellers and other market participants in each underserved market;


(2) *Loan product.* The Enterprise's development of loan products, more flexible underwriting guidelines, and other innovative approaches to providing financing in each underserved market;


(3) *Loan purchase.* The volume of loan purchases by the Enterprise in each underserved market relative to the market opportunities available to the Enterprise; and


(4) *Investments and grants.* The amount of the Enterprise's investments and grants in projects that assist in meeting the needs of each underserved market.


(c) *Evaluation process.* At the end of each evaluation year, FHFA will evaluate each Enterprise's performance under its Plan based on quantitative and qualitative assessments of the Enterprise's accomplishment of the objectives for the activities under each underserved market in its Plan. Following the quantitative and qualitative assessments, FHFA may provide extra credit for extra credit-eligible residential economic diversity activities in an underserved market in a Plan, and for other extra credit-eligible activities in an underserved market in a Plan as may be designated by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance.


(1) *Quantitative assessment.* FHFA will conduct a quantitative assessment which will evaluate the level of an Enterprise's accomplishment of each objective for each activity in an underserved market in its Plan, based on the level of accomplishment needed for the objectives in order to receive a passing rating for compliance with the Duty to Serve an underserved market in a Plan, as established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance. At the conclusion of the quantitative assessment for an underserved market in a Plan, FHFA will determine whether an Enterprise has passed or failed the required level of accomplishment.


(2) *Qualitative assessment.* FHFA will conduct a qualitative assessment which will evaluate the Enterprise's accomplishment of each objective for each activity in an underserved market in its Plan, based on the method and criteria established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance, such as how skillfully an objective was implemented, the impact of the objective, and such other criteria as FHFA may set forth in the Evaluation Guidance.


(3) *Extra credit-eligible activities.* FHFA may provide extra credit for extra credit-eligible residential economic diversity activities included in an underserved market in a Plan, and for other extra credit-eligible activities included in an underserved market in a Plan, where such other activities are designated by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance. FHFA will conduct its assessment of an Enterprise's accomplishment of activities that are eligible for extra credit based on the method and criteria established by FHFA in the Evaluation Guidance, such as how skillfully an objective was implemented, the impact of the objective, and such other criteria as FHFA may set forth in the Evaluation Guidance.


(4) *Ratings.*—(i) *Assignment of ratings.* Based on the quantitative, qualitative and extra credit assessments, FHFA will assign a rating of Exceeds, High Satisfactory, Low Satisfactory, Minimally Passing, or Fails to the Enterprise's performance for each underserved market in its Plan. A rating of Exceeds, High Satisfactory, Low Satisfactory, or Minimally Passing will constitute compliance by the Enterprise with the duty to serve that underserved market. A rating of Fails will constitute noncompliance by the Enterprise with the duty to serve that underserved market.


(ii) *Ongoing Assessment of Evaluation and Rating Process.* FHFA will make such determinations as appropriate based on evaluation of the program's parameters and operation, pursuant to the Evaluation Guidance, regarding implementation of the evaluation and rating process.


(d) *Evaluation Guidance.*—(1) *Three-year term.* FHFA will prepare Evaluation Guidance for use by both Enterprises for a three-year term.


(2) *Contents.* The Evaluation Guidance will include the information required under this subpart, as well as additional guidance on Enterprise Plans, how the quantitative and qualitative assessments will be conducted, the role of extra credit, how final ratings will be determined, and other matters as may be appropriate.


(3) *Timelines for Evaluation Guidance.*—(i) *For the first Plan.*—(A) FHFA will provide to the Enterprises the proposed Evaluation Guidance for the first Plan within 30 days after the posting of this subpart on FHFA's Web site. FHFA will post the proposed Evaluation Guidance on FHFA's Web site as soon as practicable after providing it to the Enterprises.


(B) The proposed Evaluation Guidance will be available for public input for a period of 120 days following its posting on FHFA's Web site.


(C) FHFA will provide the Evaluation Guidance to the Enterprises no later than the time FHFA provides comments to the Enterprises on their proposed Plans.


(ii) *For subsequent Plans.* FHFA will provide timelines for the Evaluation Guidance for subsequent Plans after the first Plan, including public input periods, 300 days before the termination date of the Plan in effect, or a later date if additional time is necessary.


(4) *Posting of Evaluation Guidance.* The final Evaluation Guidance will be posted on the Enterprises' and FHFA's respective Web sites as soon as practicable after the Evaluation Guidance is finalized.


(5) *Modification of Evaluation Guidance.* From time to time, FHFA may modify the Evaluation Guidance prior to or during the Evaluation Guidance's three-year term. FHFA may seek public input on proposed modifications to the Evaluation Guidance if FHFA determines that public input would assist its consideration of the proposed modifications. Modified Evaluation Guidance will be effective on January 1 of the year after the modified Evaluation Guidance is posted. FHFA will post the modified Evaluation Guidance on FHFA's Web site as soon as practicable after modified.




