# § 37.1501   Chief compliance officer.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this part, the term—


*Board of directors* means the board of directors of a swap execution facility, or for those swap execution facilities whose organizational structure does not include a board of directors, a body performing a function similar to a board of directors.


*Senior officer* means the chief executive officer or other equivalent officer of the swap execution facility.


(b) *Chief compliance officer*—(1) *Authority of chief compliance officer.* (i) The position of chief compliance officer shall carry with it the authority and resources to develop, in consultation with the board of directors or senior officer, the policies and procedures of the swap execution facility and enforce such policies and procedures to fulfill the duties set forth for chief compliance officers in the Act and Commission regulations.


(ii) The chief compliance officer shall have supervisory authority over all staff acting at the direction of the chief compliance officer.


(2) *Qualifications of chief compliance officer.* (i) The individual designated to serve as chief compliance officer shall have the background and skills appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the position.


(ii) No individual disqualified from registration pursuant to sections 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the Act may serve as a chief compliance officer.


(3) *Appointment and removal of chief compliance officer.* (i) Only the board of directors or the senior officer may appoint or remove the chief compliance officer.


(ii) The swap execution facility shall notify the Commission within two business days of the appointment or removal, whether interim or permanent, of a chief compliance officer.


(4) *Compensation of the chief compliance officer.* The board of directors or the senior officer shall approve the compensation of the chief compliance officer.


(5) *Annual meeting with the chief compliance officer.* The chief compliance officer shall meet with the board of directors or senior officer of the swap execution facility at least annually.


(6) *Information requested of the chief compliance officer.* The chief compliance officer shall provide any information regarding the self-regulatory program of the swap execution facility as requested by the board of directors or the senior officer.


(c) *Duties of chief compliance officer.* The duties of the chief compliance officer shall include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Overseeing and reviewing compliance of the swap execution facility with section 5h of the Act and any related rules adopted by the Commission;


(2) Taking reasonable steps, in consultation with the board of directors or the senior officer of the swap execution facility, to resolve any material conflicts of interest that may arise, including, but not limited to:


(i) Conflicts between business considerations and compliance requirements;


(ii) Conflicts between business considerations and the requirement that the swap execution facility provide fair, open, and impartial access as set forth in § 37.202; and;


(iii) Conflicts between a swap execution facility's management and members of the board of directors;


(3) Establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Act and the rules of the Commission;


(4) Taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Act and the rules of the Commission;


(5) Establishing procedures reasonably designed to handle, respond, remediate, retest, and resolve noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any means, including any compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, self-reported error, or validated complaint;


(6) Establishing and administering a compliance manual designed to promote compliance with the applicable laws, rules, and regulations and a written code of ethics for the swap execution facility designed to prevent ethical violations and to promote honesty and ethical conduct by personnel of the swap execution facility;


(7) Supervising the self-regulatory program of the swap execution facility with respect to trade practice surveillance; market surveillance; real time market monitoring; compliance with audit trail requirements; enforcement and disciplinary proceedings; audits, examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities (including taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with, if applicable, financial integrity, financial reporting, sales practice, recordkeeping, and other requirements); and


(8) Supervising the effectiveness and sufficiency of any regulatory services provided to the swap execution facility by a regulatory service provider in accordance with § 37.204.


(d) *Preparation of annual compliance report.* The chief compliance officer shall, not less than annually, prepare and sign an annual compliance report that covers the prior fiscal year. The report shall, at a minimum, contain:


(1) A description and self-assessment of the effectiveness of the written policies and procedures of the swap execution facility, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest policies, to reasonably ensure compliance with the Act and applicable Commission regulations;


(2) Any material changes made to compliance policies and procedures during the coverage period for the report and any areas of improvement or recommended changes to the compliance program;


(3) A description of the financial, managerial, and operational resources set aside for compliance with the Act and applicable Commission regulations;


(4) Any material non-compliance matters identified and an explanation of the corresponding action taken to resolve such non-compliance matters; and


(5) A certification by the chief compliance officer that, to the best of his or her knowledge and reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the annual compliance report is accurate and complete in all material respects.


(e) *Submission of annual compliance report and related matters*—(1) *Furnishing the annual compliance report prior to submission to the Commission.* Prior to submission to the Commission, the chief compliance officer shall provide the annual compliance report for review to the board of directors of the swap execution facility or, in the absence of a board of directors, to the senior officer of the swap execution facility. Members of the board of directors and the senior officer shall not require the chief compliance officer to make any changes to the report.


(2) *Submission of annual compliance report to the Commission.* The annual compliance report shall be submitted electronically to the Commission not later than 90 calendar days after the end of the swap execution facility's fiscal year. The swap execution facility shall concurrently file the annual compliance report with the fourth-quarter financial report pursuant to § 37.1306.


(3) *Amendments to annual compliance report.* (i) Promptly upon discovery of any material error or omission made in a previously filed annual compliance report, the chief compliance officer shall file an amendment with the Commission to correct the material error or omission. The chief compliance officer shall submit the amended annual compliance report to the board of directors, or in the absence of a board of directors, to the senior officer of the swap execution facility, pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(ii) An amendment shall contain the certification required under paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(4) *Request for extension.* A swap execution facility may request an extension of time to file its annual compliance report from the Commission. Reasonable and valid requests for extensions of the filing deadline may be granted at the discretion of the Commission.


(f) *Recordkeeping.* The swap execution facility shall maintain all records demonstrating compliance with the duties of the chief compliance officer and the preparation and submission of annual compliance reports consistent with §§ 37.1000 and 37.1001.


(g) *Delegation of authority.* The Commission hereby delegates, until it orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or such other employee or employees as the Director may designate from time to time, the authority to grant or deny a request for an extension of time for a swap execution facility to file its annual compliance report under paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The Director may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter that has been delegated in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph prohibits the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated in this paragraph.





---

[N] [86 FR 9248, Feb. 11, 2021]






