# § 2570.39   Opportunities to submit additional information.

(a) An applicant may notify the Department of its intent to submit additional information supporting an exemption application by telephone, by letter sent to the address furnished in the applicant's tentative denial letter, or electronically to the email address provided in the applicant's tentative denial letter. At the same time, the applicant should indicate generally the type of information that will be submitted.


(b) The additional information an applicant intends to provide in support of the application must be in writing and received by the Department within 40 days from the date the Department issues the tentative denial letter unless the Department extends the time period at its sole discretion. All such information must be accompanied by a certification that all information provided to the Department is true and correct, and the certification must be dated and signed by a person qualified under § 2570.34(b)(6) to sign such a declaration. The information may be submitted either electronically or by mail to the address specified in the letter.


(c) If, for reasons beyond its control, an applicant is unable to submit all the additional information they intend to provide in support of their application within the period described in paragraph (b) of this section, they may request an extension of time to furnish the information. Such requests must be made before the expiration of the time period described in paragraph (b), and the request will be granted, in the Department's sole discretion, only in unusual circumstances and for a limited period as determined by the Department. The request may be made by telephone, mail, or electronically.


(d) The Department will issue, without further notice, either by mail or electronically, a final denial letter denying the requested exemption pursuant to § 2570.41 if—


(1) The Department has not received the additional information that the applicant stated their intention to submit within the period described in paragraph (b) of this section, or within any additional period granted pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; and


(2) The applicant did not request a conference pursuant to § 2570.38(b).






