# ยง 1631.1   Definitions.

(a) *Board* means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.


(b) *Agency* means agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(e).


(c) *Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 8401(13) and as further described in 5 U.S.C. 8474.


(d) *FOIA* means Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.


(e) *FOIA Officer* means the Board's General Counsel or his or her designee.


(f) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.


(g) *Working days* or *workdays* means those days when the Board is open for the conduct of Government business, and does not include Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


(h) *Requester* means a person making a FOIA request.


(i) *Submitter* means any person or entity which provides confidential commercial information to the Board. The term includes, but is not limited to, corporations, state governments, and foreign governments.


(j) *FOIA Public Liaison* means the Board official who is responsible for assisting in reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in the resolution of disputes.


(k) *Requestor category* means one of the three categories that agencies place requesters in for the purpose of determining whether a requester will be charged fees for search, review, and/or duplication, including:


(1) Commercial use requestors,


(2) Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and


(3) All other requestors.


(l) *Fee waiver* means the waiver or reduction of processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied including that the information is in the public interest and is not requested for a commercial interest.



---

[N] [55 FR 41052, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 79 FR 68094, Nov. 14, 2014; 82 FR 24826, May 31, 2017]




