# ยง 90.3   Part 90 option; notice of eligibility; exercise of option.

The following is required until April 14, 2025:


(a) Any miner employed at a coal mine who, in the judgment of the Secretary of HHS, has evidence of the development of pneumoconiosis based on a chest X-ray, read and classified in the manner prescribed by the Secretary of HHS, or based on other medical examinations shall be afforded the option to work in an area of a mine where the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which that miner is exposed is continuously maintained at or below the applicable standard. Each of these miners shall be notified in writing of eligibility to exercise the option.


(b) Any miner who is a section 203(b) miner on January 31, 1981, shall be a part 90 miner on February 1, 1981, entitled to full rights under this part to retention of pay rate, future actual wage increases, and future work assignment, shift and respirable dust protection.


(c) Any part 90 miner who is transferred to a position at the same or another coal mine shall remain a part 90 miner entitled to full rights under this part at the new work assignment.


(d) The option to work in a low dust area of the mine may be exercised for the first time by any miner employed at a coal mine who was eligible for the option under the old section 203(b) program (*http://www.msha.gov/REGSTECHAMEND.htm*), or is eligible for the option under this part by sending a written request to the Chief, Division of Health, Coal Mine Safety and Health, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452.


(e) The option to work in a low dust area of the mine may be re-exercised by any miner employed at a coal mine who exercised the option under the old section 203(b) program (*http://www.msha.gov/REGSTECHAMEND.htm*) or exercised the option under this part by sending a written request to the Chief, Division of Health, Coal Mine Safety and Health, MSHA, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452. The request should include the name and address of the mine and operator where the miner is employed.


(f) No operator shall require from a miner a copy of the medical information received from the Secretary or Secretary of HHS.



---

[N] [79 FR 24988, May 1, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 52993, Sept. 2, 2015; 89 FR 28482, Apr. 18, 2024]


