# § 192.635   Notification of potential rupture.

(a) As used in this part, a “notification of potential rupture” refers to the notification of, or observation by, an operator (e.g., by or to its controller(s) in a control room, field personnel, nearby pipeline or utility personnel, the public, local responders, or public authorities) of one or more of the below indicia of a potential unintentional or uncontrolled release of a large volume of gas from a pipeline:


(1) An unanticipated or unexplained pressure loss outside of the pipeline's normal operating pressures, as defined in the operator's written procedures. The operator must establish in its written procedures that an unanticipated or unplanned pressure loss is outside of the pipeline's normal operating pressures when there is a pressure loss greater than 10 percent occurring within a time interval of 15 minutes or less, unless the operator has documented in its written procedures the operational need for a greater pressure-change threshold due to pipeline flow dynamics (including changes in operating pressure, flow rate, or volume), that are caused by fluctuations in gas demand, gas receipts, or gas deliveries; or


(2) An unanticipated or unexplained flow rate change, pressure change, equipment function, or other pipeline instrumentation indication at the upstream or downstream station that may be representative of an event meeting paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or


(3) Any unanticipated or unexplained rapid release of a large volume of gas, a fire, or an explosion in the immediate vicinity of the pipeline.


(b) A notification of potential rupture occurs when an operator first receives notice of or observes an event specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) This section does not apply to any gas gathering line.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-130, 87 FR 20985, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 192-136, 89 FR 53880, June 28, 2024]






