# § 512.414   Patient population.

(a) *General.* (1) CMS attributes kidney transplant waitlist patients and kidney transplant patients to IOTA participants based on the attribution criteria as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, for all of the following purposes:


(i) Sharing Medicare claims data for attributed beneficiaries with IOTA participants.


(ii) Assessing each IOTA participant's performance across the achievement domain, efficiency domain, and quality domain.


(iii) Determining performance-based payments paid to or by IOTA participants.


(2) Once a kidney transplant waitlist patient or kidney transplant patient is attributed to an IOTA participant, that respective patient may not opt out of attribution to an IOTA participant and remains attributed to the IOTA participant for the duration of the model performance period, unless the attributed patient meets the de-attribution criteria under paragraph (b)(3) of this section during annual attribution reconciliation as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(b) *Patient attribution and de-attribution criteria*—(1) *IOTA waitlist patient attribution.* (i) At the time CMS conducts attribution, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, if a kidney transplant waitlist patient meets the definition of an IOTA waitlist patient, as defined at § 512.402, CMS attributes the kidney transplant waitlist patient as an IOTA waitlist patient to an IOTA participant.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *IOTA transplant patient attribution.* (i) At the time CMS conducts attribution, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, CMS attributes a kidney transplant patient as an IOTA transplant patient if the kidney transplant patient meets all of the following:


(A) The definition of an IOTA transplant patient, as defined at § 512.402.


(B) Is 18 years of age or older at the time of the patient's kidney transplant.


(C) Is alive.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) *De-attribution from an IOTA participant.* During annual attribution reconciliation, CMS uses the fourth quarter attribution list for each IOTA participant and de-attributes any attributed patients who, as of the last day of the PY being reconciled, meet any of the following de-attribution criteria:


(A) An IOTA waitlist patient that was removed from and remains unregistered on an IOTA participant's kidney transplant waitlist.


(B) An IOTA waitlist patient that has died at any point during the PY.


(C) An IOTA transplant patient that has died at any point during the PY.


(D) An IOTA transplant patient who experiences transplant failure at any point during the model performance period and has not rejoined an IOTA participant's kidney transplant waitlist or received another transplant from an IOTA participant before the last day of the respective PY.


(c) *Attribution methodology.* CMS employs the following methodology to attribute kidney waitlist patients and kidney transplant patients to an IOTA participant after identifying all kidney waitlist patients and kidney transplant patients that meet the attribution criteria as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section:


(1)(i) *Initial attribution.* Prior to the model start date, CMS conducts initial attribution, as defined at § 512.402.


(ii) *Initial attribution list.* (A) CMS provides the initial attribution list to the IOTA participant no later than 15 days prior to the start of PY 1 and in a form and manner as determined by CMS.


(B) The initial attribution list includes a list of IOTA waitlist patients identified through initial attribution, effective on the model start date.


(2)(i) *Quarterly attribution.* CMS conducts attribution, as defined at § 512.402, on a quarterly basis after the model start date, and updates the quarterly attribution list, as defined at § 512.402, for each IOTA participant, except in the event of termination in accordance with § 512.466.


(ii) *Quarterly attribution list.* CMS provides the quarterly attribution list, as defined at § 512.402, to the IOTA participant no later than 15 days prior to the start of each quarter and in a form and manner determined by CMS. The quarterly attribution list includes, at minimum, all of the following:


(A) A list of all newly attributed patients, whose attribution to the IOTA participant becomes effective on the first day of the relevant upcoming quarter.


(B) A list of all attributed patients who continue to be attributed to the IOTA participant from the previous quarter.


(C) The dates in which attribution began, changed, or ended, where applicable for attributed patients.


(D) The attributed patient's data sharing preferences under § 512.440(b).


(3)(i) *Annual attribution reconciliation.* After the fourth quarter of each PY, CMS conducts annual attribution reconciliation as defined at § 512.402.


(ii) *Annual attribution reconciliation list.* CMS provides the annual reconciliation list to the IOTA participant before the second quarter of the following PY. Using the fourth quarter quarterly attribution list for each IOTA participant, the annual attribution reconciliation list identifies, at a minimum, all of the following, where applicable:


(A) A list of all attributed patients who remain attributed to the IOTA participant because they satisfied the attribution criteria under §§ 512.414(b)(1) and (2) for the respective PY.


(B) The dates in which attribution began, changed, or ended, where applicable.


(C) A list of all attributed patients who are de-attributed because they failed to satisfy the attribution criteria under § 512.414(b)(1) and (2).


(D) A list of all attributed patients who are de-attributed because they satisfy a de-attribution criterion under § 512.414(b)(3).


(E) The dates on which each attributed patient satisfied a de-attribution criterion as specified under § 512.414(b)(3).


(F) A list of the de-attribution criterion each attributed patient satisfied under § 512.414(b)(3).






