# ยง 762.7   Producing and inspecting records.

(a) *Persons located in the United States.* Persons located in the United States may be asked to produce books, records, and other information that are required to be kept by any provision of the EAR, or any license, order, or authorization issued thereunder and to make them available for inspection and copying by any authorized official of the BIS, or any other official of the United States designated by BIS, without any charge or expense to such official. OEE and the Office of Antiboycott Compliance encourage voluntary cooperation with such requests. When voluntary cooperation is not forthcoming, OEE and the Office of Antiboycott Compliance are authorized to issue subpoenas requiring persons to appear and testify, or to produce books, records, and other writings. In instances where a person does not comply with a subpoena, the Department of Commerce may petition a district court to have the subpoena enforced.


(b) *Persons located outside of the United States.* Persons located outside of the United States that are required to keep books, records, and other information by any provision of the EAR or by any license, order, or authorization issued thereunder shall produce all books, records, and other information required to be kept, or reproductions thereof, and make them available for inspection and copying upon request by an authorized official of BIS without any charge or expense to such official. BIS may designate any other official of the United States to exercise the authority of BIS under this subsection.



---

[N] [85 FR 73416, Nov. 18, 2020]




