# § 438.100   Enrollee rights.

(a)* General rule.* The State must ensure that:


(1) Each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM and PCCM entity has written policies regarding the enrollee rights specified in this section; and


(2) Each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM and PCCM entity complies with any applicable Federal and State laws that pertain to enrollee rights, and ensures that its employees and contracted providers observe and protect those rights.


(b) *Specific rights*—(1) *Basic requirement.* The State must ensure that each managed care enrollee is guaranteed the rights as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.


(2) An enrollee of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity has the following rights: The right to—


(i) Receive information in accordance with § 438.10.


(ii) Be treated with respect and with due consideration for his or her dignity and privacy.


(iii) Receive information on available treatment options and alternatives, presented in a manner appropriate to the enrollee's condition and ability to understand. (The information requirements for services that are not covered under the contract because of moral or religious objections are set forth in § 438.10(g)(2)(ii)(A) and (B).)


(iv) Participate in decisions regarding his or her health care, including the right to refuse treatment.


(v) Be free from any form of restraint or seclusion used as a means of coercion, discipline, convenience or retaliation, as specified in other Federal regulations on the use of restraints and seclusion.


(vi) If the privacy rule, as set forth in 45 CFR parts 160 and 164 subparts A and E, applies, request and receive a copy of his or her medical records, and request that they be amended or corrected, as specified in 45 CFR 164.524 and 164.526.


(3) An enrollee of an MCO, PIHP, or PAHP (consistent with the scope of the PAHP's contracted services) has the right to be furnished health care services in accordance with §§ 438.206 through 438.210.


(c) *Free exercise of rights.* The State must ensure that each enrollee is free to exercise his or her rights, and that the exercise of those rights does not adversely affect the way the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity and its network providers or the State agency treat the enrollee.


(d) *Compliance with other Federal and State laws.* The State must ensure that each MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM and PCCM entity complies with any other applicable Federal and State laws (including: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as implemented by regulations at 45 CFR part 80; the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 as implemented by regulations at 45 CFR part 91; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (regarding education programs and activities); Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act; and section 1557 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.




