# ยง 1.853-2   Effect of election.

(a) *Regulated investment company.* A regulated investment company making a valid election with respect to a taxable year under the provisions of section 853(a) is, for such year, denied both the deduction for foreign taxes provided by section 164(a) and the credit for foreign taxes provided by section 901 with respect to all income, war-profits, and excess profits taxes (described in section 901(b)(1)) which it has paid to any foreign country or possession of the United States. See section 853(b)(1)(A). However, under section 853(b)(1)(B), the regulated investment company is permitted to add the amount of such foreign taxes paid to its dividends paid deduction for that taxable year. See paragraph (a) of ยง 1.852-1.


(b) *Shareholder.* Under section 853(b)(2), a shareholder of an investment company, which has made the election under section 853, is, in effect, placed in the same position as a person directly owning stock in foreign corporations, in that he must include in his gross income (in addition to taxable dividends actually received) his proportionate share of such foreign taxes paid and must treat such amount as foreign taxes paid by him for the purposes of the deduction under section 164(a) and the credit under section 901. For such purposes he must treat as gross income from a foreign country or possession of the United States (1) his proportionate share of the taxes paid by the regulated investment company to such foreign country or possession and (2) the portion of any dividend paid by the investment company which represents income derived from such sources.


(c) *Dividends paid after the close of the taxable year.* For additional rules applicable to certain distributions made after the close of the taxable year which may be designated as income received from sources within and taxes paid to foreign countries or possessions of the United States, see section 855(d) and paragraph (f) of ยง 1.855-1.


(d) *Example.* This section is illustrated by the following example:


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* Paragraph (d) of this section is applicable for RIC taxable years ending on or after December 31, 2007. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, for a taxable year that ends on or after December 31, 2007, and begins before August 24, 2007, a taxpayer may rely on this section as it was in effect on August 23, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 9357, 72 FR 48553, Aug. 24, 2007]




