# § 202.117   Rule 17: Petition to reopen a hearing; to rehear or reargue a proceeding; to reconsider an order; or to set aside a default order.

(a) *Filing of petition*—(1) *To reopen a hearing.* Any party may file a petition to reopen a hearing to take further evidence, at any time prior to the issuance of the final order, or prior to a tentative order becoming final. Such a petition must state the nature and purpose of the evidence to be offered, show that it is not merely cumulative, and state a good reason why it was not offered at the hearing if oral, or filed in the hearing if written. 


(2) *To rehear or reargue a proceeding or reconsider an order.* Any party may file a petition to rehear or reargue a proceeding or reconsider an order of the judicial officer, at any time within 20 days after service on such party of such order. Such a petition must specify the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided, and the basis for the petitioner's claim that such matters were erroneously decided. 


(3) *To set aside a default order.* Any respondent against whom an order is issued by the judicial officer, upon failure to file an answer as required, may file a petition to set aside such order, at any time within 20 days after service on such respondent of such order. Such a petition must state a good reason why an answer was not filed as required. 


(b) *Brief or memorandum of law.* If such a petitioner wishes to file a brief or memorandum of law in support of such a petition, it must be filed with such petition. 


(c) *Procedure.* A presiding officer shall be assigned upon the filing of any such petition, or upon notice to the hearing clerk (which may be written or oral, or by telephone) that any party intends to file any such petition. The party filing any such petition shall be referred to as the complainant or respondent, depending on the original designation of such party in the proceeding; such party shall have the burden of establishing that such petition should be granted. If a petition to reopen is timely filed, the order shall not be issued pending decision whether to grant or deny the petition. If a petition to rehear or reargue or reconsider, or to set aside a default order, is timely filed, operation of the order shall be stayed automatically pending decision whether to grant or deny it; if such a petition is not timely filed, operation of the order shall not be stayed unless the Judicial Officer shall determine otherwise. 


(d) *Service; answer.* No such petition shall be granted unless it, with the brief or memorandum of law in support of it, if any, is first served on each party to the proceeding other than the one filing it. Each such other party, within 20 days after such service on such party, may file an answer to such petition. If any such party wishes to file a brief or memorandum of law in support of such an answer, it must be filed with such answer. Any such answer, with the brief or memorandum of law in support of it, if any, shall be served on each party to the proceeding other than the one filing it. Any such petition may be denied without such service. 


(e) *Submission for decision; service of order.* The presiding officer shall prepare a recommendation with respect to the petition, and submit it to the judicial officer for decision. Such a recommendation shall be prepared in the form of a final order for signature by the judicial officer. It shall not be served on the parties unless and until it is signed by the judicial officer. The order of the judicial officer shall be served on the parties. 


(f) *Practice upon decision.* If the judicial officer decides to reopen a hearing, or to rehear or permit reargument of a proceeding, or to set aside a default order, a presiding officer shall be assigned and the rules of practice shall be followed thereafter as applicable. 




