# ยง 362.102   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Act* means the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202 *et seq.*).


*Applicable Entries* means the entries of Southeast Asian-Completed Cells and Modules that are entered into the United States, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption before the Date of Termination and, for entries that enter after November 15, 2022, are used in the United States by the Utilization Expiration Date.


*CBP* means U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the United States Department of Homeland Security.


*Certain Solar Orders* means Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled Into Modules from the People's Republic of China: Amended Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, and Antidumping Duty Order; Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled Into Modules, from the People's Republic of China: Countervailing Duty Order; and Certain Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Products from Taiwan: Antidumping Duty Order.


*Date of Termination* means June 6, 2024, or the date the emergency described in Presidential Proclamation 10414 has been terminated, whichever occurs first.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce or a designee.


*Solar Circumvention Inquiries* means some or all of the inquiries at issue in Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Assembled Into Modules, From the People's Republic of China: Initiation of Circumvention Inquiry on the Antidumping Duty and Countervailing Duty Orders.


*Southeast Asian-Completed Cells and Modules* means crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, whether or not assembled into modules (solar cells and modules), which are completed in the Kingdom of Cambodia, Malaysia, the Kingdom of Thailand, or the Socialist Republic of Vietnam using parts and components manufactured in the People's Republic of China, and subsequently exported from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand or Vietnam to the United States. These are cells and modules subject to the Solar Circumvention Inquiries. Southeast Asian-Completed Cells and Modules does not mean solar cells and modules that, on June 6, 2022, the date Proclamation 10414 was signed, were already subject to Certain Solar Orders.


*Utilization* and *utilized* means the Southeast Asian-Completed Cells and Modules will be used or installed in the United States. Merchandise which remains in inventory or a warehouse in the United States, is resold to another party, is subsequently exported, or is destroyed after importation is not considered utilized for purposes of these provisions.


*Utilization Expiration Date* means the date 180 days after the Date of Termination.






