# § 404.1212   Police officers and firefighters.

(a) *General.* For Social Security coverage purposes under section 218 of the Act, a police officer's or firefighter's position is any position so classified under State statutes or court decisions. Generally, these positions are in the organized police and fire departments of incorporated cities, towns, and villages. In most States, a police officer is a member of the “police” which is an organized civil force for maintaining order, preventing and detecting crimes, and enforcing laws. The terms “police officer” and “firefighter” do not include services in positions which, although connected with police and firefighting functions, are not police officer or firefighter positions.


(b) *Providing coverage.* A State may provide coverage of:


(1) Police officers' and firefighters' positions not under a retirement system as part of an absolute coverage group; or


(2) Police officers' or firefighters' positions, or both, as part of a retirement system coverage group.


(c) *Police officers and firefighters in positions under a retirement system.* All States and interstate instrumentalities may provide coverage for employees in police officers' or firefighters' positions, or both, which are under a retirement system by following the majority vote referendum procedures in § 404.1206(d). In addition, all interstate instrumentalities and the States listed in § 404.1207 may use the desire for coverage procedures described in § 404.1207.



---

[N] [61 FR 38368, July 24, 1996]




