# § 1.7874-9   Disregard of certain stock in third-country transactions.

(a) *Scope.* This section identifies certain stock of a foreign acquiring corporation that is disregarded in determining the ownership fraction. Paragraph (b) of this section provides a rule that, in a third-country transaction, excludes from the denominator of the ownership fraction stock in the foreign acquiring corporation held by former shareholders of an acquired foreign corporation by reason of holding certain stock in that foreign corporation. Paragraph (c) of this section defines a third-country transaction, and paragraph (d) of this section provides other definitions. Paragraph (e) of this section provides operating rules. Paragraph (f) of this section provides an example illustrating the application of the rules of this section. Paragraph (g) of this section provides the dates of applicability. See § 1.7874-1(d)(1) for rules addressing the interaction of this section with the expanded affiliated group rules of section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1.


(b) *Exclusion of certain stock of a foreign acquiring corporation from the ownership fraction.* When a domestic entity acquisition is a third-country transaction, stock of the foreign acquiring corporation held by reason of holding stock in the acquired foreign corporation (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4) of this section) is, to the extent the stock otherwise would be included in the denominator of the ownership fraction, excluded from the denominator of the ownership fraction pursuant to this paragraph.


(c) *Third-country transaction.* A domestic entity acquisition is a third-country transaction if the following requirements are satisfied:


(1) The foreign acquiring corporation completes a covered foreign acquisition pursuant to a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the domestic entity acquisition.


(2) After the covered foreign acquisition and all related transactions are complete, the foreign acquiring corporation is not a tax resident of the foreign country in which the acquired foreign corporation was a tax resident before the covered foreign acquisition and all related transactions.


(3) The ownership percentage described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), determined without regard to the application of paragraph (b) of this section, is at least 60.


(d) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions provided in § 1.7874-12, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) A *foreign acquisition* means a transaction in which a foreign acquiring corporation directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by an acquired foreign corporation (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section).


(2) An *acquired foreign corporation* means a foreign corporation whose properties are acquired in a foreign acquisition.


(3) *Foreign ownership percentage* means, with respect to a foreign acquisition, the percentage of stock (by vote or value) of the foreign acquiring corporation held by reason of holding stock in the acquired foreign corporation (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3) of this section).


(4) *Covered foreign acquisition*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, a covered foreign acquisition means a foreign acquisition in which, after the acquisition and all related transactions are complete, the foreign ownership percentage is at least 60.


(ii) *Substantial business activities exception.* A foreign acquisition is not a covered foreign acquisition if, on the completion date, the following requirements are satisfied:


(A) The foreign acquiring corporation is a tax resident of a foreign country.


(B) The expanded affiliated group has substantial business activities in the country in which the foreign acquiring corporation is a tax resident when compared to the total business activities of the expanded affiliated group. For this purpose, the principles of § 1.7874-3 apply and the determination of whether there are substantial business activities is made without regard to the domestic entity acquisition.


(iii) *No income tax exception.* A foreign acquisition is not a covered foreign acquisition if—


(A) Before the acquisition and all related transactions, the acquired foreign corporation was created or organized in, or under the law of, a foreign country that does not impose corporate income tax and was not a tax resident of any other foreign country; and


(B) After the acquisition and all related transactions are complete, the foreign acquiring corporation is created or organized in, or under the law of, a foreign country that does not impose corporate income tax and is not a tax resident of any other foreign country.


(5) A *tax resident* of a foreign country has the meaning set forth in § 1.7874-3(d)(11).


(e) *Operating rules.* The following rules apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Acquisition of multiple foreign corporations that are tax residents of the same foreign country.* When multiple foreign acquisitions occur pursuant to the same plan (or a series of related transactions) and two or more of the acquired foreign corporations were tax residents of the same foreign country before the foreign acquisitions and all related transactions, then those foreign acquisitions are treated as a single foreign acquisition and those acquired foreign corporations are treated as a single acquired foreign corporation for purposes of this section.


(2) *Acquisition of properties of an acquired foreign corporation.* For purposes of determining whether a foreign acquisition occurs, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i) and § 1.7874-2(c) and (d) (regarding acquisitions of properties of a domestic entity and acquisitions by multiple foreign corporations) apply with the following modifications:


(i) The principles of § 1.7874-2(c)(1) (providing rules for determining whether there is an indirect acquisition of properties of a domestic entity), including § 1.7874-2(b)(5) (providing rules for determining the proportionate amount of properties indirectly acquired), apply by substituting the term “foreign” for “domestic” wherever it appears.


(ii) The principles of § 1.7874-2(c)(2) (regarding acquisitions of stock of a foreign corporation that owns a domestic entity) apply by substituting the term “domestic” for “foreign” wherever it appears.


(3) *Computation of foreign ownership percentage.* For purposes of determining a foreign ownership percentage, the principles of all rules applicable to calculating an ownership percentage apply (including §§ 1.7874-2, 1.7874-4, 1.7874-5, 1.7874-7, and section 7874(c)(4)) with the following modifications:


(i) Stock of a foreign acquiring corporation described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) is not taken into account.


(ii) The principles of this section, section 7874(c)(2)(A), and §§ 1.7874-1, 1.7874-6, 1.7874-8, and 1.7874-10 do not apply.


(iii) The principles of § 1.7874-7 apply by, in addition to the exclusions listed in § 1.7874-7(e)(2)(i) through (iii), also excluding from the definition of foreign group property any property held directly or indirectly by the acquired foreign corporation immediately before the foreign acquisition and directly or indirectly acquired in the foreign acquisition.


(4) *Stock held by reason of holding stock in an acquired foreign corporation.* For purposes of determining stock of a foreign acquiring corporation held by reason of holding stock in an acquired foreign corporation, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) and §§ 1.7874-2(f) and 1.7874-5 apply.


(5) *Change in the tax residency of a foreign corporation.* For purposes of this section, a change in a country in which a foreign corporation is a tax resident is treated as a transaction. Further, for purposes of this section, if a foreign acquiring corporation changes the country in which it is a tax resident in a manner that would not otherwise be considered to result in a foreign acquisition (for example, by changing where it is managed and controlled), then the foreign acquiring corporation is treated as—


(i) Both an acquired foreign corporation and a foreign acquiring corporation; and


(ii) Directly or indirectly acquiring all of the properties held directly or indirectly by the acquired foreign corporation solely in exchange for stock of the foreign acquiring corporation.


(f) *Example.* The following example illustrates the rules of this section.


(g) *Applicability dates.* This section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after July 12, 2018. For domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018, see § 1.7874-9T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017. However, to the extent this section differs from § 1.7874-9T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017, taxpayers may elect to consistently apply the differences to domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32555, July 12, 2018]




