# ยง 1489.13   Application process.

(a) *General application requirements.* CCC will periodically issue a NOFO through the *Grants.gov* website announcing that it is accepting applications for participation in the RAPP. Applications shall be submitted in accordance with the terms and requirements specified in the NOFO and in this part. Applicants may apply to conduct a generic promotion program and/or a brand promotion program that provides RAPP funds to brand participants for brand promotion, as well as to conduct other market promotion activities, including activities to address existing or potential non-tariff trade barriers. An applicant that is a U.S. agricultural cooperative may also apply for funds to conduct its own brand promotion program.


(b) *Requests for evaluation information.* CCC may request any information that it deems necessary to evaluate an application, including, but not limited to, performance measurement information. Applicants shall provide any requested information in the manner and according to the timeframe specified by CCC.


(c) *Special rules governing demonstration projects funded with CCC resources.* CCC will consider proposals for demonstration projects, provided:


(1) No more than one such demonstration project per constraint is undertaken within a market;


(2) The constraint to be addressed in the target market is a lack of technical knowledge or expertise;


(3) The demonstration project is a practical and cost-effective method of overcoming the constraint; and


(4) A third party must participate in such project through a written agreement with the RAPP Participant.


(d) *Universal identifier and System for Award Management (SAM).* In accordance with 2 CFR part 25, each entity that applies to the RAPP program and does not qualify for an exemption under 2 CFR 25.110 must:


(1) Be registered in SAM prior to submitting an application or plan;


(2) Maintain an active SAM registration with current information at all times during which it has an active Federal award or an application or plan under consideration by CCC; and


(3) Provide its unique identifier in each application or plan it submits to CCC.


(e) *Reporting subaward and executive compensation information.* In accordance with 2 CFR part 170, each entity that applies to the RAPP program and does not qualify for an exception under 2 CFR 170.110(b) must ensure it has the necessary processes and systems in place to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of 2 CFR part 170 should it receive RAPP funding.






