# ยง 416.1207   Resources determinations.

(a) *General.* Resources determinations are made as of the first moment of the month. A resource determination is based on what assets an individual has, what their values are, and whether or not they are excluded as of the first moment of the month.


(b) *Increase in value of resources.* If, during a month, a resource increases in value or an individual acquires an additional resource or replaces an excluded resource with one that is not excluded, the increase in the value of the resources is counted as of the first moment of the next month


(c) *Decrease in value of resources.* If, during a month, a resource decreases in value or an individual spends a resource or replaces a resource that is not excluded with one that is excluded, the decrease in the value of the resources is counted as of the first moment of the next month.


(d) *Treatment of items under income and resource counting rules.* Items received in cash or in kind during a month are evaluated first under the income counting rules and, if retained until the first moment of the following month, are subject to the rules for counting resources at that time.


(e) *Receipts from the sale, exchange, or replacement of a resource.* If an individual sells, exchanges or replaces a resource, the receipts are not income. They are still considered to be a resource. This rule includes resources that have never been counted as such because they were sold, exchanged or replaced in the month in which they were received. See ยง 416.1246 for the rule on resources disposed of for less than fair market value (including those disposed of during the month of receipt).



---

[N] [52 FR 4283, Feb. 11, 1987]




