# ยง 35.3   Notice requirements.

(a)(1) *Rate schedules or tariffs.* All rate schedules or tariffs or any part thereof shall be tendered for filing with the Commission and posted not less than sixty days nor more than one hundred-twenty days prior to the date on which the electric service is to commence and become effective under an initial rate schedule or tariff or the date on which the filing party proposes to make any change in electric service and/or rate, charge, classification, practice, rule, regulation, or contract effective as a change in rate schedule or tariff, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, or unless a different period of time is permitted by the Commission. Nothing herein shall be construed as in any way precluding a public utility from entering into agreements which, under this section, may not be filed at the time of execution thereof by reason of the aforementioned sixty to one hundred-twenty day prior filing requirements. The proposed effective date of any rate schedule or tariff filing having a filing date in accordance with ยง 35.2(d) may be deferred by the public utility making a filing requesting deferral prior to the rate schedule or tariff's acceptance by the Commission.


(2) *Service agreements.* Service agreements that are required to be filed and posted authorizing a customer to take electric service under the terms of a tariff, or any part thereof, shall be tendered for filing with the Commission and posted not more than 30 days after electric service has commenced or such other date as may be specified by the Commission.


(b) *Construction of facilities.* Rate schedules, tariffs or service agreements predicated on the construction of facilities may be tendered for filing and posted no more than one hundred-twenty days prior to the date set by the parties for the contract to go into effect. The Commission, upon request, may permit a rate schedule or service agreement or part thereof to be tendered for filing and posted more than one hundred-twenty days before it is to become effective. 



---

[N] [44 FR 16372, Mar. 19, 1979; 44 FR 20077, Apr. 4, 1979, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57531, Oct. 3, 2008] 




