# § 63.1255   Standards: Equipment leaks.

(a) *General equipment leak requirements.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, control devices, and closed-vent systems required by this section that are intended to operate in organic hazardous air pollutant service 300 hours or more during the calendar year within a source subject to the provisions of this subpart. 


(2) *Consistency with other regulations.* After the compliance date for a process, equipment subject to both this section and either of the following will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart:


(i) 40 CFR part 60.


(ii) 40 CFR part 61.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) The provisions in § 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(5) Lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this section. Utilities, and other nonprocess lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process.


(6) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(7) Equipment to which this section applies shall be identified such that it can be distinguished readily from equipment that is not subject to this section. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by designation of process boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification. If changes are made to the affected source subject to the leak detection requirements, equipment identification for each type of component shall be updated, if needed, within 90 calendar days or by the next Periodic Report following the end of the monitoring period for that component, whichever is later. 


(8) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of this section.


(9) Equipment that is in organic HAP service, but is in such service less than 300 hours per calendar year, is excluded from the requirements of this section if it is identified as required in paragraph (g)(9) of this section.


(10) When each leak is detected by visual, audible, or olfactory means, or by monitoring as described in § 63.180(b) or (c), the following requirements apply:


(i) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.


(ii) The identification on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, and no leak has been detected during the follow-up monitoring. 


(iii) The identification on equipment, except on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service, may be removed after it has been repaired. 


(11) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section, all terms in this subpart that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual) refer to the standard calendar periods unless specified otherwise in the section or paragraph that imposes the requirement. 


(i) If the initial compliance date does not coincide with the beginning of the standard calendar period, an owner or operator may elect to utilize a period beginning on the compliance date, or may elect to comply in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(11)(ii) or (iii) of this section. 


(ii) Time periods specified in this subpart for completion of required tasks may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part. For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period. 


(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(i) or (ii) of this section, where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date does not coincide with the beginning of the calendar period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraph (a)(11)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate. 


(A) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the initial compliance date occurs if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or


(B) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance date occurs. 


(iv) In all instances where a provision of this subpart requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during each period, provided the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period. 


(12) In all cases where the provisions of this subpart require an owner or operator to repair leaks by a specified time after the leak is detected, it is a violation of this section to fail to take action to repair the leaks within the specified time. If action is taken to repair the leaks within the specified time, failure of that action to successfully repair the leak is not a violation of this section. However, if the repairs are unsuccessful, a leak is detected and the owner or operator shall take further action as required by applicable provisions of this section. 


(b) *References.* (1) The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section. The term “process unit” as used in subpart H of this part shall be considered to be defined the same as “group of processes” for sources subject to this subpart GGG. The term “fuel gas system,” as used in subpart H of this part, shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart GGG. 


(2) Sections 63.160, 63.161, 63.162, 63.163, 63.167, 63.168, 63.170, 63.173, 63.175, 63.176, 63.181, and 63.182 shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart GGG. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section. 


(i) Sections 63.160 and 63.162 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section; 


(ii) Section 63.161 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1251; 


(iii) Sections 63.163 and 63.173 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section; 


(iv) Section 63.167 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (d) of this section; 


(v) Section 63.168 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section; 


(vi) Section 63.170 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1254; 


(vii) Section 63.181 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section; and


(viii) Section 63.182 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (h) of this section. 


(3) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.164, 63.165, 63.166, 63.169, 63.177, and 63.179 in their entirety, except that when these sections reference other sections of subpart H of this part, the references shall mean the sections specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section. Section 63.164 applies to compressors. Section 63.165 applies to pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service. Section 63.166 applies to sampling connection systems. Section 63.169 applies to pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; instrumentation systems; and pressure relief devices in liquid service. Section 63.177 applies to general alternative means of emission limitation. Section 63.179 applies to alternative means of emission limitation for enclosed-vented process units. 


(4) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.171, 63.172, 63.174, 63.178, and 63.180, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section. 


(i) Section 63.171 shall apply, except § 63.171(a) shall not apply. Instead, delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if one of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (B) exists: 


(A) The repair is technically infeasible without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown. 


(B) The owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger if attempting to repair without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown. 


(ii) Section 63.172 shall apply for closed-vent systems used to comply with this section, and for control devices used to comply with this section only, except: 


(A) Section 63.172(k) and (l) shall not apply. The owner or operator shall instead comply with paragraph (f) of this section. 


(B) Owners or operators may, instead of complying with the provisions of § 63.172(f), design a closed-vent system to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gage or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the associated control device is operating. 


(C) The requirements apply at all times, except as specified in § 63.1250(g). The owner or operator may not comply with the planned routine maintenance provisions in § 63.1252(h).


(iii) Section 63.174 shall apply except: 


(A) Section 63.174(f), (g), and (h) shall not apply. Instead of § 63.174(f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (f) of this section. Section 63.174(b)(3) shall not apply. Instead of § 63.174(b)(3), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) through (F) of this section. 


(B) If the percent leaking connectors in a group of processes was greater than or equal to 0.5 percent during the initial monitoring period, monitoring shall be performed once per year until the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent. 


(C) If the percent leaking connectors in the group of processes was less than 0.5 percent, but equal to or greater than 0.25 percent, during the initial or last required monitoring period, the owner or operator may elect to monitor once every 4 years. An owner or operator may comply with the requirements of this paragraph by monitoring at least 40 percent of the connectors in the first 2 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 2 years. The percent leaking connectors will be calculated for the total of all required monitoring performed during the 4-year period. 


(D) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, if leaking connectors comprise at least 0.5 percent but less than 1.0 percent of the connectors during the last monitoring period, the owner or operator shall monitor at least once every 2 years for the next monitoring period. At the end of that 2-year monitoring period, if the percent leaking connectors is greater than or equal to 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor once per year until the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent. If, at the end of a monitoring period, the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) or (F) of this section, as appropriate.


(E) If an owner or operator determines that 1 percent or greater of the connectors in a group of processes are leaking, the owner or operator shall monitor the connectors once per year. The owner or operator may elect to use the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C), (D), or (F) of this section, as appropriate, after a monitoring period in which less than 1 percent of the connectors are determined to be leaking. 


(F) The owner or operator may elect to perform monitoring once every 8 years if the percent leaking connectors in the group of processes was less than 0.25 percent during the initial or last required monitoring period. An owner or operator shall monitor at least 50 percent of the connectors in the first 4 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 4 years. If the percent leaking connectors in the first 4 years is equal to or greater than 0.35 percent, the monitoring program shall revert at that time to the appropriate monitoring frequency specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C), (D), or (E) of this section. 


(iv) Section 63.178 shall apply except: 


(A) Section 63.178(b), requirements for pressure testing, may be applied to all processes (not just batch processes) and to supply lines between storage and processing areas. 


(B) For pumps, the phrase “at the frequencies specified in Table 1 of this subpart” in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii) shall mean “quarterly” for the purposes of this subpart. 


(v) Section 63.180 shall apply except § 63.180(b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) shall not apply. Instead, calibration gases shall be a mixture of methane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 parts per million methane for agitators; 2,000 parts per million for pumps; and 500 parts per million for all other equipment, except as provided in § 63.180(b)(4)(iii). 


(vi) When §§ 63.171, 63.172, 63.174, 63.178, and 63.180 reference other sections in subpart H of this part, the references shall mean those sections specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(4)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable. 


(c) *Standards for pumps in light liquid service and agitators in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to each pump that is in light organic HAP liquid service, and to each agitator in organic HAP gas/vapor service or in light organic HAP liquid service.


(2)(i) *Monitoring.* Each pump and agitator subject to this section shall be monitored quarterly to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b) except as provided in §§ 63.177, 63.178, paragraph (f) of this section, and paragraphs (c)(5) through (9) of this section. 


(ii) *Leak definition.* The instrument reading, as determined by the method as specified in § 63.180(b), that defines a leak is:


(A) For agitators, an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater.


(B) For pumps, an instrument reading of 2,000 parts per million or greater.


(iii) *Visual Inspections.* Each pump and agitator shall be checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next weekly inspection.


(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump or agitator by the method specified in § 63.180(b). If the instrument reading indicates a leak as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected. 


(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.


(3) *Repair provisions.* (i) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(iii)(A), (c)(5)(iv)(A), or (c)(5)(vi)(B) of this section, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.


(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:


(A) Tightening of packing gland nuts.


(B) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.


(4) *Calculation of percent leakers.* (i) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the end of the first monitoring period what groups of processes will be developed. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percent calculations shall be made on the same basis.


(ii) If, calculated on a 1-year rolling average, the greater of either 10 percent or three of the pumps in a group of processes leak, the owner or operator shall monitor each pump once per month, until the calculated 1-year rolling average value drops below 10 percent or three pumps, as applicable.


(iii) The number of pumps in a group of processes shall be the sum of all the pumps in organic HAP service, except that pumps found leaking in a continuous process within 1 quarter after startup of the pump shall not count in the percent leaking pumps calculation for that one monitoring period only.


(iv) Percent leaking pumps shall be determined by the following Equation 3:


(5) *Exemptions.* Each pump or agitator equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section, provided the following requirements are met:


(i) Each dual mechanical seal system is:


(A) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump/agitator stuffing box pressure; or


(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section; or


(C) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.


(ii) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.


(iii) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(iv) Each pump/agitator is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in either paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next required inspection. 


(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump or agitator using the method specified in § 63.180(b) to determine if there is a leak of organic HAP in the barrier fluid. If the instrument reading indicates a leak, as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected. 


(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.


(v) Each sensor as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.


(vi)(A) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicate failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(B) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, or if, based on the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected. 


(vii) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section, the leak must be repaired as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(6) Any pump/agitator that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump/agitator housing is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(7) Any pump/agitator equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals back to the process or to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section. 


(8) Any pump/agitator that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (c)(5)(iv) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section, provided that each pump/agitator is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.


(9) If more than 90 percent of the pumps in a group of processes meet the criteria in either paragraph (c)(5) or (6) of this section, the group of processes is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. 


(d) *Standards: Open-ended valves or lines.* (1)(i) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in § 63.177 and paragraphs (d)(4) through (6) of this section.


(ii) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or during maintenance or repair. The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall be in place within 1 hour of cessation of operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or within 1 hour of cessation of maintenance or repair. The owner or operator is not required to keep a record documenting compliance with the 1-hour requirement. 


(2) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.


(3) When a double block and bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section at all other times.


(4) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.


(5) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.


(6) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which could cause an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.


(e) *Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.* (1) The provisions of this section apply to valves that are either in gas organic HAP service or in light liquid organic HAP service.


(2) For existing and new affected sources, all valves subject to this section shall be monitored, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and in § 63.177, by no later than 1 year after the compliance date.


(3) *Monitoring.* The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall monitor all valves, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and in § 63.177, at the intervals specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section and shall comply with all other provisions of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, §§ 63.178 and 63.179. 


(i) The valves shall be monitored to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.180(b).


(ii) An instrument reading of 500 parts per million or greater defines a leak.


(4) *Subsequent monitoring frequencies.* After conducting the initial survey required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor valves for leaks at the intervals specified below:


(i) For a group of processes with 2 percent or greater leaking valves, calculated according to paragraph (e)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once per month, except as specified in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(ii) For a group of processes with less than 2 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once each quarter, except as provided in paragraphs (e)(4)(iii) through (e)(4)(v) of this section.


(iii) For a group of processes with less than 1 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 quarters.


(iv) For a group of processes with less than 0.5 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 4 quarters.


(v) For a group of processes with less than 0.25 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 years.


(5) *Calculation of percent leakers.* For a group of processes to which this subpart applies, an owner or operator may choose to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes and apply the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section to each subgroup. If the owner or operator elects to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes, then the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (e)(5)(viii) of this section apply.


(i) The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes must be less than 2 percent leaking valves, as detected according to paragraphs (e)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section and as calculated according to paragraphs (e)(6) (ii) and (iii) of this section.


(ii) The initial assignment or subsequent reassignment of valves to subgroups shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator shall determine which valves are assigned to each subgroup. Valves with less than 1 year of monitoring data or valves not monitored within the last 12 months must be placed initially into the most frequently monitored subgroup until at least 1 year of monitoring data has been obtained.


(B) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a less frequently monitored subgroup to a more frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned were monitored during the most recent monitoring period for the less frequently monitored subgroup. The monitoring results must be included with the less frequently monitored subgroup's monitoring event and associated next percent leaking valves calculation for that group.


(C) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a more frequently monitored subgroup to a less frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned have not leaked for the period of the less frequently monitored subgroup (e.g., for the last 12 months, if the valve or group of valves is to be reassigned to a subgroup being monitored annually). Nonrepairable valves may not be reassigned to a less frequently monitored subgroup.


(iii) The owner or operator shall determine every 6 months if the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is less than 2 percent leaking valves and so indicate the performance in the next periodic report. If the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is 2 percent leaking valves or greater, the owner or operator shall revert to the program required in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section. The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes shall be calculated as a weighted average of the percent leaking valves of each subgroup according to the following Equation 4:


(iv) *Records.* In addition to records required by paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Which valves are assigned to each subgroup,


(B) Monitoring results and calculations made for each subgroup for each monitoring period,


(C) Which valves are reassigned and when they were reassigned, and


(D) The results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required in paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section.


(v) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the next monitoring period of the decision to subgroup valves. The notification shall identify the participating processes and the valves assigned to each subgroup.


(vi) *Semiannual reports.* In addition to the information required by paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit in the periodic reports the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) Valve reassignments occurring during the reporting period, and


(B) Results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required by paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section.


(vii) To determine the monitoring frequency for each subgroup, the calculation procedures of paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section shall be used.


(viii) Except for the overall performance calculations required by paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (e)(5)(iii) of this section, each subgroup shall be treated as if it were a process for the purposes of applying the provisions of this section.


(6)(i) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the implementation date of this subpart or upon revision of an operating permit how to group the processes. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percentage calculations shall be made on the same basis.


(ii) Percent leaking valves for each group of processes or subgroup shall be determined by the following Equation 5:


(iii) When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to monthly, quarterly, or semiannual monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last two monitoring periods. When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to annual or biennial (once every 2 years) monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last three monitoring periods.


(iv)(A) Nonrepairable valves shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves the first time the valve is identified as leaking and nonrepairable and as required to comply with paragraph (e)(6)(iv)(B) of this section. Otherwise, a number of nonrepairable valves (identified and included in the percent leaking calculation in a previous period) up to a maximum of 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process may be excluded from calculation of percent leaking valves for subsequent monitoring periods.


(B) If the number of nonrepairable valves exceeds 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process, the number of nonrepairable valves exceeding 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves.


(7) *Repair provisions.* (i) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i)) of this section.


(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.


(iii) When a leak is repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair. Days that the valve is not in organic HAP service shall not be considered part of this 3 month period. The monitoring required by this paragraph is in addition to the monitoring required to satisfy the definitions of “repaired” and “first attempt at repair.”


(A) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in § 63.180(b) and (c) as appropriate to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking. 


(B) Periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. 


(C) If a leak is detected by monitoring that is conducted pursuant to paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the provisions of paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section to determine whether that valve must be counted as a leaking valve for purposes of paragraph (e)(6) of this section. 


(*1*) If the owner or operator elects to use periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve. 


(*2*) If the owner or operator elects to use other monitoring prior to the periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve unless it is repaired and shown by periodic monitoring not to be leaking. 


(8) First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:


(i) Tightening of bonnet bolts,


(ii) Replacement of bonnet bolts,


(iii) Tightening of packing gland nuts, and


(iv) Injection of lubricant into lubricated packing.


(9) Any equipment located at a plant site with fewer than 250 valves in organic HAP service in the affected source is exempt from the requirements for monthly monitoring specified in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve in organic HAP service for leaks once each quarter, or comply with paragraph (e)(4)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.


(f) *Unsafe to monitor/inspect, difficult to monitor/inspect, and inaccessible equipment.* (1) Equipment that is designated as unsafe to monitor, unsafe to inspect, difficult to monitor, difficult to inspect, or inaccessible is exempt from the monitoring requirements as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section provided the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2), (3), or (4) of this section, as applicable. All equipment must be assigned to a group of processes. Ceramic or ceramic-lined connectors are subject to the same requirements as inaccessible connectors. 


(i) For pumps and agitators, paragraphs (c)(2), (3), and (4) of this section do not apply. 


(ii) For valves, paragraphs (e)(2) through (7) of this section do not apply. 


(iii) For connectors, § 63.174(b) through (e) and paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) through (F) of this section do not apply. 


(iv) For closed-vent systems, § 63.172(f)(1) and (2) and § 63.172(g) do not apply. 


(2) *Equipment that is unsafe to monitor or unsafe to inspect.* (i) Valves, connectors, agitators, and pumps may be designated as unsafe to monitor if the owner or operator determines that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the monitoring requirements referred to in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(ii) Any part of a closed-vent system may be designated as unsafe to inspect if the owner or operator determines that monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with the monitoring requirements referred to in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. 


(iii) The owner or operator of equipment that is designated as unsafe to monitor must have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe to monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable to the group of processes in which the equipment is located. 


(iv) For any parts of a closed-vent system designated as unsafe to inspect, the owner or operator must have a written plan that requires inspection of the closed-vent systems as frequently as practicable during safe to inspect times, but not more frequently than annually. 


(3) *Equipment that is difficult to monitor or difficult to inspect.* (i) A valve, agitator, or pump may be designated as difficult to monitor if the owner or operator determines that the valve, agitator, or pump cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface, or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in organic HAP service. 


(ii) Any part of a closed-vent system may be designated as difficult to inspect if the owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface, or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in organic HAP service. 


(iii) At an existing source, any valve, agitator or pump within a group of processes that meets the criteria of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section may be designated as difficult to monitor, and any parts of a closed-vent system that meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section may be designated as difficult to inspect. At a new affected source, an owner or operator may designate no more than 3 percent of valves as difficult to monitor. 


(iv) The owner or operator of valves, agitators, or pumps designated as difficult to monitor must have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment at least once per calendar year or on the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable to the group of processes in which the equipment is located, whichever is less frequent. For any part of a closed-vent system designated as difficult to inspect, the owner or operator must have a written plan that requires inspection of the closed-vent system at least once every 5 years. 


(4) *Inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors.* (i) A connector may be designated as inaccessible if it is: 


(A) Buried; 


(B) Insulated in a manner that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe; 


(C) Obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe; 


(D) Unable to be reached from a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic-type scaffold which would allow access to equipment up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the ground; or 


(E) Not able to be accessed at any time in a safe manner to perform monitoring. Unsafe access includes, but is not limited to, the use of a wheeled scissor-lift on unstable or uneven terrain, the use of a motorized man-lift basket in areas where an ignition potential exists, or access would require near proximity to hazards such as electrical lines, or would risk damage to equipment. 


(ii) A connector may be designated as inaccessible if it would require elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a permanent support surface or would require the erection of scaffold. 


(iii) At an existing source, any connector that meets the criteria of paragraph (f)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section may be designated as inaccessible. At a new affected source, an owner or operator may designate no more than 3 percent of connectors as inaccessible. 


(iv) If any inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connector is observed by visual, audible, olfactory, or other means to be leaking, the leak shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section. 


(v) Any connector that is inaccessible or that is ceramic or ceramic-lined is exempt from the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.


(g) *Recordkeeping requirements.* (1) An owner or operator of more than one group of processes subject to the provisions of this section may comply with the recordkeeping requirements for the groups of processes in one recordkeeping system if the system identifies with each record the program being implemented (e.g., quarterly monitoring) for each type of equipment. All records and information required by this section shall be maintained in a manner that can be readily accessed at the plant site. This could include physically locating the records at the plant site or accessing the records from a central location by computer at the plant site.


(2) *General recordkeeping.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section and in paragraph (a)(9) of this section, the following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in this section shall be recorded: 


(i)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except connectors that are subject to paragraph (f)(4) of this section) subject to the requirements of this section. Except for equipment subject to the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) through (viii) of this section, equipment need not be individually identified if, for a particular type of equipment, all items of that equipment in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this section are identified as a group, and the number of subject items of equipment is indicated. The list for each type of equipment shall be completed no later than the completion of the initial survey required for that component. The list of identification numbers shall be updated, if needed, to incorporate equipment changes identified during the course of each monitoring period within 90 calendar days, or by the next Periodic Report, following the end of the monitoring period for the type of equipment component monitored, whichever is later. 


(B) A schedule for monitoring connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(a) and valves subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(C) Physical tagging of the equipment to indicate that it is in organic HAP service is not required. Equipment subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(ii)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, under the provisions of paragraph (c)(7) of this section, § 63.164(h), or § 63.165(c).


(B) A list of identification numbers for compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.164(i).


(iii)(A) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.165(a).


(B) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions of § 63.165(d).


(iv) Identification of instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of this section. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.


(v) The following information shall be recorded for each dual mechanical seal system:


(A) Design criteria required by paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section and § 63.164(e)(2), and an explanation of the design criteria; and


(B) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.


(vi) A list of equipment designated as unsafe to monitor/inspect or difficult to monitor/inspect under paragraph (f) of this section and a copy of the plan for monitoring or inspecting this equipment. 


(vii) A list of connectors removed from and added to the process, as described in § 63.174(i)(1), and documentation of the integrity of the weld for any removed connectors, as required in § 63.174(j). This is not required unless the net credits for removed connectors is expected to be used.


(viii) For equipment that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under § 63.178(c), a list of equipment added to batch product processes since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii). This list must be completed for each type of equipment within 90 calendar days, or by the next Periodic Report, following the end of the monitoring period for the type of equipment monitored, whichever is later. Also, if the owner or operator elects to adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii), records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in a manner subject to the provisions of this section are required. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit. 


(3) *Records of visual inspections.* For visual inspections of equipment subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (c)(5)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall document that the inspection was conducted and the date of the inspection. The owner or operator shall maintain records as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section for leaking equipment identified in this inspection, except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section. These records shall be retained for 2 years.


(4) *Monitoring records.* When each leak is detected as specified in paragraph (c) of this section and § 63.164, paragraph (e) of this section and § 63.169, and §§ 63.172 and 63.174, the following information shall be recorded and kept for 5 years (at least 2 years onsite, with the remaining 3 years either onsite or offsite):


(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.


(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak.


(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(iv) The maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, after the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable. 


(v) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.


(A) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures shall be included in a document that is maintained at the plant site. Reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.


(B) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked onsite before depletion and the reason for depletion.


(vi) If repairs were delayed, dates of process shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.


(vii)(A) If the alternative in § 63.174(c)(1)(ii) is not in use for the monitoring period, identification, either by list, location (area or grouping), or tagging of connectors disturbed since the last monitoring period required in § 63.174(b), as described in § 63.174(c)(1).


(B) The date and results of follow-up monitoring as required in § 63.174(c)(1)(i) and (c)(2)(ii). If identification of disturbed connectors is made by location, then all connectors within the designated location shall be monitored.


(viii) The date and results of the monitoring required in § 63.178(c)(3)(i) for equipment added to a batch process since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii). If no leaking equipment is found in this monitoring, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed. Records of the actual monitoring results are not required.


(ix) Copies of the periodic reports as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, if records are not maintained on a computerized data base capable of generating summary reports from the records.


(5) *Records of pressure tests.* The owner or operator who elects to pressure test a process equipment train or supply lines between storage and processing areas to demonstrate compliance with this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (g)(2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:


(i) The identification of each product, or product code, produced during the calendar year. It is not necessary to identify individual items of equipment in the process equipment train.


(ii) Physical tagging of the equipment to identify that it is in organic HAP service and subject to the provisions of this section is not required. Equipment in a process subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.


(iii) The dates of each pressure test required in § 63.178(b), the test pressure, and the pressure drop observed during the test.


(iv) Records of any visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.


(v) When a process equipment train does not pass two consecutive pressure tests, the following information shall be recorded in a log and kept for 2 years:


(A) The date of each pressure test and the date of each leak repair attempt.


(B) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.


(C) The reason for the delay of repair.


(D) The expected date for delivery of the replacement equipment and the actual date of delivery of the replacement equipment.


(E) The date of successful repair.


(6) *Records of compressor and relief device compliance tests.* The dates and results of each compliance test required for compressors subject to the provisions in § 63.164(i) and the dates and results of the monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in §§ 63.165(a) and (b). The results shall include:


(i) The background level measured during each compliance test.


(ii) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.


(7) *Records for closed-vent systems.* The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section for closed-vent systems and control devices subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. The records specified in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section shall be retained for the life of the equipment. The records specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(ii) and (g)(7)(iii) of this section shall be retained for 2 years.


(i) The design specifications and performance demonstrations specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i)(A) through (g)(7)(i)(D) of this section.


(A) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.


(B) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.


(C) The flare design (i.e., steam assisted, air assisted, or nonassisted) and the results of the compliance demonstration required by § 63.11(b).


(D) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.


(ii) Records of operation of closed-vent systems and control devices.


(A) Dates and durations when the closed-vent systems and control devices required in paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166 are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters, including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame.


(B) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.


(C) Dates and durations of startups and shutdowns of control devices required in paragraph (c)(7) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166.


(iii) Records of inspections of closed-vent systems subject to the provisions of § 63.172.


(A) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) during which no leaks were detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.


(B) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) during which leaks were detected, the information specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section shall be recorded.


(8) *Records for components in heavy liquid service.* Information, data, and analysis used to determine that a piece of equipment or process is in heavy liquid service shall be recorded. Such a determination shall include an analysis or demonstration that the process fluids do not meet the criteria of “in light liquid or gas service.” Examples of information that could document this include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.


(9) *Records of exempt components.* Identification, either by list, location (area or group) of equipment in organic HAP service less than 300 hours per year subject to the provisions of this section.


(10) *Records of alternative means of compliance determination.* Owners and operators choosing to comply with the requirements of § 63.179 shall maintain the following records:


(i) Identification of the process(es) and the organic HAP they handle.


(ii) A schematic of the process, enclosure, and closed-vent system.


(iii) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure to ensure that all emissions are routed to the control device.


(h) *Reporting requirements.* (1) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section.


(i) A Notification of Compliance Status Report described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,


(ii) Periodic reports described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.


(2) *Notification of compliance status report.* Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status Report described in § 63.1260(f).


(i) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.


(A) Process group identification.


(B) Number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) in organic HAP service, excluding equipment in vacuum service. 


(C) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, “monthly leak detection and repair” or “equipped with dual mechanical seals”).


(ii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section and § 63.178(b).


(A) Products or product codes subject to the provisions of this section, and


(B) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this section.


(iii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements in § 63.179.


(A) Process identification.


(B) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(iv) Section 63.9(j) shall not apply to the Notification of Compliance Status report described in this paragraph (h)(2). 


(3) *Periodic reports.* The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit Periodic Reports.


(i) A report containing the information in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section shall be submitted semiannually. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due. Each subsequent report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period.


(ii) For equipment complying with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, except paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section and § 63.179, the summary information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii)(A) through (L) of this section for each monitoring period during the 6-month period. 


(A) The number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the percent leakers, and the total number of valves monitored;


(B) The number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(C) Separately, the number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the total number of pumps and agitators monitored, and, for pumps, the percent leakers; 


(D) Separately, the number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section; 


(E) The number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.164(f);


(F) The number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.164(g);


(G) The number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.174(a), the percent of connectors leaking, and the total number of connectors monitored;


(H) The number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.174(d), identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(I) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process shutdown was technically infeasible.


(J) The results of all monitoring to show compliance with §§ 63.164(i), 63.165(a), and 63.172(f) conducted within the semiannual reporting period.


(K) If applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program under either paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section.


(L) If applicable, notification of a change in connector monitoring alternatives as described in § 63.174(c)(1).


(iii) For owners or operators electing to meet the requirements of § 63.178(b), the report shall include the information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(iii)(A) through (E) of this paragraph for each process.


(A) Product process equipment train identification;


(B) The number of pressure tests conducted;


(C) The number of pressure tests where the equipment train failed either the retest or two consecutive pressure tests;


(D) The facts that explain any delay of repairs; and


(E) The results of all monitoring to determine compliance with § 63.172(f) of subpart H.


(iv) Any revisions to items reported in earlier Notification of Compliance Status report, if the method of compliance has changed since the last report.



---

[N] [63 FR 50326, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 52603, Aug. 29, 2000; 66 FR 40132, Aug. 2, 2001; 76 FR 22600, Apr. 21, 2011]




