# ยง 414.508   Payment for a new clinical diagnostic laboratory test.

(a) For a new CDLT that is assigned a new or substantially revised code between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2017, CMS determines the payment amount based on either of the following:


(1) *Crosswalking.* Crosswalking is used if it is determined that a new CDLT is comparable to an existing test, multiple existing test codes, or a portion of an existing test code.


(i) CMS assigns to the new CDLT code, the local fee schedule amounts and national limitation amount of the existing test.


(ii) Payment for the new CDLT code is made at the lesser of the local fee schedule amount or the national limitation amount.


(2) *Gapfilling.* Gapfilling is used when no comparable existing CDLT is available.


(i) In the first year, Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts are established for the new CDLT code using the following sources of information to determine gapfill amounts, if available:


(A) Charges for the CDLT and routine discounts to charges;


(B) Resources required to perform the CDLT;


(C) Payment amounts determined by other payors; and


(D) Charges, payment amounts, and resources required for other tests that may be comparable or otherwise relevant.


(ii) In the second year, the test code is paid at the national limitation amount, which is the median of the contractor-specific amounts.


(iii) For a new CDLT for which a new or substantially revised HCPCS code was assigned on or before December 31, 2007, after the first year of gapfilling, CMS determines whether the contractor-specific amounts will pay for the test appropriately. If CMS determines that the contractor-specific amounts will not pay for the test appropriately, CMS may crosswalk the test.


(b) For a new CDLT that is assigned a new or substantially revised HCPCS code on or after January 1, 2018, CMS determines the payment amount based on either of the following until applicable information is available to establish a payment amount under the methodology described in ยง 414.507(b):


(1) *Crosswalking.* Crosswalking is used if it is determined that a new CDLT is comparable to an existing test, multiple existing test codes, or a portion of an existing test code.


(i) CMS assigns to the new CDLT code, the payment amount established under ยง 414.507 of the comparable existing CDLT.


(ii) Payment for the new CDLT code is made at the payment amount established under ยง 414.507.


(2) *Gapfilling.* Gapfilling is used when no comparable existing CDLT is available.


(i) In the first year, Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts are established for the new CDLT code using the following sources of information to determine gapfill amounts, if available:


(A) Charges for the test and routine discounts to charges;


(B) Resources required to perform the test;


(C) Payment amounts determined by other payors;


(D) Charges, payment amounts, and resources required for other tests that may be comparable or otherwise relevant; and


(E) Other criteria CMS determines appropriate.


(ii) In the second year, the CDLT code is paid at the median of the Medicare Administrative Contractor-specific amounts.



---

[N] [81 FR 41100, June 23, 2016]




