# § 63.625   Operating and monitoring requirements.

(a) For each phosphate fertilizer process line (*e.g.,* diammonium and/or monoammonium phosphate process line), or granular triple superphosphate process line subject to the provisions of this subpart, you must comply with the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) according to your site-specific monitoring plan specified in § 63.628(c). The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range and must determine and permanently record the mass flow of phosphorus-bearing material fed to the process.


(2) Maintain a daily record of equivalent P_2_O_5_ feed. Calculate the equivalent P_2_O_5_ feed by determining the total mass rate in metric ton/hour of phosphorus bearing feed using the procedures specified in § 63.626(f)(3).


(b) For each granular triple superphosphate storage building subject to the provisions of this subpart, you must maintain an accurate record of the mass of granular triple superphosphate in storage to permit the determination of the amount of equivalent P_2_O_5_ stored.


(c) For each granular triple superphosphate storage building subject to the provisions of this subpart, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Maintain a daily record of total equivalent P_2_O_5_ stored by multiplying the percentage P_2_O_5_ content, as determined by § 63.626(f)(3)(ii), by the total mass of granular triple superphosphate stored as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Develop for approval by the Administrator a site-specific methodology including sufficient recordkeeping for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with § 63.622(b).


(d) If you use a control device(s) to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart, you must install a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) You must monitor the operating parameter(s) applicable to the control device that you use as specified in Table 3 to this subpart and establish the applicable limit or range for the operating parameter limit as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, determine the value(s) as the arithmetic average of operating parameter measurements recorded during the three test runs conducted for the most recent performance test.


(ii) If you use an absorber to comply with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you monitor pressure drop across the absorber, you must establish allowable ranges using the methodology specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The allowable range for the daily averages of the pressure drop across an absorber and of the flow rate of the absorber liquid to each absorber in the process absorbing system, or secondary voltage for a wet electrostatic precipitator, is ±20 percent of the baseline average value determined in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.


(B) As an alternative to paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, you may establish allowable ranges for the daily averages of the pressure drop across an absorber for the purpose of assuring compliance with this subpart using the procedures described in this paragraph. You must establish the allowable ranges based on the baseline average values recorded during previous performance tests or the results of performance tests conducted specifically for the purposes of this paragraph. You must conduct all performance tests using the methods specified in § 63.626. You must certify that the control devices and processes have not been modified since the date of the performance test from which you obtained the data used to establish the allowable ranges. When a source using the methodology of this paragraph is retested, you must determine new allowable ranges of baseline average values unless the retest indicates no change in the operating parameters outside the previously established ranges.


(2) You must monitor, record, and demonstrate continuous compliance using the minimum frequencies specified in Table 4 to this subpart.


(3) You must comply with the calibration and quality control requirements that are applicable to the operating parameter(s) you monitor as specified in Table 5 to this subpart.


(4) If you use a fabric filter system to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, the system must meet the requirements for fabric filters specified in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) Beginning August 19, 2016, if you use a fabric filter system to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, then the fabric filter must be equipped with a bag leak detection system that is installed, calibrated, maintained and continuously operated according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) Install a bag leak detection sensor(s) in a position(s) that will be representative of the relative or absolute particulate matter loadings for each exhaust stack, roof vent, or compartment (*e.g.,* for a positive-pressure fabric filter) of the fabric filter.


(2) Use a bag leak detection system certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic feet) or less.


(3) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the system sensor.


(4) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a system that will trigger an alarm when an increase in relative particulate material emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located such that the alert is observed readily by plant operating personnel.


(5) Install a bag leak detection system in each compartment or cell for positive-pressure fabric filter systems that do not duct all compartments or cells to a common stack. Install a bag leak detector downstream of the fabric filter if a negative-pressure or induced-air filter is used. If multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.


(6) Calibration of the bag leak detection system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output level by adjusting the range and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.


(7) After initial adjustment, you must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points or alarm delay time, except as established in your site-specific monitoring plan required in § 63.628(c). In no event may the sensitivity be increased more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete inspection of the fabric filter system that demonstrates that the system is in good operating condition.


(8) Operate and maintain each fabric filter and bag leak detection system such that the alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. If the alarm sounds more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period, it is considered an operating parameter exceedance. Calculate the alarm time (*i.e.,* time that the alarm sounds) as specified in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that corrective action is not required, the alarm duration is not counted in the alarm time calculation.


(ii) If corrective action is required, each alarm time is counted as a minimum of 1 hour.


(iii) If it takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, each alarm time (*i.e.,* time that the alarm sounds) is counted as the actual amount of time taken by you to initiate corrective action.


(9) If the alarm on a bag leak detection system is triggered, you must initiate procedures within 1 hour of an alarm to identify the cause of the alarm and then initiate corrective action, as specified in § 63.628(d)(2), no later than 48 hours after an alarm. Failure to take these actions within the prescribed time periods is considered a violation.


(10) Retain records of any bag leak detection system alarm, including the date, time, duration, and the percent of the total operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm triggers, with a brief explanation of the cause of the alarm, the corrective action taken, and the schedule and duration of the corrective action.



---

[N] [80 FR 50450, Aug. 19, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 45200, Sept. 28, 2017]




