# ยง 50.53   Collection of claims data.

(a) *General.* Subsequent to any certification by the Secretary of an act of terrorism, insurers shall report to Treasury information respecting insured losses arising from the act of terrorism.


(b) *Contents of periodic reporting.* Reporting under this subsection shall be by a form prescribed by Treasury and made available on the Treasury Web site, which provides basic information about each claim established by an insurer that involves or potentially involves an insured loss. Information to be reported for any claims by or against a policyholder shall identify paid and reserved amounts associated with the claim. In the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the form required by this subsection shall be submitted by a single insurer designated within the affiliated group, which shall report on a consolidated basis. Data and information reported under this subsection will include:


(1) A listing of each claim by name of insured, catastrophe code, line of business, and in the case of an affiliated group of insurers, the particular insurer or insurers within the group associated with each claim;


(2) Amounts paid, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report; and


(3) Amounts reserved, both loss and loss adjustment expenses, in connection with the claim as of the effective date of the report.


(c) *Timing of reporting.* To the extent that an insurer has established one or more claims that it believes involve insured losses arising from an act of terrorism, the insurer shall submit its first report within 60 days of establishing the first of such claims. An updated report shall be submitted each month thereafter, reporting data as of the prior month, until all claims arising from the act of terrorism have been resolved.


(d) *Interrelationship with other reporting requirements.* The reporting requirements under this subsection are independent of the Initial Notice of Deductible Erosion, Initial Certification of Loss, and Supplementary Certifications of Loss requirements in subpart H.


(e) *Other sources of information.* Subsequent to any certification of an act of terrorism, Treasury may also seek information respecting loss estimates and projections from one or more organizations that are not participants in the Program, such as state insurance regulators, insurance modeling organizations, rating agencies, insurance brokers and producers, and insurance data aggregators. A data request may also be directed to insurers identified in connection with such inquiries. An insurer subject to such a data call shall respond to this request within the time frame specified in the request.




