# § 63.9583   When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than October 30, 2006, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before October 30, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by October 30, 2003, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after October 30, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(d) If your taconite iron ore processing plant is an area source that becomes a major source of HAP, the compliance dates in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section apply to you.


(1) Any portion of the taconite iron ore processing plant that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.


(2) All other parts of the taconite iron ore processing plant must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 3 years after the plant becomes a major source.


(e) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in § 63.9640. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.


(f) If you have an affected indurating furnace that commenced construction before May 15, 2023, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section by March 8, 2027. If you have an affected indurating furnace that commenced construction or reconstruction on or after May 15, 2023, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section by March 6, 2024 or the date of initial startup, whichever is later.


(1) All applicable emission limits for mercury, hydrogen chloride, and hydrogen fluoride in tables 2 and 3 to this subpart.


(2) All applicable operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(5) through (8), established in accordance with § 63.9622(g) through (i), for each control device used to comply with the mercury, hydrogen chloride, and hydrogen fluoride emission limits.


(3) All applicable compliance requirements in §§ 63.9600, 63.9610, 63.9623, 63.9625, and 63.9637(a).


(4) The applicable performance testing or continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) requirements for mercury in §§ 63.9620(k), 63.9621(d), and 63.9630.


(5) All applicable performance testing requirements in §§ 63.9620(l), 63.9621(d), and 63.9630.


(6) The requirements to install and maintain monitoring equipment in § 63.6332(g) through (i) and the monitoring requirements in §§ 63.9631, 63.9633, and 63.9634 for each control device used to comply with the mercury, hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride emission limits.


(7) The notification, reporting and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 63.9640, 63.9641, 63.9642, and 63.9643 applicable to the mercury, hydrogen chloride, and hydrogen fluoride emission standards.



---

[N] [89 FR 16424, Mar. 6, 2024]






