# § 192.941   What is a low stress reassessment?

(a) *General.* An operator of a transmission line that operates below 30% SMYS may use the following method to reassess a covered segment in accordance with § 192.939. This method of reassessment addresses the threats of external and internal corrosion. The operator must have conducted a baseline assessment of the covered segment in accordance with the requirements of §§ 192.919 and 192.921. 


(b) *External corrosion.* An operator must take one of the following actions to address external corrosion on the low stress covered segment. 


(1) *Cathodically protected pipe.* To address the threat of external corrosion on cathodically protected pipe in a covered segment, an operator must perform an indirect assessment on the covered segment at least once every 7 calendar years. The indirect assessment must be conducted using one of the following means: indirect examination method, such as a close interval survey; alternating current voltage gradient survey; direct current voltage gradient survey; or the equivalent of any of these methods. An operator must evaluate the cathodic protection and corrosion threat for the covered segment and include the results of each indirect assessment as part of the overall evaluation. This evaluation must also include, at a minimum, the leak repair and inspection records, corrosion monitoring records, exposed pipe inspection records, and the pipeline environment.


(2) *Unprotected pipe or cathodically protected pipe where external corrosion assessments are impractical.* If an external corrosion assessment is impractical on the covered segment an operator must—




(i) Conduct leakage surveys as required by § 192.706 at 4-month intervals; and 


(ii) Every 18 months, identify and remediate areas of active corrosion by evaluating leak repair and inspection records, corrosion monitoring records, exposed pipe inspection records, and the pipeline environment. 


(c) *Internal corrosion.* To address the threat of internal corrosion on a covered segment, an operator must— 


(1) Conduct a gas analysis for corrosive agents at least once each calendar year; 


(2) Conduct periodic testing of fluids removed from the segment. At least once each calendar year test the fluids removed from each storage field that may affect a covered segment; and 


(3) At least every seven (7) years, integrate data from the analysis and testing required by paragraphs (c)(1)-(c)(2) with applicable internal corrosion leak records, incident reports, safety-related condition reports, repair records, patrol records, exposed pipe reports, and test records, and define and implement appropriate remediation actions. 



---

[N] [68 FR 69817, Dec. 15, 2003, as amended by Amdt. 192-95, 69 FR 18234, Apr. 6, 2004; Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52279, Aug. 24, 2022]




