# § 414.707   Basis of payment.

(a) *Method of payment.* (1) Payment for a drug in calendar year 2004 is based on the lesser of—


(i) The actual charge on the claim for program benefits; or


(ii) 85 percent of the average wholesale price determined as of April 1, 2003, subject to the exceptions as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(8) of this section.


(2) The payment limits for the following drugs are calculated using 95 percent of the average wholesale price:


(i) Blood clotting factors.


(ii) A drug or biological furnished during 2004 that was not available for Medicare payment as of April 1, 2003.


(iii) Pneumococcal, influenza, and COVID-19 vaccines as well as hepatitis B vaccine that is furnished to individuals at high or intermediate risk of contracting hepatitis B (as defined in § 410.63(a) of this subchapter).


(iv) A drug or biological furnished during 2004 in connection with the furnishing of renal dialysis services if separately billed by renal dialysis facilities.


(3) The payment limits for infusion drugs furnished through a covered item of durable medical equipment are calculated using 95 percent of the average wholesale price in effect on October 1, 2003.


(4) The payments limits for drugs contained in the following table are calculated based on the percentages of the average wholesale price determined as of April 1, 2003 that are specified in the table.


(5) The payment limits for imiglucerase and alglucerase are calculated using 94 percent of the average wholesale price determined as of April 1, 2003.


(6) Exception. The payment limit for a drug otherwise subject to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or paragraph (a)(4) of this section may be calculated using the percentage of the average wholesale price as the Secretary deems appropriate based on data and information submitted by the drug manufacturer.


(i) The manufacturer must submit data after October 15, 2003 and before January 1, 2004.


(ii) The percentage only applies for drugs furnished on or after April 1, 2004.


(7) In the case of blood and blood products (other than blood clotting factors), the payment limits shall be determined in the same manner as such payment limit was determined on October 1, 2003.


(b) *Mandatory assignment.* Effective with services furnished on or after February 1, 2001, payment for any drug covered under Part B of Medicare may be made on an assignment-related basis only. All billers must accept the program allowed charge as payment in full and may not bill nor collect from the beneficiary any amount other than the unmet Part B deductible and Part B coinsurance amounts, if applicable. Violations of this requirement may subject the supplier to sanctions, as provided by the statute (See § 402 of this chapter).


(c) *Mandatory reporting of anemia quality indicators.* The following provisions are effective January 1, 2008:


(1) Each request for payment for anti-anemia drugs furnished to treat anemia resulting from the treatment of cancer must report the beneficiary's most recent hemoglobin or hematocrit level;


(2) Each request for payment for use of erythropoiesis stimulating agents must report the beneficiary's most recent hemoglobin or hematocrit level.



---

[N] [69 FR 1116, Jan. 7, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 66402, Nov. 27, 2007; 85 FR 71197, Nov. 6, 2020; 87 FR 70226, Nov. 18, 2022]




