# ยง 63.15   Duties of, and standards applicable to, non-VA community-based providers.

A non-VA community-based provider must meet all of the standards and provide the appropriate services identified in this section, as well as any additional requirements set forth in a specific contract.


(a) *Facility safety requirements.* The facility must meet all applicable safety requirements set forth in 38 CFR 17.81(a).


(b) *Treatment plans, therapeutic/rehabilitative services, and case management.* Individualized treatment plans are to be developed through a joint effort of the veteran, non-VA community-based provider staff, and VA clinical staff. Therapeutic and rehabilitative services, as well as case management and outreach services, must be provided by the non-VA community-based provider as described in the treatment plan. In some cases, VA may complement the non-VA community-based provider's program with added treatment or other services, such as participation in VA outpatient programs or counseling. In addition to case management services, for example, to coordinate or address relevant issues related to a veteran's homelessness and health as identified in the individual treatment plan, services provided by the non-VA community-based provider should generally include, as appropriate:


(1) Structured group activities such as group therapy, social skills training, self-help group meetings, or peer counseling.


(2) Professional counseling, including counseling on self-care skills, adaptive coping skills, and, as appropriate, vocational rehabilitation counseling, in collaboration with VA programs and community resources.


(c) *Quality of life, room and board.* (1) The non-VA community-based provider must provide residential room and board in an environment that promotes a lifestyle free of substance abuse.


(2) The environment must be conducive to social interaction, supportive of recovery models and the fullest development of the resident's rehabilitative potential.


(3) Residents must be assisted in maintaining an acceptable level of personal hygiene and grooming.


(4) Residential programs must provide laundry facilities.


(5) VA will give preference to facilities located close to public transportation and/or areas that provide employment.


(6) The program must promote community interaction, as demonstrated by the nature of scheduled activities or by information about resident involvement with community activities, volunteers, and local consumer services.


(7) Adequate meals must be provided in a setting that encourages social interaction; nutritious snacks between meals and before bedtime must be available.


(d) *Staffing.* The non-VA community-based provider must employ sufficient professional staff and other personnel to carry out the policies and procedures of the program. There will be at a minimum, an employee on duty on the premises, or residing at the program and available for emergencies, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Staff interaction with residents should convey an attitude of genuine concern and caring.


(e) *Inspections.* (1) VA must be permitted to conduct an initial inspection prior to the award of the contract and follow-up inspections of the non-VA community-based provider's facility and records. At inspections, the non-VA community-based provider must make available the documentation described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(2) If problems are identified as a result of an inspection, VA will establish a plan of correction and schedule a follow-up inspection to ensure that the problems are corrected. Contracts will not be awarded or renewed until noted deficiencies have been eliminated to the satisfaction of the inspector.


(3) Non-VA community-based providers must keep sufficient documentation to support a finding that they comply with this section, including accurate records of participants' lengths of stay, and these records must be made available at all VA inspections.


(4) Inspections under this section may be conducted without prior notice.


(f) *Rights of veteran participants.* The non-VA community-based provider must comply with all applicable patients' rights provisions set forth in 38 CFR 17.33.


(g) *Services and supplies.* VA per diem payments under this part will include the services specified in the contract and any other services or supplies normally provided without extra charge to other participants in the non-VA community-based provider's program.



---

[N] [76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]




