# § 5001.454   Guarantee fee.

The guarantee fee is a one-time, non-refundable fee paid by the lender to the Agency at or before loan closing and is required to be paid before the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee. The guarantee fee rate applied will be the rate as established in the _Federal Register_ for the fiscal year in which a guaranteed loan is obligated. The lender may pass the guarantee fee on to the borrower.




(a) *Guarantee fee calculation.* The one-time guarantee fee is calculated by multiplying the total loan amount by the percentage of guarantee by the guarantee fee rate, which may vary by program.


(b) *Guarantee fee rates.* The guarantee fee rate is established by the Agency in an annual document published in the _Federal Register._ While the fee rate may vary annually, they will not exceed the limits in table 1. Once the guarantee is obligated, the guarantee fee rate in effect at the time of obligation will remain in place even if the guarantee fee rate changes before the loan note guarantee is issued.




(c) *Loan note guarantee prior to completion.* If the loan note guarantee is issued prior to completion of the project's construction under § 5001.205(e)(2), an additional guarantee fee of 0.50 percent will be added.








(d) *Reduced fee.* Subject to annual limits set by the Agency and published in an annual _Federal Register_ document, the Agency may charge a reduced guarantee fee if requested by the lender when the borrower's project meets any one of the following criteria:


(1) Is located in a rural community that—


(i) Is a distressed community in accordance with the Economic Innovation Group distressed community index. The list can be found on the Agency's website at: *https://www.rd.usda.gov/onerdguarantee;*

(ii) Is experiencing long-term population decline according to the last three decennial censuses;


(iii) Is in a persistent poverty county. A persistent poverty county is any county that has had 20 percent or more of its population living in poverty over the past 30 years, as measured by the 1990 and 2000 decennial census and 2007-2011 American Community Survey 5-year average, or any territory or possession of the United States;


(iv) Is in a presidentially declared disaster area, declared within the 24 months preceding the date of the application, and is experiencing trauma as a result of natural disaster;


(v) Is located in a city, county, or state with an unemployment rate, as determined by the Department of Labor, 125 percent or greater of the current national rate; or


(vi) Is located within the boundaries of a federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation or within Tribal trust lands or within land owned by an Alaska Native Regional or Village Corporation as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.


(2) Processes, distributes, aggregates, stores, and/or markets locally or regionally produced agricultural food products and promotes access to healthy foods;


(3) Is locally owned and managed, and either


(i) Supports value-added agriculture and provides a market for locally or regionally produced agricultural food product; or


(ii) Produces a natural resource value-added product/manufactures a product from a natural resource.


(4) Is part of a strategic economic development and community development plan on a multi-jurisdictional and multi-sectoral basis in accordance with Section 6401 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-334); or


(5) Provides an additional market for existing local businesses by purchasing substantial amounts of products or services from, selling product to, or providing services to existing local and regional businesses. The additional market for existing local businesses means that the borrower uses industry clusters in the same community as a substantial part of their product manufacturing or service delivery, or the borrower is part of a product chain where they are a substantial part of another local business' product manufacturing or service delivery. The use of local janitorial or maintenance firms, for example, does not meet this criteria.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]








