# ยง 51.30   When does my state report which emissions data to EPA?

All states are required to report two basic types of emission inventories to the EPA: An every-year inventory; and a triennial inventory.


(a) *Every-year inventory.* See Tables 2a and 2b of Appendix A of this subpart for the specific data elements to report every year.


(1) All states are required to report every year the annual (12-month) emissions data described in ยง 51.15 from Type A (large) point sources, as defined in Table 1 of Appendix A of this subpart. The first every-year cycle inventory will be for the 2009 inventory year and must be submitted to the EPA within 12 months, *i.e.,* by December 31, 2010.


(2) In inventory years that fall under the triennial inventory requirements, the reporting required by the triennial inventory satisfies the every-year reporting requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.


(b) *Triennial inventory.* See Tables 2a and 2b to Appendix A of subpart A for the specific data elements that must be reported for the triennial inventories.


(1) All states are required to report for every third inventory year the annual (12-month) emissions data as described in ยง 51.15. The first triennial inventory will be for the 2011 inventory and must be submitted to the EPA within 12 months, *i.e.,* by December 31, 2012. Subsequent triennial inventories (2014, 2017, etc.) will be due 12 months after the end of the inventory year, *i.e.,* by December 31 of the following year.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [80 FR 8796, Feb. 19, 2015]




