# ยง 952.19   Subpoenas.

(a) *General.* Upon written request of either party filed with the Recorder or on his or her own initiative, the presiding officer may issue a subpoena requiring:


(1) *Testimony at a deposition.* The deposing of a witness in the city or county where the witness resides or is employed or transacts business in person, or at another location convenient for the witness that is specifically determined by the presiding officer;


(2) *Testimony at a hearing.* The attendance of a witness for the purpose of taking testimony at a hearing; and


(3) *Production of records.* The production by the witness at a deposition or hearing of records designated in the subpoena.


(b) *Voluntary cooperation.* Each party is expected:


(1) To cooperate and make available witnesses and evidence under its possession, custody or control as requested by the other party, without issuance of a subpoena, and


(2) To secure voluntary production of desired third-party records whenever possible.


(c) *Requests for subpoenas.* (1) A request for a subpoena shall to the extent practical be filed:


(i) At the same time a request for deposition is filed; or


(ii) Fifteen (15) days before a scheduled hearing where the attendance of a witness at a hearing is sought.


(2) A request for a subpoena shall state the reasonable scope and relevance to the case of the testimony and of any records sought.


(3) The presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, may honor requests for subpoenas not presented within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.


(d) *Motion to quash or modify.* (1) Upon written request by the person subpoenaed or by a party, the presiding officer may:


(i) Quash or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable, oppressive or for other good cause shown, or


(ii) Require the person in whose behalf the subpoena was issued to advance the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed records. Where circumstances require, the presiding officer may act upon such a request at any time after a copy has been served upon the opposing party.


(2) Motions to quash or modify a subpoena shall be filed within 10 days of service, or at least one day prior to any scheduled hearing, whichever first occurs. The presiding officer, in his or her sole discretion, may entertain motions to quash or modify not made within the time limitations specified in this paragraph.


(e) *Form; issuance.* (1) Every subpoena shall state the title of the proceeding, shall cite 39 U.S.C. 3016(a)(2) as the authority under which it is issued, and shall command each person to whom it is directed to attend and give testimony, and if appropriate, to produce specified records at a time and place therein specified. In issuing a subpoena to a requesting party, the presiding officer shall sign the subpoena and may, in his or her discretion, enter the name of the witness and otherwise leave it blank. The party to whom the subpoena is issued shall complete the subpoena before service.


(2) The party at whose instance a subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the payment of fees and mileage of the witness in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1821, or other applicable law, and of the officer who serves the subpoena. The failure to make payment of such charges on demand may be deemed by the presiding officer as sufficient ground for striking the testimony of the witness and the evidence the witness has produced.


(f)(1) *Service in general.* The party requesting issuance of a subpoena shall arrange for service.


(2) *Service within the United States.* A subpoena issued under this section may be served by a person designated under 18 U.S.C. 3061 or by a United States marshal or deputy marshal, or by any other person who is not a party and not less than 18 years of age at any place within the territorial jurisdiction of any court of the United States.


(3) *Service outside the United States.* Any such subpoena may be served upon any person who is not to be found within the territorial jurisdiction of any court of the United States, in such manner as the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure prescribe for service in a foreign country. To the extent that the courts of the United States may assert jurisdiction over such person consistent with due process, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia shall have the same jurisdiction to take any action respecting compliance with this section by such person that such court would have if such person were personally within the jurisdiction of such court.


(4) *Service on business persons.* Service of any such subpoena may be made upon a partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity by:


(i) Delivering a duly executed copy thereof to any partner, executive officer, managing agent, or general agent thereof, or to any agent thereof authorized by appointment or by law to receive service of process on behalf of such partnership, corporation, association, or entity;


(ii) Delivering a duly executed copy thereof to the principal office or place of business of the partnership, corporation, association, or entity; or


(iii) Depositing such copy in the United States mails, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, duly addressed to such partnership, corporation, association, or entity at its principal office or place of business.


(5) *Service on natural persons.* Service of any subpoena may be made upon any natural person by:


(i) Delivering a duly executed copy to the person to be served; or


(ii) Depositing such copy in the United States mails, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, duly addressed to such person at his or her residence or principal office or place of business.


(6) *Verified return.* A verified return by the individual serving any such subpoena setting forth the manner of such service shall constitute proof of service. In the case of service by registered or certified mail, such return shall be accompanied by the return post office receipt of delivery of such subpoena, or a statement of service by registered or certified mail in the event that receipt of delivery is unavailable.


(g) *Contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena.* In the case of refusal to obey a subpoena, the Judicial Officer may request the Attorney General to petition the district court for any district in which the person receiving the subpoena resides, is found, or conducts business (or in the case of a person outside the territorial jurisdiction of any district court, the district court for the District of Columbia) to issue an appropriate order for the enforcement of such subpoena. Any failure to obey such order of the court may be punishable as contempt.




