# ยง 53.156   Fees for modification requests.

(a) Fees will be charged for the processing of requests for parity, and for major and minor modifications of the terms of documents evidencing and securing direct and guaranteed loans. In accordance with the requirements of the User Charge Statute, 31 U.S.C. 9701(b), the Secretary determines the amount of the application fee that must be submitted with each type of modification. 


(1) As used in this section, a *request for parity* allows new debt to share lien position (*i.e.*, collateral) with an existing Hill-Burton loan. 


(2) As used in this section, a *major modification* is any modification involving the release of $100,000 or more of collateral; a corporate restructuring that involves a transfer of assets; master indenture requests; modifications to a sinking fund; defeasance requests and requests for additional secured indebtedness; and any, other modification that involves a comparably significant use of Department resources. 


(3) As used in this section, a *minor modification* is any modification involving the release of less than $100,000 of collateral; an easement; and any other modification that involves a comparable use of Department resources. 


(b) A request for modification is to be accompanied by a certified check or money order in the amount of the appropriate fee, payable to the U.S. Treasury. The fees for modification requests submitted on or after October 28, 1986 are as follows: 


(1) $1,500 for a minor modification, 


(2) $4,500 for a major modification, and 


(3) $5,500 for a request for parity. 


(c) A submitter may withdraw its request for modification within 10 business days following its receipt and receive a refund of the fee. 


(d) If the Secretary determines that a change in the amount of a fee is appropriate, the Department will issue a notice of proposed rulemaking in the _Federal Register_ to announce the proposed amount.



---

[N] [51 FR 39376, Oct. 28, 1986]




