# § 579.29   Manner of reporting.

(a) *Submission of reports.* (1) Except as provided in this paragraph, each report required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of §§ 579.21 through 579.26 of this part must be submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository identified on NHTSA's Internet homepage (*www.nhtsa.dot.gov*). A manufacturer must use templates provided at the early warning website, also identified on NHTSA's homepage, for submitting reports. For data files smaller than the size limit of the Internet e-mail server of the Department of Transportation, a manufacturer may submit a report as an attachment to an e-mail message to *odi.ewr@nhtsa.dot.gov,* using the same templates. 


(2) Each report required under § 579.27 of this part may be submitted to NHTSA's early warning data repository as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or by manually filling out an interactive form on NHTSA's early warning website. 


(3) For each report required under paragraphs (a) through (c) of §§ 579.21 through 579.26 of this part and submitted in the manner provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a manufacturer must state the make, model and model year of each motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment in terms that are identical to the statement of the make, model, model year of each motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment provided in the manufacturer's previous report.


(b) *Submission of documents.* A copy of each document required under paragraph (d) of §§ 579.21 through 579.26 of this part may be submitted in digital form using a graphic compression protocol, approved by NHTSA, to the NHTSA data repository, or as an attachment to an e-mail message, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Any digital image provided by a manufacturer shall be not less than 200 or more than 300 dpi (dots per inch) resolution. Such documents may also be submitted in paper form. Each document shall be identified in accordance with the templates provided at NHTSA's early warning Web site, which is identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(c) *Designation of manufacturer contacts.* Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer must provide the names, office telephone numbers, postal and street mailing addresses, and electronic mail addresses of two employees (one primary and one back-up) whom NHTSA may contact for resolving issues that may arise concerning the submission of information and documents required by this part. 


(d) *Manufacturer reporting identification and password.* Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer must request a manufacturer identification number and a password. 


(e) *Graphic compression protocol.* Not later than 30 days prior to the date of its first quarterly submission, each manufacturer which wishes to submit a copy of a document in digital form, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, must obtain approval from NHTSA for the use of such protocol. 


(f) Information and requests submitted under paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section shall be provided in writing to the Director, Office of Defects Investigation, NHTSA, Attention: Early Warning Division (NVS-217), 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590.



---

[N] [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 35145, June 11, 2003; 72 FR 32017, June 11, 2007; 74 FR 47758, Sept. 17, 2009]




