# § 762.148   Bankruptcy.

(a) *Lender responsibilities.* The lender must protect the guaranteed loan debt and all collateral securing the loan in bankruptcy proceedings. The lender's responsibilities include, but are not limited to:


(1) Filing a proof of claim where required and all the necessary papers and pleadings;


(2) Attending, and where necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and court proceedings;


(3) Protecting the collateral securing the guaranteed loan and resisting any adverse changes that may be made to the collateral;


(4) Seeking a dismissal of the bankruptcy proceeding when the operation as proposed by the borrower to the bankruptcy court is not feasible;


(5) When permitted by the bankruptcy code, requesting a modification of any plan of reorganization if it appears additional recoveries are likely.


(6) Monitor confirmed plans under chapters 11, 12 and 13 of the bankruptcy code to determine borrower compliance. If the borrower fails to comply, the lender will seek a dismissal of the reorganization plan; and


(7) Keeping the Agency regularly informed in writing on all aspects of the proceedings.


(i) The lender will submit a default status report when the borrower defaults and every 60 days until the default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid.


(ii) The default status report will be used to inform the Agency of the bankruptcy filing, the reorganization plan confirmation date and effective date, when the reorganization plan is complete, and when the borrower is not in compliance with the reorganization plan.


(b) *Bankruptcy expenses.* (1) Reorganization.


(i) Expenses, such as legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the lender as a direct result of the borrower's chapter 11, 12, or 13 reorganization, are covered under the guarantee, provided they are reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency.


(ii) Lender's in-house expenses, which are those expenses which would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee.


(2) Liquidation expenses in bankruptcy.


(i) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses may be deducted from the proceeds of the collateral in liquidation bankruptcy cases.


(ii) In-house expenses are not considered customary liquidation expenses, may not be deducted from collateral proceeds, and are not covered by the guarantee.


(c) *Estimated loss claims in reorganization*—(1) *At confirmation.* The lender may submit an estimated loss claim upon confirmation of the reorganization plan in accordance with the following:


(i) The estimated loss payment will cover the guaranteed percentage of the principal and accrued interest written off, plus any allowable costs incurred as of the effective date of the plan.


(ii) The lender will submit supporting documentation for the loss claim, and any additional information requested by the Agency, including justification for the legal fees included on the claim.


(iii) The estimated loss payment may be revised as consistent with a court-approved reorganization plan.


(iv) Protective advances made and approved in accordance with § 762.149 may be included in an estimated loss claim associated with a reorganization, if:


(A) They were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action prior to bankruptcy filing; or


(B) The advance is required to provide repairs, insurance, etc. to protect the collateral as a result of delays in the case, or failure of the borrower to maintain the security.


(2) Interest only losses. The lender may submit an estimated loss claim for interest only after confirmation of the reorganization plan in accordance with the following:


(i) The loss claims may cover interest losses sustained as a result of a court-ordered, permanent interest rate reduction.


(ii) The loss claims will be processed annually on the anniversary date of the effective date of the reorganization plan.


(iii) If the borrower performs under the terms of the reorganization plan, annual interest reduction loss claims will be submitted on or near the same date, beyond the period of the reorganization plan.


(3) Actual loss.


(i) Once the reorganization plan is complete, the lender will provide the Agency with documentation of the actual loss sustained.


(ii) If the actual loss sustained is greater than the prior estimated loss payment, the lender may submit a revised estimated loss claim to obtain payment of the additional amount owed by the Agency under the guarantee.


(iii) If the actual loss is less than the prior estimated loss, the lender will reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the note rate from the date of the payment of the estimated loss.


(4) Payment to holder. In reorganization bankruptcy, if a holder makes demand upon the Agency, the Agency will pay the holder interest to the plan's effective date. Accruing interest thereafter will be based upon the provisions of the reorganization plan.


(d) *Liquidation under the bankruptcy code.* (1) Upon receipt of notification that a borrower has filed for protection under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, or a liquidation plan under chapter 11, the lender must proceed according to the liquidation procedures of this part.


(2) If the property is abandoned by the trustee, the lender will conduct the liquidation according to § 762.149.


(3) Proceeds received from partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs, such as freight, labor and sales commissions, associated with the partial sale. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim in accordance with § 762.149(i)(4).



---

[N] [64 FR 7378, Feb. 12, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 43957, Aug. 3, 2006; 73 FR 32637, June 10, 2008; 75 FR 54014, Sept. 3, 2010]




