# § 1512.6   Requirements for steering system.

(a) *Handlebar stem insertion mark.* Quill-type handlebar stems shall contain a permanent ring or mark which clearly indicates the minimum insertion depth of the handlebar stem into the fork assembly. The insertion mark shall not affect the structural integrity of the stem and shall not be less than 2
1/2 times the stem diameter from the lowest point of the stem. The stem strength shall be maintained for at least a length of one shaft diameter below the mark.


(b) *Handlebar stem strength.* The handlebar stem shall be tested for strength in accordance with the handlebar stem test, § 1512.18(g), and shall withstand a force of 2000 N (450 lbf) for bicycles and 1000 N (225 lbf) for sidewalk bicycles.


(c) *Handlebar.* Handlebars shall allow comfortable and safe control of the bicycle. Handlebar ends shall be symmetrically located with respect to the longitudinal axis of the bicycle and no more than 406 mm (16 in) above the seat surface when the seat is in its lowest position and the handlebar ends are in their highest position. This requirement does not apply to recumbent bicycles.


(d) *Handlebar ends.* The ends of the handlebars shall be capped or otherwise covered. Handgrips, end plugs, control shifters, or other end-mounted devices shall be secure against a removal force of no less than 66.8 N (15 lbf) in accordance with the protective cap and end-mounted devices test, § 1512.18(c).


(e) *Handlebar and clamps.* The handlebar and clamps shall be tested in accordance with the handlebar test, § 1512.18(h). Directions for assembly of the bicycle required in the instruction manual by § 1512.19(a)(2) shall include an explicit warning about the danger of damaging the stem-to-fork assembly and the risk of injury to the rider that can result from overtightening the stem bolt or other clamping device. The directions for assembly shall also contain a simple, clear, and precise statement of the procedure to be followed to avoid damaging the stem-to-fork assembly when tightening the stem bolt or other clamping device.



---

[N] [43 FR 60034, Dec. 22, 1978, as amended at 76 FR 27888, May 13, 2011]




