# ยง 11.4   Use of government dams for pumped storage projects, and use of tribal lands.

(a) *General Rule.* The Commission will determine on a case-by-case basis under section 10(e) of the Federal Power Act the annual charges for any pumped storage project using a Government dam or other structure and for any project using tribal lands within Indian reservations.


(b) *Information reporting.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section a Licensee whose project includes pumped storage facilities must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a sworn statement showing the gross amount of energy generated during the preceding fiscal year, and the amount of energy provided free of charge to the Government, and the amount of energy used for pumped storage pumping. 


(2) A licensee who has filed these data under another section of part 11 or who has submitted identical data with FERC or the Energy Information Administration for the same fiscal year is not required to file the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Referenced filings should be identified by company name, date filed, docket or project number, and form number. 


(c) Commencing in 1993, the annual charges for any project using tribal land within Indian reservations will be billed during the fiscal year in which the land is used, for the use of that land during that year.



---

[N] [Order 379, 49 FR 22778, June 1, 1984. Redesignated at 51 FR 24318, July 3, 1986; Order 469, 52 FR 18209, May 14, 1987; 52 FR 33802, Sept. 8, 1987; Order 551, 58 FR 15770, Mar. 24, 1993]




