# § 207.275   McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River navigation system: use, administration, and navigation.

(a) *Applicability of regulations.* These regulations apply to all locks and appurtenant structures, wharves, and other Corps of Engineers structures in the following waterways: The White River between Mississippi River and Arkansas Post Canal, Arkansas; Arkansas Post Canal, Arkansas; Arkansas River between Dam No. 2, Arkansas, and Verdigris River, Oklahoma; Verdigris River between Arkansas River and Catoosa, Oklahoma; and reservoirs on these waterways between Mississippi River, Arkansas, and Catoosa, Oklahoma.


(b) *Authority of district engineers.* The use, administration, and navigation of the structures to which this section applies shall be under the direction of the officers of the Army Corps of Engineers, detailed in charge of the respective districts, and their authorized assistants. The cities in which these district engineers are located, and the limits of their jurisdictions, are as follows:


(1) *District Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer District, Little Rock, Arkansas.* From Mississippi River, Arkansas, to Arkansas-Oklahoma State line at Fort Smith, Arkansas.


(2) *District Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer District, Tulsa, Oklahoma.* From Arkansas-Oklahoma State line at Fort Smith, Arkansas, to Catoosa, Oklahoma.


(c) *Authority of lockmasters.* The lockmaster shall be charge with the immediate control and management of the lock and of the area set aside as the lock area. The lockmaster shall ensure that all laws, rules, and regulations for the use of the lock and lock area are duly complied with, to which end he/she is authorized to give all necessary orders and directions both to employees of the Government and to any person within the limits of the lock area, whether navigating the lock or not. No one shall cause any movement of any vessel or other floating thing in the lock area except by or under the direction of the lockmaster. Failure to comply with directions given by the lockmaster pursuant to the regulations in this section may result in refusal of lockage. For the purpose of the regulations in this section, the “lock area” is considered to be between the upstream and downstream arrival points. The district engineer may extend the limits of the lock area consistent with the safe and efficient use of the waterway.


(d) *Precedence at locks.* (1) Precedence shall be given to vessels owned by the United States, licensed commercial passenger vessels operating on a published schedule or regularly operating in the “for hire” trade, commercial tows, rafts, and pleasure craft, in the order named. Precedence being equal, the first vessel to arrive at a lock will normally be the first to lock through; however, the lockmaster may depart from this procedure to achieve optimum utilization of the lock or in accordance with the order of precedence stated above and in paragraphs (d)(2) and (h) of this section. Arrival points have been established ashore upstream and downstream of the locks. Vessels arriving at these markers or the mooring cells immediately upstream and downstream of the lock will be considered as having arrived at the lock within the meaning of this subparagraph.


(2) Vessels or tows, with overall dimensions greater than 105 feet wide or 595 feet long may transit the lock at such time as the lockmaster determines that they will neither unduly delay the transit of craft of lesser dimensions, nor endanger the lock structure and appurtenances because of wind, current, or other adverse conditions. These craft are also subject to such special handling requirements as the lockmaster deems necessary at the time of transit.


(e) *Safety rules for vessels using navigation locks.* (1) Leaking vessels may be excluded from the locks.


(2) Smoking, open flames, and activities capable of producing a flammable atmosphere such as painting will not be permitted in the lock chamber.


(3) All deckhands handling lines during locking procedures shall wear a personal flotation device.


(f) *Dangerous cargo barges.* The following rules are prescribed for all tows containing dangerous cargoes as defined in Title 46, Code of Federal Regulations. These rules are applicable to both loaded barges and empty barges.


(1) All hatches on barges used to transport dangerous cargoes shall be closed before the tow enters the lock area.


(2) Prior to entering the lock area, towboat pilots shall furnish the name of product, the source of shipment, the company which made the shipment, and the consignee. If a towboat is not equipped with a radio or its radio is out of service, pilots shall furnish this information to the lockmaster while the tow is in the lock chamber. The shipping papers required by title 46, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be available for review by the lockmaster. Lockage shall be refused when this information is not furnished to the lockmaster.


(3) Fenders shall be water-soaked or otherwise spark proofed.


(4) Smoking, open flames, chipping, or other spark producing activity are prohibited in the “lock area.”


(5) Simultaneous lockage of other vessels with vessels carrying dangerous cargoes or containing flammable vapors shall normally not be permitted. if significant delays are occurring at a lock, such simultaneous lockages, except with pleasure craft, may be permitted by the lockmaster, when he/she determines such action safe and appropriate, provided:


(i) The first vessel entering or the last vessel exiting shall be secured before the other enters or leaves.


(ii) All masters involved have agreed to the joint use of the lock.


(g) *General locking procedures.* (1) In case two or more boats or tows are to enter for the same lockage, their order of entry and exit shall be determined by the lockmaster.


(2) Tows entering a lock shall come to a complete stop at a point designated by the district engineer before proceeding to the mooring position.


(3) When entering or exiting locks, tow speeds shall not exceed 200 feet per minute (rate of slow walk) or the rate of travel whereby the tow can be stopped by checking should mechanical difficulties develop. When navigating over Norrell Dam during high water, vessels shall reduce speed to the minimum necessary to maintain steerageway. Pilots should check with the individual lockmasters concerning prevailing conditions. It is also recommended that pilots check their ability to reverse their engines prior to beginning an approach. Towboat engines shall not be turned off in the lock unless authorized by lockmaster.


(4) The sides and ends of all vessels passing through any lock shall be free from protrusions of any kind which might damage the lock structure.


(5) All vessels shall be provided with suitable fenders. When entering and exiting locks, one deckhand, or more if the lockmaster so directs, shall be stationed at the bow and stern of tows. These deckhands shall maintain their stations while tows are moving adjacent to any part of a lock. They shall protect the lock walls by the use of hand-held fenders. In all cases, two deckhands shall be stationed at the bows of tows 100 feet wide or wider when entering locks. They shall remain at their stations until the bows of such tows pass the recessed miter gates.


(6) Masters and pilots must use every precaution to prevent unnecessary delay in entering or leaving locks. Vessels failing to enter locks with reasonable promptness when signaled to do so shall lose their turn. Rearranging or switching of barges in the locks or in approaches is prohibited unless approved or directed by the lockmaster.


(7) No vessel shall enter a lock unless its draft is at least two feet less than the least depth of water over the sills. Information concerning controlling depth over sills can be obtained from the lockmaster at each lock or by inquiry at the office of the district engineer of the district in which the lock is located.


(8) Vessels awaiting their turn to lock shall be positioned so that they will not interfere with vessels leaving the lock. However, to the extent practicable under the prevailing conditions, vessels and tows shall be positioned so as to minimize approach time.


(9) *Number of lockages.* (i) Tows or rafts locking in sections will generally be allowed only two consecutive lockages if other vessels are waiting lockage, but may be allowed more in special cases. No part of a tow shall pass a lock until the whole of the one preceding it shall have passed. The lockmaster may prescribe a departure from the normal order of precedence to achieve the best lock utilization.


(ii) One deckhand, or more if the lockmaster so directs, shall tend the lines at the bow and stern of each section of a tow that transits a lock or moors to the river walls.


(10) Vessels shall enter and leave locks under such control as to prevent any damage to the walls and gates.


(11) Placing or discharging refuse of any description into the lock, on the lock walls, on the esplanade, or on any other government property is prohibited.


(h) *Lockage of pleasure craft.* In order to fully utilize the capacity of the lock, lockmasters may expedite the lockage of pleasure craft by locking them through with commercial vessels, except vessels carrying volatile cargoes or other substances likely to emit toxic, flammable, or explosive vapors. If the lockage of pleasure craft cannot be accomplished within the time required for three single lockages, a separate lockage of pleasure craft shall be made. Pleasure craft operators are advised that the locks have a pull chain located at the end of each river wall which signals the lockmaster that lockage is desired.


(i) *Locking rafts and floating dredge discharge line.* While awaiting lockage, rafts and tows containing floating dredge discharge line shall not obstruct the lock approaches. They shall be properly and securely assembled to assure adequate control while entering and exiting locks. The passage of loose logs through a lock is prohibited. Lockage will be refused to rafts unless the logs float sufficiently high to make it evident that the raft will not sink.


(j) *Mooring*—(1) *At locks.* (i) When in the locks, all vessels shall be moored as directed by the lockmaster. Vessels shall be moored with bow and stern lines leading in opposite directions to prevent the vessel from “running” in the lock. All vessels will have one additional line available on the head of the tow for emergency use. The pilot of a vessel shall remain at his station in the pilot house and the deckhands shall stand by the mooring lines during the entire locking procedure. When the vessel is securely moored, the pilot shall not cause movement of the propeller except in an emergency or unless directed by the lockmaster. Tying to lock ladders is strictly prohibited.


(ii) Mooring of any vessel will not be permitted at or between the arrival points without permission of the lockmaster.


(2) *Outside of locks.* (i) Vessels over 40 feet in length shall not land or anchor against revetted banks without written permission of the district engineer, except in case of emergency. When an emergency landing is necessary, adjacent locks shall be notified. In all cases, every precaution to avoid damage to the revetment works shall be exercised. The construction of log rafts along mattressed or paved banks or the tying up and landing of log rafts against such banks require the permission of the district engineer.


(ii) Government mooring facilities at the junction of main stem and secondary channels are to provide temporary mooring for tows awaiting transfer of barges to or from ports, docks, or fleeting areas located on the secondary channels. These facilities shall not be used for storage of barges or fleeting activities. The maximum permissible time of mooring at the facilities shall be determined by the district engineer.


(k) *Locking signals.* Vessels must approach the locks with caution and not enter or leave the locks until signaled to do so by the lockmaster.


(1) *Signal by radio.* Requests for lockage by radio will be the primary signal for vessels equipped with VHF-FM radios operating in the FCC authorized Maritime Band. District engineers will advise all known interested parties of the channels available for use in communicating with the locks. Pilots of commercial tows should contact the locks at least one-half hour before arrival in order that they may be informed of current river and traffic conditions that may affect the safe passage of their tows.


(2) *Sound signals.* In addition to radio communication, the following sound signals are prescribed for use during lockage. Sound signals given by vessels and locks shall be given by means of a horn. The term prolonged blast means a blast of from four to six second's duration. The term short blast means a blast of about one second's duration.


(i) Vessels desiring a single lockage shall give notice to the lockmaster by one prolonged blast of the horn followed by one short blast. If a double lockage is required, vessels shall give one prolonged blast of the horn followed by two short blasts. These signals are not required from pleasure craft not equipped with horns. Locking procedures for pleasure craft are prescribed in paragraph (h).


(ii) When the lock is ready for entrance, the lockmaster shall give one prolonged blast of the horn to signal permission to enter the lock chamber.


(iii) The lockmaster shall give permission to leave the lock chamber by one short blast of the horn.


(iv) Five or more short and rapid blasts of the lock horn will be used as a means of attracting attention, to indicate caution, or to signal danger. This signal will be used to attract the attention of the masters and crews of vessels using the lock or navigating in the lock area and to indicate that something unusual involving danger or requiring special caution is happening or is about to happen. When this signal is given by the lockmaster, the masters and crews of vessels in the vicinity shall immediately become alert to determine the reason for the signal and shall take the necessary steps to cope with the situation.


(3) *Visual signals.* Signal lights are displayed outside each lock gate to supplement the radio and sound signals. Vessels will be governed as follows:


(i) One flashing green light to indicate that the lock is open to approaching navigation.


(ii) One flashing red light to indicate that the lock is not open to approaching navigation. Vessels shall stand clear.


(iii) Flashing amber and green lights to indicate that one or both lock gates can not be fully recessed or other unusual conditions exist. Vessels can enter the lock with caution.


(iv) In the absence of any of the above visual signals, pilots shall signal for lockage by radio or horn and wait for the lockmaster to acknowledge their signal.


(l) *Navigation lights on locks and dams.* (1) The following navigation lights will be displayed at all locks except Norrell Lock and Lock No. 2 during hours of darkness and heavy fog.


(i) Three green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.


(ii) Two green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.


(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the ends of the upstream and downstream land walls.


(2) The following navigation lights will be displayed at Lock No. 2 during hours of darkness and heavy fog. They shall also be displayed at Norrell Lock during hours of darkness and heavy fog except when navigation is passing over the dam.


(i) Three green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.


(ii) Two green lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.


(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the dolphin located furthest upstream in line with the land wall and on the dolphin located furthest downstream in line with the land wall.


(3) The following navigation lights will be displayed at Norrell Lock and Dam during hours of darkness and heavy fog when navigation is passing over the dam. During daylight hours a yellow and black disc will be displayed on each end (upstream and downstream) of the river wall to signal navigation over the dam.


(i) Three red lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the upstream river wall.


(ii) Two red lights visible through an arc of 360 degrees arranged in a vertical line on the end of the downstream river wall.


(iii) A single red light visible through an arc of 360 degrees on the dolphin located furthest upstream in line with the land wall and on the dolphin located furthest downstream in line with the land wall.


(iv) A single, flashing blue light visible through an arc of 360 degrees located on the end of the dam opposite the lock.


(m) *Restricted areas at locks and dams.* All waters immediately above and below each dam, as posted by the respective district engineers, are hereby designated as restricted areas. No vessel or other floating craft shall enter any such restricted area without permission of the lockmaster. The limits of the restricted areas at each dam will be determined by the responsible district engineer and marked by signs installed in conspicuous and appropriate locations.


(n) *Trespass on lock and dam property.* (1) Trespass on locks or dams or other United States property pertaining to the locks or dams is strictly prohibited except in those areas specifically permitted by the lockmaster. Any person committing a willful injury to any United States property or personnel will be prosecuted.


(2) No fishing will be permitted from the lock or dam structures.


(3) No one but employees of the United States shall move any lock machinery unless directed by the lockmaster. Tampering or meddling with the machinery or other parts of the lock is strictly forbidden.


(o) *Repair and construction of navigation structures.* To avoid damage to plant and structures connected with the construction or repair of locks and dams, vessels passing structures in the process of construction or repair shall reduce their speed and navigate with special caution while in the vicinity of such work.


(p) *Reporting the navigation incidents.* In furtherance of maintaining navigation safety the following rules are prescribed for all navigation interests:


(1) Any incident resulting in uncontrolled barges shall immediately be reported to the nearest lock and the appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Office. The report shall include information as to the number of loose barges, their cargo, and the time and location where they broke loose. The lockmaster shall be kept informed of the progress being made in bringing the barges under control so that he/she can initiate whatever actions may be warranted.


(2) Masters, owners, or other persons using the waterways to which the regulations in this section apply shall report to the nearest lockmaster or the district engineer by the most expeditious means available all marine accidents; such as fire, collision, sinking, or grounding, where there is possible obstruction of the channel or interference with navigation; furnishing a clear statement as to the name, address, and ownership of the vessel or vessels involved; the time and place; and the action taken. In all cases, the owner of a sunken vessel shall take immediate steps to mark the wreck properly.


(i) Sunken or sinking barges shall be reported to the nearest lock both downstream and upstream of the location in order that traffic passing those points may be advised of the hazards. The appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Office shall also be notified.


(ii) Whenever it is necessary to report an incident involving uncontrolled, sunken or sinking barges, the cargo in the barges shall be precisely identified.


(iii) The owners or masters of vessels sunk in the navigable waters of the United States shall provide the appropriate district engineer with a copy of the sunken vessel report furnished to the appropriate U.S. Coast Guard Marine Inspection Office.


(q) [Reserved]


(r) *Liability for damage.* This section shall not affect the liability of the owners and operators of vessels for any damage caused by their operations. Should any Government property be damaged as the result of the operation of a vessel, the master of the vessel shall report the accident to the nearest lockmaster or the appropriate district engineer.


(s) *Persistent violation of regulations.* If the owner or operator of any vessel persistently violates the regulations of this section or any orders given in pursuance thereof, after due notice of same, lockage may be refused by the district engineer. The lockmaster may refuse lockage if deemed necessary to protect government property in the vicinity of the lock.


(t) *Vessels to carry regulations.* A copy of these regulations shall be kept at all times on board each commercial vessel engaged in navigating the waterway. Copies may be obtained from any lock or district engineer's office on request. Masters of such vessels are also required to have on board current copies of the navigation charts and applicable Notices to Navigation Interest.



---

[N] [51 FR 30639, Aug. 28, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 13765, Apr. 4, 1991]




