# ยง 1007.5   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part: 


*Department of Hawaiian Home Lands (DHHL)* means the agency or department of the government of the State of Hawaii that is responsible for the administration of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 108 *et seq.*). 


*Eligible entity* means a Native Hawaiian family, the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, and private nonprofit or private for-profit organizations experienced in the planning and development of affordable housing for Native Hawaiians. 


*Family* means one or more persons maintaining a household, and includes, but is not limited to, a family with or without children, an elderly family, a near-elderly family, a disabled family, or a single person. 


*Guarantee Fund* means the Native Hawaiian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund under this part. 


*Hawaiian Home Lands* means lands that: 


(1) Have the status of Hawaiian Home Lands under section 204 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act (42 Stat. 110); or 


(2) Are acquired pursuant to that Act. 


*HUD* means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 


*Native Hawaiian* means any individual who is: 


(1) A citizen of the United States; and 


(2) A descendant of the aboriginal people, who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that currently constitutes the State of Hawaii, as evidenced by: 


(i) Genealogical records; 


(ii) Verification by kupuna (elders) or kama'aina (long-term community residents); or 


(iii) Birth records of the State of Hawaii. 


*Native Hawaiian family* means a family with at least one member who is a Native Hawaiian. 


*Office of Hawaiian Affairs* means the entity of that name established under the constitution of the State of Hawaii. 




