# § 683.120   How are Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act title I formula funds allocated to local areas?

(a) *General.* The Governor must allocate WIOA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers in accordance with secs. 128 and 133 of WIOA and this section.


(1) State WDBs must assist Governors in the development of any youth or adult discretionary within-State allocation formulas.


(2) Within-State allocations must be made:


(i) In accordance with the allocation formulas contained in secs. 128(b) and 133(b) of WIOA and in the State Plan;


(ii) After consultation with chief elected officials and Local WDBs in each of the local areas; and


(iii) In accordance with sec. 182(e) of WIOA, available to local areas not later than 30 days after the date funds are made available to the State or 7 days after the date the local plan for the area is approved, whichever is later.


(b) *State reserve.* Of the WIOA formula funds allotted for services to youth, adults and dislocated workers, the Governor must reserve not more than 15 percent of the funds from each of these sources to carry out statewide activities. Funds reserved under this paragraph may be combined and spent on statewide activities under WIOA sec. 129(b) and statewide employment and training activities under WIOA sec. 134(a), for adults and dislocated workers, and youth activities, as described in §§ 682.200 and 682.210 of this chapter, without regard to the funding source of the reserved funds.


(c) *Youth allocation formula.* (1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary allocation formula described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the remainder of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated:


(i) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each local area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in all areas of substantial unemployment in the State;


(ii) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each local area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and


(iii) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged youth in each local area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged youth in the State except for local areas as described in sec. 107(c)(1)(C) of WIOA where the allotment must be based on the greater of either the number of individuals aged 16 to 21 in families with an income below the low-income level for the area or the number of disadvantaged youth in the area.


(2) *Discretionary youth allocation formula.* In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the State may allocate youth funds under a discretionary formula. Under this discretionary formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of youth funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section on the basis of the formula in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:


(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) relating to:


(A) Excess youth poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and


(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and


(ii) Was developed by the State WDB and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State Plan.


(d) *Adult allocation formula.* (1) Unless the Governor elects to distribute funds in accordance with the discretionary allocation formula described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the remainder of adult funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated:


(i) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in each local area, compared to the total number of unemployed individuals in areas of substantial unemployment in the State;


(ii) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative excess number of unemployed individuals in each local area, compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in the State; and


(iii) 33
1/3 percent on the basis of the relative number of disadvantaged adults in each local area, compared to the total number of disadvantaged adults in the State. Except for local areas as described in sec. 107(c)(1)(C) of WIOA where the allotment must be based on the higher of either the number of adults with an income below the low-income level for the area or the number of disadvantaged adults in the area.


(2) *Discretionary adult allocation formula.* In lieu of making the formula allocation described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the State may allocate adult funds under a discretionary formula, Under this discretionary formula, the State must allocate a minimum of 70 percent of adult funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section on the basis of the formula in paragraph (d)(1), and may allocate up to 30 percent on the basis of a formula that:


(i) Incorporates additional factors (other than the factors described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) relating to:


(A) Excess poverty in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and


(B) Excess unemployment above the State average in urban, rural and suburban local areas; and


(ii) Was developed by the State WDB and approved by the Secretary of Labor as part of the State Plan.


(e) *Dislocated worker allocation formula.* (1) The remainder of dislocated worker funds not reserved under paragraph (b) of this section must be allocated on the basis of a formula prescribed by the Governor that distributes funds in a manner that addresses the State's dislocated worker needs. Funds so distributed must not be less than 60 percent of the State's formula allotment.


(2) The Governor's dislocated worker formula must use the most appropriate information available to the Governor, including information on:


(i) Insured unemployment data;


(ii) Unemployment concentrations;


(iii) Plant closings and mass layoff data;


(iv) Declining industries data;


(v) Farmer-rancher economic hardship data; and


(vi) Long-term unemployment data.


(3) The Governor may not amend the dislocated worker formula more than once for any program year.


(f) *Rapid response.* (1) Of the WIOA formula funds allotted for services to dislocated workers in sec. 132(b)(2)(B) of WIOA, the Governor must reserve not more than 25 percent of the funds for statewide rapid response activities described in WIOA sec. 134(a)(2)(A) and §§ 682.300 through 682.370 of this chapter.


(2) *Unobligated funds.* Funds reserved by a Governor for rapid response activities under sec. 133(a)(2) of WIOA, and sec. 133(a)(2) of the Workforce Investment Act (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of WIOA), to carry out sec. 134(a)(2)(A) of WIOA that remain unobligated after the first program year for which the funds were allotted, may be used by the Governor to carry out statewide activities authorized under paragraph (b) of this section and §§ 682.200 and 682.210 of this chapter.


(g) *Special rule.* For the purpose of the formula in paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1) of this section, the State must, as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of disadvantaged youth and disadvantaged adults.




