# § 1075.101   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.


*Bureau enforcement action* means any judicial or administrative action or proceeding in which the Bureau has obtained relief with respect to a violation.


*Chief Financial Officer* means the Chief Financial Officer of the Bureau or any Bureau employee to whom that officer has delegated authority to act under this part. In the absence of a Chief Financial Officer of the Bureau, the Director shall designate an alternative official of the Bureau to perform the functions of the Chief Financial Officer under this part.


*Civil Penalty Fund* means the Consumer Financial Civil Penalty Fund established by 12 U.S.C. 5497(d).


*Civil Penalty Fund Governance Board* means the body, comprised of senior Bureau officials, established by the Director of the Bureau to advise on matters relating to the Civil Penalty Fund.


*Class of victims* means a group of similarly situated victims who suffered harm from the same or similar violations for which the Bureau obtained relief in a Bureau enforcement action.


*Defendant* means a party in a Bureau enforcement action that is found or alleged to have committed a violation.


*Final order* means a consent order or settlement issued by a court or by the Bureau, or an appealable order issued by a court or by the Bureau as to which the time for filing an appeal has expired and no appeals are pending. For purposes of this definition, “appeals” include petitions for reconsideration, review, rehearing, and certiorari.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.


*Redress* means any amounts—including but not limited to restitution, refunds, and damages—that a final order requires a defendant:


(1) To distribute, credit, or otherwise pay to those harmed by a violation; or


(2) To pay to the Bureau or another intermediary for distribution to those harmed by the violation.


*Victim* means a person harmed as a result of a violation.


*Violation* means any act or omission that constitutes a violation of law for which the Bureau is authorized to obtain relief pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5565(a).




