# § 1402.4   Requirements to provide performance and technical data by labeling and instructions.

(a) *Notice to purchasers.* Manufacturers of CB base station antennas, TV antennas, and antenna supporting structures shall give notification of performance and technical data related to performance and safety to prospective purchasers of such products at the time of original purchase and to the first purchaser of such product for purposes other than resale, in the manner set forth below.


(1) *Antennas.* CB base station antennas and TV antennas shall be provided with the following:


(i) *Label.* (A) The antenna shall bear the label shown in fig. 1 so that the label will be conspicuous to the installer during installation.


(B) If pipe or tubular nontelescoping masts are a suitable supporting structure for the antenna, a separate label as shown in fig. 1 shall accompany the antenna. The label shall be suitable for mounting by the consumer on such a mast.


(C) The label in figure 1 shall be made and attached in such a manner that it will be legible for an average expected life of at least 3 years.


(D) The word “product” may be substituted for “antenna” in the label of fig. 1.


(E)(*1*) The colors in figure 1 shall conform to ANSI Standard Z53.1-1971, “Safety Color Code for Marking Physical Hazards,” published in 1971 by the American National Standards Institute, which is incorporated by reference. Copies of this document are available from the American National Standards Institute, 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. This standard is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the edition which has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which has been filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Alternatively, the colors “red” and “yellow” in figure 1 may conform to Color Tolerance Charts, published by the Department of Transportation. Copies of the Color Tolerance Charts are available from the Office of Hazardous Materials, Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(*2*) Color limit values shall be determined by ASTM D 1535-68, “Specifying Color by the Munsell System,” published in 1968 by the American Society for Testing and Materials. Copies of ASTM D 1535-68 are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. These materials are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register. These materials are incorporated as they exist in the edition which has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register and which has been filed with the Office of the Federal Register. Alternatively, color limit values for red or yellow may be determined by the Department of Transportation Color Tolerance Charts, which display the desired color within the tolerance limits.


(ii) *Instructions.* CB base station antennas and TV antennas shall be accompanied by instructions that include the following:


(A) The following warning statement, placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the instructions and at the beginning of the body of the instructions: “WARNING: INSTALLATION OF THIS PRODUCT NEAR POWERLINES IS DANGEROUS. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS”. This statement shall be legible and conspicuous and shall be in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, or similar designations, and that is preferably no smaller than 10 point type.


(B) The information set forth below, which shall be in a part of the instructions that is conspicuously identified as containing information concerning the risk of electrocution caused by contact with powerlines. No particular wording is required for this information, but it shall be in legible English and readily understandable to a user with a sixth grade reading ability (other languages may be included as appropriate).


(*1*) An explanation of the risk of electrocution caused by contacting powerlines while putting up or taking down the antenna.


(*2*) An identification of the generally available types and sizes of antenna supporting structures that are suitable for use with the antenna. If a generally available type or size of supporting structure is not identified as suitable, an explanation of why it is not suitable shall be included.


(*3*) If pipe or tubular non-telescoping masts are a suitable supporting structure for the antenna, the instructions shall contain the following in relation to installation of the antenna on such masts:


(*i*) How to select and measure the installation site.


(*ii*) An explanation (pictorial where appropriate) of methods that can be used to reduce the possibility of contact with powerlines when putting up and taking down the antenna mast.


(*iii*) Instructions for properly attaching the separate label that is required to accompany the antenna by paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.


(*iv*) A statement that if the supporting structure to be used with the antenna does not have a label of the type provided by the manufacturer, the provided label should be attached to the base of the supporting structure by the installer.


(2) *Antenna supporting structures.* Antenna supporting structures, except pipe or tubular nontelescoping mast sections less than 11 ft. (335 cm.) in length that are not individually packaged or otherwise contained in a package intended for distribution to the consumer, shall comply with the following requirements:


(i) *Label.* (A) Antenna supporting structures shall bear the label shown in fig. 1, which shall be legible for an average expected life of at least 3 years. The label shall be attached so that it is conspicuous during installation and is 3 to 5 ft. (91 to 152 cm.) from the base of the supporting structure.


(B) The word “product” may be substituted for “antenna” in the label, as may “tower”, “tripod”, or other term, if it accurately describes the supporting structure.


(ii) *Instructions.* Antenna supporting structures shall be accompanied by instructions that include the following:


(A) The following warning statement, placed on the first page of the document(s) containing the instructions and at the beginning of the body of the instructions: “WARNING: INSTALLATION OF THIS PRODUCT NEAR POWERLINES IS DANGEROUS. FOR YOUR SAFETY, FOLLOW THE INSTALLATION DIRECTIONS.” This statement shall be legible and conspicuous and shall be in type that is at least as large as the largest type used on the remainder of the page, with the exception of the logo and any identification of the manufacturer, brand, model, and similar designations, and that is preferably no smaller than 10 point type.


(B) The information set forth below, which shall be in a part of the instructions that is conspicuously identified as containing information concerning the risk of electrocution caused by contact with powerlines. No particular wording is required for this information, but it shall be in legible English and understandable to a user with a sixth grade reading ability (other languages may be included as appropriate).


(*1*) An explanation of the risk of electrocution caused by contacting powerlines while putting up or taking down the supporting structure.


(*2*) How to select and measure the installation site.


(*3*) An explanation (pictorial where appropriate) of methods that can be used to reduce the possibility of contact with powerlines when putting up and taking down the supporting structure.


(3) *Packaging.* (i) The following warning statement shall legibly and conspicuously appear on either the packaging or the parts container of any CB base station antenna, TV antenna, or antenna supporting structure: “Warning: Installation of this product near powerlines is dangerous. For your safety, follow the enclosed installation directions.”


(b) *Data provided to the Commission.* (1) Manufacturers of CB base station antennas, TV antennas, and antenna supporting structures shall provide to the Commission samples of all the labels, warning statements, and instructions which will be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. These samples shall be provided to the Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Md. 20207, by October 27, 1978, or, in the event of a subsequent change in the warning statements or instructions or if a new product is introduced, within 30 days after the change or introduction.


(2) Manufacturers need not submit a separate sample for each model of antenna or supporting structure where different models use the same label and warning statement and where the portion of the instructions required by this part is the same for the different models (even though the remainder of the instructions may be different for each model). Changes in instructions which do not affect the portions of the instructions required by this part do not require the submission of additional samples.


(3) The reporting requirement contained in this section has been approved by the U.S. General Accounting Office under No. B-180232 (R0555).



---

[N] [43 FR 28392, June 29, 1978, as amended at 43 FR 47722, Oct. 17, 1978; 46 FR 63250, Dec. 31, 1981; 62 FR 46667, Sept. 4, 1997]




