# § 128.202   Who does SBA consider to own a VOSB or SDVOSB?

To qualify as a VOSB, one or more veterans must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. To qualify as a SDVOSB, one or more service-disabled veterans must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern.


(a) *Direct ownership.* To be considered direct ownership, the qualifying veteran must own 51 percent of the concern directly, and not through another business entity or trust (including an ESOP). However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be considered direct ownership where the trust is revocable, and qualifying veterans are the grantors, trustees, and the current beneficiaries of the trust.


(b) *Unconditional ownership.* To be considered unconditional, ownership must not be subject to any conditions, executory agreements, voting trusts, restrictions on or assignments of voting rights, or other arrangements causing or potentially causing ownership benefits to go to another (other than after death or incapacity).


(1) The pledge or encumbrance of stock or other ownership interest as collateral, including seller-financed transactions, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership if the terms follow normal commercial practices and the owner retains control absent violations of the terms.


(2) In determining unconditional ownership, SBA will disregard any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by qualifying veterans. However, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements (including rights to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock) held by non-veterans will be treated as exercised, except for any ownership interests which are held by investment companies licensed under 15 U.S.C. 681 *et. seq.*

(3) A right of first refusal granting the non-qualifying-veteran the contractual right to purchase the ownership interests of the qualifying veteran, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership, if the terms follow normal commercial practices. If those rights are exercised by the non-qualifying-veteran, a Participant must notify SBA in accordance with § 128.307. If the exercise of those rights results in the qualifying veteran(s) owning less than 51% of the concern, SBA will initiate decertification pursuant to § 128.310.


(c) *Ownership of a partnership.* In the case of a concern which is a partnership, one or more qualifying veterans must serve as general partners, with control over all partnership decisions. At least 51 percent of every class of partnership interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement.


(d) *Ownership of a limited liability company.* In the case of a concern which is a limited liability company, at least 51% of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans.


(e) *Ownership of a corporation.* In the case of a concern which is a corporation, at least 51% of the aggregate of all stock outstanding and at least 51% of each class of voting stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans. In the case of a publicly-owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock (not including any stock owned by an ESOP) must be unconditionally owned by one or more qualifying veterans.


(f) *Change of ownership.* A Participant may change its ownership or business structure so long as one or more qualifying veterans own and control it after the change. A Participant must notify SBA of a change of ownership in accordance with § 128.307 and attest to its continued eligibility.


(g) *Dividends and distributions.* One or more qualifying veterans must be entitled to receive:


(1) At least 51 percent of any distribution of profits paid to the owners of a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company concern, and a qualifying veteran's ability to share in the profits of the concern must be commensurate with the extent of his/her ownership interest in that concern.


(2) 100 percent of the value of each share of stock owned by them in the event that the stock or member interest is sold;


(3) At least 51 percent of the retained earnings of the concern and 100 percent of the unencumbered value of each share of stock or member interest owned in the event of dissolution of the corporation, partnership, or limited liability company; and


(h) *Community property.* Ownership will be determined without regard to community property laws.


(i) *Surviving spouse.* (1) A small business concern owned and controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans immediately prior to the death of a service-disabled veteran who was the owner of the concern, the death of whom causes the concern to be less than 51 percent owned by one or more service-disabled veterans, will continue to qualify as a small business concern owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans during the time period specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section if:


(i) The surviving spouse of the deceased veteran acquires such veteran's ownership interest in such concern;


(ii) Such veteran had a service-connected disability (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16)); and


(iii) For a Participant, immediately prior to the death of such veteran, and during the period described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the small business concern is included in the certification database.


(2) The time period described in paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section is the time period beginning on the date of the veteran's death and ending on the earlier of—


(i) The date on which the surviving spouse remarries;


(ii) The date on which the surviving spouse relinquishes an ownership interest in the small business concern;


(iii) In the case of a surviving spouse of a veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 100 percent disabling or who dies as a result of a service-connected disability, 10 years after the date of the death of the veteran; or


(iv) In the case of a surviving spouse of a veteran with a service-connected disability rated as less than 100 percent disabling who does not die as a result of a service-connected disability, 3 years after the date of the death of the veteran.



---

[N] [87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 102508, Dec. 17, 2024]






