# § 147.1100   State-administered program.

The UIC program for all classes of wells in the State of Massachusetts, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1422 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on November 23, 1982 (47 FR 52705); the effective date of this program is December 23, 1982. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application:


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Massachusetts. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) Massachusetts General Laws Annotated chapter 21, sections 27, 43, and 44 (West 1981);


(2) Code of Massachusetts Regulations, title 310, sections 23.01-23.11 as amended April 26, 1982.


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region I and the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on August 18, 1982.


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* “Underground Injection Control Program—Attorney General's Statement for Class I, II, III, IV and V Injection Wells,” signed by Assistant Attorney General for Attorney General of Massachusetts, May 13, 1982.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43088, Oct. 25, 1988]




