# § 103.44   What certain terms mean in this part.

*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the United States Department of the Interior. 


*Default* means: 


(1) The borrower's failure to make a scheduled loan payment when it is due; 


(2) The borrower's failure to meet a material condition of the loan agreement; 


(3) The borrower's failure to comply with any other condition, covenant or obligation under the terms of the loan agreement within applicable grace or cure periods; 


(4) The borrower's failure to remain at least 51 percent Indian owned, as provided in § 103.25(b); 


(5) The filing of a voluntary or involuntary petition in bankruptcy listing the borrower as debtor; 


(6) The imposition of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government lien on any assets of the borrower or assets otherwise used as collateral for the loan, except real property tax liens imposed by law to secure payments that are not yet due; 


(7) Any default defined in the loan agreement, to the extent the definition is not inconsistent with this part. 


*Equity* means the value, after deducting all debt, of the borrower's tangible assets in the business being financed, on which a lender can perfect a first lien security interest. It can include cash, securities, or other cash equivalent instruments, but cannot include the value of contractual options, the right to pay below market rental rates, or similar rights if those rights: 


(1) Are unassignable; or 


(2) Can expire before maturity of the loan. 


*Indian* means a person who is a member of a tribe as defined in this part. 


*Loan agreement* means the collective terms and conditions under which the lender extends a loan to a borrower, as reflected by the documents that evidence the loan. 


*Mortgage* means a consensual lien on real or personal property in favor of the lender, given by the borrower or a co-maker or guarantor of the loan (other than BIA), to secure loan repayment. The term “mortgage” includes “deed of trust.” 


*NEPA* means the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*

*Person* means any individual or distinct legal entity. 


*Program* means the BIA's Loan Guaranty, Insurance, and Interest Subsidy Program, established under 25 U.S.C. 1481 *et seq.,* 25 U.S.C. 1511 *et seq.,* and this part 103. 


*Reservation* means any land that is an Indian reservation, California rancheria, public domain Indian allotment, pueblo, Indian colony, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, or land held by an Alaska Native corporation under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), as amended. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of the Interior, or his authorized representative. 


*Tribe* means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, rancheria, village, community or corporation that the Secretary acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe, and that is eligible for services from BIA. 




