# § 233.50   Citizenship and alienage.

A State plan under title I (OAA); title IV-A (AFDC); title X (AB); title XIV (APTD); and title XVI (AABD-disabled) of the Social Security Act shall provide that an otherwise eligible individual, dependent child, or a caretaker relative or any other person whose needs are considered in determining the need of the child or relative claiming aid, must be either:


(a) A citizen, or


(b) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence or otherwise permanently residing in the United States under color of law, including certain aliens lawfully present in the United States as a result of the application of the following provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act:


(1) Section 207(c), in effect after March 31, 1980—Aliens Admitted as Refugees.


(2) Section 203(a)(7), in effect prior to April 1, 1980—Individuals who were Granted Status as Conditional Entrant Refugees.


(3) Section 208—Aliens Granted Political Asylum by the Attorney General.


(4) Section 212(d)(5)—Aliens Granted Temporary Parole Status by the Attorney General, or


(c) An alien granted lawful temporary resident status pursuant to section 201, 302, or 303 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-603) who must be either:


(1) A Cuban and Haitian entrant as defined in paragraph (1) or (2)(A) of section 501(e) of Pub. L. 96-422, as in effect on April 1, 1983, or


(2) An adult assistance applicant for OAA, AB, APTD, or AABD, or


(3) An applicant for AFDC who is not a Cuban and Haitian applicant under paragraph (c)(1) of this section who was adjusted to lawful temporary resident status more than five years prior to application.



---

[N] [47 FR 5680, Feb. 5, 1982; 47 FR 43383, Oct. 1, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 48689, Dec. 24, 1987; 53 FR 30433, Aug. 12, 1988; 54 FR 10544, Mar. 14, 1989] 




