# ยง 1605.31   Contributions missed as a result of military service.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to employees who meet the conditions specified at 5 CFR 1620.40 and who are eligible to make up employee contributions or to receive employing agency contributions missed as a result of military service.


(b) *Missed employee contributions.* An employee who separates or enters nonpay status to perform military service may be eligible to make up TSP contributions when he or she is reemployed or restored to pay status in the civilian service. Eligibility for making up missed employee contributions will be determined in accordance with the rules specified at 5 CFR part 1620, subpart E. Missed employee contributions must be made up in accordance with the rules set out in ยง 1605.11(c) and 5 CFR 1620.42.


(c) *Missed agency contributions.* This paragraph (c) applies only to an employee who would have been eligible to receive agency contributions had he or she remained in civilian service or pay status. A FERS employee who separates or enters nonpay status to perform military service is eligible to receive agency makeup contributions when he or she is reemployed or restored to pay status in the civilian service, as follows: 


(1) The employee is entitled to receive the agency automatic (1%) contributions that he or she would have received had he or she remained in civilian service or pay status. Within 60 days of the employee's reemployment or restoration to pay status, the employing agency must calculate the makeup agency automatic (1%) contributions and report those contributions to the record keeper, subject to any reduction in agency automatic (1%) contributions required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(2) An employee who contributed to a uniformed services TSP account during the period of military service is also immediately entitled to receive makeup agency matching contributions to his or her civilian account for the employee contributions to the uniformed services account that were deducted from his or her basic pay, subject to any reduction in agency matching contributions required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section. However, an employee is not entitled to receive makeup agency matching makeup contributions on contributions that were deducted from his or her incentive pay or special pay, including bonus pay, while performing military service.

(3) An employee who makes up missed contributions is entitled to receive attributable makeup agency matching contributions (unless the employee has already received the maximum amount of matching contributions, as described in paragraphs (c)(2) and (4) of this section).

(4) If the employee received uniformed services agency matching contributions, the makeup agency matching contributions will be reduced by the amount of the uniformed services agency matching contributions.

(5) If the employee received uniformed services agency automatic (1%) contributions, the agency automatic (1%) contributions will be reduced by the amount of the uniformed services agency automatic (1%) contributions.

(d) *Breakage.* The employee is entitled to breakage on agency contributions made under paragraph (c) of this section. Breakage will be calculated based on the investment election(s) on file for the participant during the period of military service.



---

[N] [67 FR 49525, July 30, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 32212, June 1, 2005; 80 FR 57070, Sept. 22, 2015; 82 FR 60105, Dec. 19, 2017; 87 FR 31679, May 24, 2022]




