# § 221.01   Definitions.

Wherever used in these standard terms and conditions:


(a) *A.I.D.* means the United States Agency for International Development or its successor with respect to the guarantee authorities contained in title III, chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (the “Act”).


(b) *Eligible Note(s)* means [a] Notes[s] meeting the eligibility criteria set out in § 221.12 hereof.


(c) *Noteholder* means the owner of an Eligible Note who is registered as such on the Note Register of Eligible Notes required to be maintained by the Fiscal Agent.


(d) *Borrower* means the Government of Israel, on behalf of the State of Israel.


(e) *Defaulted payment* means, as of any date,


(1) In respect of any current coupon Eligible Note, any interest amount and/or principal amount not paid when due, and


(2) In respect of any zero-coupon Eligible Note, any maturity amount not paid when due.


(f) *Further guaranteed payments* means the amount of any loss suffered by a Noteholder by reason of the Borrower's failure to comply on a timely basis with any obligation it may have under an Eligible Note to indemnify and hold harmless a Noteholder from taxes or governmental charges or any expense arising out of taxes or any other governmental charges relating to the Eligible Note in the country of the Borrower.


(g) *Loss of investment* respecting any Eligible Note means an amount in Dollars equal to the total of the:


(1) Defaulted Payment unpaid as of the Date of Application,


(2) Further Guaranteed Payments unpaid as of the Date of Application, and


(3) Interest accrued and unpaid at the rate(s) specified in the Eligible Note(s) on the Defaulted Payment and Further Guaranteed Payments, in each case from the date of default with respect to such payment to and including the date on which full payment thereof is made to the Noteholder.


(h) *Application for compensation* means an executed application in the form of appendix A to this part which a Noteholder, or the Fiscal Agent on behalf of a Noteholder, files with A.I.D. pursuant to § 221.21 of this part.


(i) *Applicant* means a Noteholder who files an Application for Compensation with A.I.D., either directly or through the Fiscal Agent acting on behalf of a Noteholder.


(j) *Date of application* means the effective date of an Application for Compensation filed with A.I.D. pursuant to § 221.21 of this part.


(k) *Business day* means any day other than a day on which banks in New York, New York are closed or authorized to be closed or a day which is observed as a federal holiday in Washington, DC, by the United States Government.


(l) *Guarantee payment date* means a Business Day not more than three (3) Business Days after the related Date of Application.


(m) *Person* means any legal person, including any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.




