# ยง 174.4   Policy.

It is DoD policy to:


(a) Act expeditiously whether closing or realigning. Relocating activities from installations designated for closure will, when feasible, be accelerated to facilitate the transfer of real property for community reuse. In the case of realignments, the Department will pursue aggressive planning and scheduling of related facility improvements at the receiving location.


(b) Fully utilize all appropriate means to transfer property. Federal law provides the Department with an array of legal authorities, including public benefit transfers, economic development conveyances at cost and no cost, negotiated sales to state or local government, conservation conveyances, and public sales, by which to transfer property on closed or realigned installations. Recognizing that the variety of types of facilities available for civilian reuse and the unique circumstances of the surrounding communities does not lend itself to a single universal solution, the Department will use this array of authorities in a way that considers individual circumstances.


(c) Rely on and leverage market forces. Community redevelopment plans and military conveyance plans should be integrated to the extent practical and should take account of any anticipated demand for surplus military land and facilities.


(d) Collaborate effectively. Experience suggests that collaboration is the linchpin to successful installation redevelopment. Only by collaborating with the local community can the Department close and transfer property in a timely manner and provide a foundation for solid economic redevelopment.


(e) Speak with one voice. The Department of Defense, acting through the DoD Components, will provide clear and timely information and will encourage affected communities to do the same.


(f) Work with communities to address growth. The Department will work with the surrounding community so that the public and private sectors can provide the services and facilities needed to accommodate new personnel and their families. The Department recognizes that installation commanders and local officials, as appropriate (*e.g.*, State, county, and tribal), need to integrate and coordinate elements of their local and regional growth planning so that appropriate off-base facilities and services are available for arriving personnel and their families.




