# § 550.267   What actions will BOEM take after the DPP or DOCD is deemed submitted?

(a) *State, local government, CZMA consistency, and other reviews.* Within 2 working days after the Regional Supervisor deems your DPP or DOCD submitted under § 550.266, the Regional Supervisor will use receipted mail or alternative method to send a public information copy of the DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information to the following:


(1) *The Governor of each affected State.* The Governor has 60 calendar days after receiving your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD to submit comments and recommendations. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments and recommendations received after the deadline.


(2) *The executive of any affected local government who requests a copy.* The executive of any affected local government has 60 calendar days after receipt of your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD to submit comments and recommendations. The Regional Supervisor will not consider comments and recommendations received after the deadline. The executive of any affected local government must forward all comments and recommendations to the respective Governor before submitting them to the Regional Supervisor.


(3) *The CZMA agency of each affected State.* The CZMA consistency review period under section 307(c)(3)(B)(ii) of the CZMA (16 U.S.C.1456(c)(3)(B)(ii)) and 15 CFR 930.78 begins when the States CZMA agency receives a copy of your deemed-submitted DPP or DOCD, consistency certification, and required necessary data/information (see 15 CFR 930.77(a)(1)).


(b) *General public.* Within 2 working days after the Regional Supervisor deems your DPP or DOCD submitted under § 550.266, the Regional Supervisor will make a public information copy of the DPP or DOCD and its accompanying information available for review to any appropriate interstate regional entity and the public at the appropriate BOEM Regional Public Information Office. Any interested Federal agency or person may submit comments and recommendations to the Regional Supervisor. Comments and recommendations must be received by the Regional Supervisor within 60 calendar days after the DPP or DOCD including its accompanying information is made available.


(c) *BOEM compliance review.* The Regional Supervisor will review the development and production activities in your proposed DPP or DOCD to ensure that they conform to the performance standards in § 550.202.


(d) *Amendments.* During the review of your proposed DPP or DOCD, the Regional Supervisor may require you, or you may elect, to change your DPP or DOCD. If you elect to amend your DPP or DOCD, the Regional Supervisor may determine that your DPP or DOCD, as amended, is subject to the requirements of § 550.266.




