# ยง 52.2059   Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) EPA approves the PM-10 attainment demonstration for the Liberty Borough Area of Allegheny County submitted by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection on January 6, 1994.


(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of August 25, 2008, the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle, Pennsylvania nonattainment area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and associated reasonably available measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(d) Determination of Clean Data. EPA has determined, as of September 25, 2009, the Johnstown (Cambria and Indiana Counties), Lancaster (Lancaster County), Reading (Berks County) and York (York County), Pennsylvania nonattainment areas have clean data for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for these areas to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as these areas continue to meet the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(e) *Determination of Clean Data.* EPA has determined, as of March 29, 2012, that based on 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle-York, Allentown, Johnstown, and Lancaster nonattainment areas have attained the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. These determinations, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspend the requirements for these areas to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as these areas continue to meet the 24-hour 2006 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(f) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of May 16, 2012, that based on 2007 to 2009 and 2008 to 2010 ambient air quality data, the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(g) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of October 12, 2012, that based on 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley fine particle (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley PM_2.5_ nonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(h) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of January 7, 2013, that based on 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 ambient air quality data, the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to submit, for the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE PM_2.5_ area, an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(i) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of October 25, 2013, based on quality-assured ambient air quality data for 2009 to 2011 and 2010 to 2012 ambient air quality data, that the Liberty-Clairton, PA nonattainment area has attained the 1997 annual fine particle (PM_2.5_) national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(j) *Determination of Clean Data.* EPA has determined, as of May 2, 2014, that based on 2010-2012 ambient air quality data, the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and approves the motor vehicle emission budgets used for transportation conformity purposes. This determination suspends the requirements for the Pittsburgh-Beaver Valley, Pennsylvania PM_2.5_ nonattainment area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(k) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Dauphin, Lebanon and Cumberland Counties to be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(l) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the York nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the York County to be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the York nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(m) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Harrisburg-Carlisle-Lebanon-York PM_2.5_ nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for the Dauphin, Lebanon, Cumberland, and York Counties be applied to all future transportation conformity determination and analyses for the Harrisburg-Carlisle-Lebanon-York nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(n) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Reading nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on November 25, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Berks County to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Reading nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(o) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Allentown nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on September 5, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) for Lehigh and Northampton Counties to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Allentown nonattainment area for the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(p) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on September 5, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Pennsylvania portion of the Philadelphia nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


*(q) Determination of attainment.* EPA has determined, as of July 10, 2015, based on quality-assured ambient air quality data for 2012 to 2014, that the Liberty-Clairton, PA nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour fine particle (PM_2.5_) national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS). This determination suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS. If EPA determines, after notice-and-comment rulemaking, that this area no longer meets the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS, the corresponding determination of attainment for that area shall be withdrawn.


(r) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Johnstown nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on December 3, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Johnstown nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(s) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Lancaster nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on April 30, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Lancaster nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(t) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Pittsburgh nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on December 22, 2014. The maintenance plan includes the 2017 and 2025 PM_2.5_ and NO_X_ motor vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Pittsburgh nonattainment area for the 1997 annual and 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(u) *Determination of attainment.* EPA has determined based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality monitoring data, that the Delaware County, Pennsylvania moderate nonattainment area has attained the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) primary national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1015, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning state implementation plan revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(v) *Determination of attainment.* Effective June 9, 2017, the EPA has determined that, based on 2013 to 2015 ambient air quality data, the Liberty-Clairton, PA PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 2006 24-hour PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of December 31, 2015. Therefore, the EPA has met the requirement pursuant to CAA section 188(b)(2) to determine whether the area attained the standard. The EPA also has determined that the Liberty-Clairton, PA nonattainment area will not be reclassified for failure to attain by its applicable attainment date under section 188(b)(2).


(w) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined based on 2014 to 2016 ambient air quality monitoring data, that the Lebanon County, Pennsylvania moderate nonattainment area has attained the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) primary national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS). This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1015, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning state implementation plan revisions related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(x) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Delaware County nonattainment area for the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on January 23, 2019. The maintenance plan includes the 2014, 2022, and 2030 PM_2.5_ and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Delaware County area for the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(y) EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Lebanon County nonattainment area for the 2012 annual fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) NAAQS submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on February 11, 2019. The maintenance plan includes the 2014, 2022, and 2030 PM_2.5_ and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) mobile vehicle emissions budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Lebanon County area for the 2012 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(z) EPA approves the limited maintenance plan for the second 10-year maintenance period for the PM_10_ Liberty Borough area in Allegheny County.





---

[N] [45 FR 33628, May 20, 1980]


