# ยง 34.1   Applicability; definitions; exemptions in case of certain State regulation, certain short-term issuances and certain qualifying facilities.

(a) *Applicability.* This part applies to applications for authorization from the Commission to issue securities or assume an obligation or liability which are filed by:


(1) Licensees and other entities pursuant to sections 19 and 20 of the Federal Power Act (41 Stat. 1073, 16 U.S.C. 812, 813) and part 20 of the Commission's regulations; and


(2) Public utilities pursuant to section 204 of the Federal Power Act (49 Stat. 850, 16 U.S.C. 824c).


(b) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this part:


(1) The term *utility* means a licensee, public utility or other entity seeking authorization under sections 19, 20 or 204 of the Federal Power Act;


(2) The term *securities* includes any note, stock, treasury stock, bond, or debenture or other evidence of interest in or indebtedness of a utility;


(3) The term *issuance or placement of securities* means issuance or placement of securities, or assumption of obligation or liability; and


(4) The term *State* means a State admitted to the Union, the District of Columbia, and any organized Territory of the United States.


(c) *Exemptions.* (1) If an agency of the State in which the utility is organized and operating approves or authorizes, in writing, the issuance of securities prior to their issuance, the utility is exempt from the provisions of sections 19, 20 and 204 of the Federal Power Act and the regulations under this part, with respect to such securities. 


(2) This part does not apply to the issue or renewal of, or assumption of liability on, a note or draft maturing one year or less after the date of such issue, renewal, or assumption of liability, if the aggregate of such note or draft and all other then-outstanding notes and drafts of a maturity of one year or less on which the utility is primarily or secondarily liable, is not more than 5 percent of the par value of the other then-outstanding securities of the utility as of the date of issue or renewal of, or assumption of liability on, the note or draft. In the case of securities having no par value, the par value for the purpose of this part is the fair market value, as of the date of issue or renewal of, or assumption of liability on, the note or draft. 


(3) *For certain qualifying facilities.* Any cogeneration or small power production facility which is exempt from sections 19, 20 and 204 of the Federal Power Act pursuant to ยง 292.601 of this chapter shall be exempt from the provisions of this part.



---

[N] [Order 182, 46 FR 50514, Oct. 14, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 9851, Mar. 9, 1983; Order 575, 60 FR 4852, Jan. 25, 1995]




