# § 202.7   Nonsupervised lenders and mortgagees.

(a) *Definition.* A nonsupervised lender or mortgagee is a lending institution which has as its principal activity the lending or investing of funds in real estate mortgages, consumer installment notes, or similar advances of credit, or the purchase of consumer installment contracts, and which is not approved under any other section of this part. A nonsupervised mortgagee may submit applications for mortgage insurance. A nonsupervised lender or mortgagee may originate, purchase, hold, service or sell insured loans or mortgages, respectively.


(b) *Additional requirements.* In addition to the general approval requirements in § 202.5, a nonsupervised lender or mortgagee shall meet the following requirements:


(1) *Net worth and liquid assets.* The net worth and liquidity requirements appear in § 202.5(n).


(2) *Credit source*—(i) *Title I.* A lender shall have and maintain a reliable warehouse line of credit or other funding program acceptable to the Secretary of not less than $500,000 for use in originating or purchasing Title I loans.


(ii) *Title II.* Except for multifamily mortgagees, a mortgagee shall have a warehouse line of credit or other mortgage funding program acceptable to the Secretary which is adequate to fund the mortgagee's average 60 day origination operations, but in no event shall the warehouse line of credit or funding program be less than $1,000,000.


(3) *Audit report.* (i) A lender or mortgagee must comply with the financial reporting requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart H. Audit reports shall be based on audits performed by a certified public accountant, or by an independent public accountant licensed by a regulatory authority of a State or other political subdivision of the United States on or before December 31, 1970, and shall include: 


(A) A financial statement in a form acceptable to the Secretary, including a balance sheet and a statement of operations and retained earnings, a statement of cash flows, an analysis of the mortgagee's net worth adjusted to reflect only assets acceptable to the Secretary, and an analysis of escrow funds; and 


(B) Such other financial information as the Secretary may require to determine the accuracy and validity of the audit report.


(ii) A mortgagee must submit a report on compliance tests prescribed by the Secretary.


(4) *Fidelity bond.* A Title II mortgagee shall have fidelity bond coverage and errors and omissions insurance acceptable to the Secretary and in an amount required by the Secretary, or alternative insurance coverage approved by the Secretary, that assures the faithful performance of the responsibilities of the mortgagee.



---

[N] [62 FR 20082, Apr. 24, 1997, as amended at 62 FR 65182, Dec. 10, 1997; 63 FR 9742, Feb. 26, 1998; 63 FR 44361, Aug. 18, 1998; 67 FR 53451, Aug. 15, 2002; 77 FR 51468, Aug. 24, 2012]




