# § 158.13   Use of PFC revenue.

PFC revenue, including any interest earned after such revenue has been remitted to a public agency, may be used only to finance the allowable costs of approved projects at any airport the public agency controls. 


(a) *Total cost.* PFC revenue may be used to pay all or part of the allowable cost of an approved project. 


(b) *PFC administrative support costs.* Public agencies may use PFC revenue to pay for allowable administrative support costs. Public agencies must submit these costs as a separate project in each PFC application.


(c) *Maximum cost for certain low-emission technology projects.* If a project involves a vehicle or ground support equipment using low emission technology eligible under § 158.15(b), the FAA will determine the maximum cost that may be financed by PFC revenue. The maximum cost for a new vehicle is the incremental amount between the purchase price of a new low emission vehicle and the purchase price of a standard emission vehicle, or the cost of converting a standard emission vehicle to a low emission vehicle.


(d) *Bond-associated debt service and financing costs.* (1) Public agencies may use PFC revenue to pay debt service and financing costs incurred for a bond issued to carry out approved projects.


(2) If the public agency's bond documents require that PFC revenue be commingled in the general revenue stream of the airport and pledged for the benefit of holders of obligations, the FAA considers PFC revenue to have paid the costs covered in § 158.13(d)(1) if—


(i) An amount equal to the part of the proceeds of the bond issued to carry out approved projects is used to pay allowable costs of such projects; and


(ii) To the extent the PFC revenue collected in any year exceeds the debt service and financing costs on such bonds during that year, an amount equal to the excess is applied as required by § 158.39.


(e) *Exception providing for the use of PFC revenue to pay for debt service for non-eligible projects.* The FAA may authorize a public agency under § 158.18 to impose a PFC for payments for debt service on indebtedness incurred to carry out an airport project that is not eligible if the FAA determines that such use is necessary because of the financial need of the airport.


(f) *Combination of PFC revenue and Federal grant funds.* A public agency may combine PFC revenue and airport grant funds to carry out an approved project. These projects are subject to the record keeping and auditing requirements of this part, as well as the reporting, record keeping and auditing requirements imposed by the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 (AAIA).


(g) *Non-Federal share.* Public agencies may use PFC revenue to meet the non-Federal share of the cost of projects funded under the Federal airport grant program or the FAA “Program to Permit Cost-Sharing of Air Traffic Modernization Projects” under 49 U.S.C. 44517.


(h) *Approval of project following approval to impose a PFC.* The public agency may not use PFC revenue or interest earned thereon except on an approved project.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 26385, 56 FR 24278, May 29, 1991, as amended by Amdt. 158-4, 72 FR 28847, May 23, 2007]




