# § 58.605   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning as applied to frozen desserts meeting FDA requirements and briefly defined as follows: 


(a) *Ice cream.* The product conforming to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for ice cream (21 CFR 135.110). 


(b) *Frozen custard.* The product conforming to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for frozen custard (21 CFR 135.110). 


(c) *Reduced Fat, Light, or Fat free Ice Cream.* The products conforming to all applicable Federal Regulations including “Ice cream and frozen custard,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 135.110), “Nutrient content claims for fat, fatty acid, and cholesterol content of foods,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 101.62), and “Requirements for foods named by use of a nutrient content claim and a standardized term,” Food and Drug Administration (21 CFR 130.10). 


(d) *Sherbet.* The product conforming to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for sherbet (21 CFR 135.140). 


(e) *Mellorine.* The product conforming to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for mellorine (21 CFR 135.130). 


(f) *Overrun.* The trade expression used to reference the increase in volume of the frozen product over the volume of the mix. This increase in volume is due to air being whipped into the product during the freezing process. It is expressed as percent of the volume of the mix. 


(g) *Mix.* The trade name for the combined and processed ingredients which after freezing become a frozen dessert. 



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 48976, July 29, 2002]




