# ยง 52.1635   Rules and regulations.

(a) *Part D disapproval:* The requirements of ยง 51.281 of this chapter are not met since the measurement provisions of Sections A, B.2, and B.3 of New Mexico Regulation 506 make these sections unenforceable. Therefore, Sections A, B.2, and B.3 of Regulation 506 are disapproved.


(b) *Regulation for measurement of emission limitations (particulate matter from nonferrous smelters).* (1) This regulation applies to new and existing nonferrous smelters as they are defined in New Mexico Regulation 506. The requirements of this paragraph replace the requirements of Sections A, B.2, and B.3 of Regulation 506. All other requirements of Regulation 506 are approved as part of the plan.


(2) No person owning or operating a new nonferrous smelter shall permit, cause, suffer, or allow particulate matter emissions to the atmosphere in excess of 0.03 grains per dry standard cubic foot (as defined in 40 CFR part 60) of discharge gas.


(3) No person owning or operating an existing nonferrous smelter shall permit, cause, suffer, or allow particulate matter to the atmosphere from:


(i) The stack or stacks serving the acid plant in excess of 0.05 grains per dry standard cubic foot of discharge gas.


(ii) The stack or stacks serving the reverberatory feed dryer in excess of 0.05 grains per dry standard cubic foot of discharge gas.


(c) *Regulation for compliance testing (particulate matter from nonferrous smelter).* The requirements of ยง 60.8(f) of 40 CFR part 60 shall apply to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and to each operation of Section B.4 of New Mexico Regulation 506.



---

[N] [45 FR 24469, Apr. 10, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 40677, Nov. 7, 1986] 




