# ยง 884.218   Reexamination of family income and composition.

(a) *Regular reexaminations.* The owner must reexamine the income and composition of all families at least once each year. Upon verification of the information, the owner must make appropriate adjustments in the Total Tenant Payment in accordance with part 5 of this title and determine whether the family's unit size is still appropriate. The owner must adjust Tenant Rent and the Housing Assistance Payment to reflect any change in Total Tenant Payment and carry out any unit transfer required by HUD. At the time of the annual reexamination of family income and composition, the owner must require the family to disclose and verify Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see 24 CFR part 5. At the first regular reexamination after June 19, 1995, the owner shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 concerning obtaining and processing evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status of all family members. Thereafter, at each regular reexamination, the owner shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 concerning verification of the immigration status of any new family member.


(b) *Interim reexaminations.* The family must comply with provisions of its lease regarding interim reporting of changes in income. If the owner receives information concerning a change in the family's income or other circumstances between regularly scheduled reexaminations, the owner must consult with the family and make any adjustments determined to be appropriate. Any change in the family's income or other circumstances that results in an adjustment in the Total Tenant Payment, Tenant Rent and Housing Assistance Payment must be verified. See 24 CFR 750.10(d)(2)(i) for the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security Numbers at interim reexaminations involving new family members. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see 24 CFR part 5. At any interim reexamination after June 19, 1995 when there is a new family member, the owner shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 5 concerning obtaining and processing evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status of the new family member.


(c) *Continuation of housing assistance payments.* A family's eligibility for Housing Assistance Payments continues until the Total Tenant Payment equals the Contract Rent plus any utility allowance, or until the family loses eligibility for continued occupancy under Farmer's Home Administration regulations. However, eligibility also may be terminated in accordance with HUD requirements, for such reasons as failure to submit requested verification information, including failure to meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, or failure to sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5. For provisions requiring termination of assistance for failure to establish citizenship or eligible immigration status, see 24 CFR part 5 and also for provisions concerning certain assistance for mixed families (families whose members include those with eligible immigration status, and those without eligible immigration status) in lieu of termination of 

assistance, and for provisions concerning deferral of termination of assistance.


(d) *Streamlined income determination.* An owner may elect to follow the provisions of 24 CFR 5.657(d).



---

[N] [56 FR 7541, Feb. 22, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 14845, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 13594, Mar. 27, 1996; 65 FR 16723, Mar. 29, 2000; 81 FR 12371, Mar. 8, 2016]




