# ยง 134.1112   The decision.

(a) *Timing.* The Judge shall decide a VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal, insofar as practicable, within 60 calendar days after close of the record.


(b) *Contents.* Following closure of the record, the Judge will issue a decision containing findings of fact and conclusions of law, reasons for such findings and conclusions, and any relief ordered.


(c) *Basis for decision.* Decisions under this subpart will be based primarily on the evidence in the SBA case file, arguments made on appeal, and any response(s) thereto. However, the Judge, in his/her sole discretion, may consider issues beyond those raised in the pleadings and the denial or cancellation letter.


(d) *Finality.* The decision is the final agency decision and becomes effective upon issuance. Where OHA dismisses an appeal of a D/GC denial or decertification, the D/GC determination remains in effect.


(e) *Service.* OHA will serve a copy of all written decisions on each party, or, if represented by counsel, on its counsel.


(f) *Effect.* If the Judge grants the appeal and finds the appellant eligible for inclusion in the SBA certification database, the D/GC must immediately include in the SBA certification database.


(g) *Reconsideration.* A decision of the Judge may be reconsidered. Any party that has appeared in the proceeding, or the SBA Administrator or his or her designee, may request reconsideration by filing with OHA and serving a petition for reconsideration on all parties to the VOSB or SDVOSB Appeal within twenty (20) calendar days after service of the written decision, upon a clear showing of an error of fact or law material to the decision. The Judge also may reconsider a decision on his or her own initiative.






