# § 721.1790   Polybrominated biphenyls.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified as 1,1′-(Biphenyl, 4,4′-dibromo- (CAS No. 92-86-4); 1,1′-(Biphenyl, 2-bromo- (CAS No. 2052-07-5); 1,1′-(Biphenyl, 3-bromo- (CAS No. 2113-57-7); 1,1′-(Biphenyl, 2,2′, 3,3′, 4,4′, 5,5′, 6,6′-decabromo- (CAS No. 13654-09-6); Nonabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 27753-52-2); Octabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 27858-07-7); and Hexabromobiphenyl (CAS No. 36355-01-8) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(i) The significant new use is: Any use.


(ii) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(A) *Persons who must report.* Section 721.5 applies to this section except for § 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process for commercial purposes a substance identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and intends to distribute the substance in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.


(B) [Reserved]


(2) The chemical substance identified as 1,1′-(Biphenyl, 4-bromo- (CAS No. 92-66-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(i) The significant new uses are:


(A) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activites.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f), (j), and (s) (10,000 kilograms).


(B) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(ii) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(A) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(B) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(C) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 45955, Aug. 28, 1998]




