# 6101.8   Motions [Rule 8].

(a) *Generally.* A party may make a motion for a Board action orally on the record in the presence of the other party or in a written filing. A written motion shall be a document titled as a motion and shall state the relief sought and the legal basis (see Rule 23(b) (48 CFR 6101.23(b)). Except for joint or dispositive motions, all motions shall represent that the movant tried to resolve the motion with the other party before filing. The Board may hold oral argument on a motion.


(b) *Jurisdictional motions.* A party challenging the Board's jurisdiction should file such a motion promptly.


(c) *Procedural motions.* A party may move for an extension of time (Rule 3(b) (48 CFR 6101.3(b)). The Board may in its discretion consider motions on other procedural matters. A procedural motion shall state the other party's position on the motion or describe the movant's effort to learn the other party's position.


(d) *Discovery motions.* See Rule 13(e) (48 CFR 6101.13(e)).


(e) *Motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim.* A party may move to dismiss all or part of a claim for failure to state grounds on which the Board could grant relief. In deciding such motions, the Board looks to Rule 12(b)(6) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for guidance.


(f) *Summary judgment motions.* A party may move for summary judgment on all or part of a claim or defense if the party believes in good faith it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law based on undisputed material facts. In deciding motions for summary judgment, the Board looks to Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure for guidance.


(1) *Statement of undisputed material facts.* The movant shall file with its summary judgment motion a separate document titled, “Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.” This document shall set forth facts supporting the motion in separate, numbered paragraphs, citing appeal file exhibits, admissions in pleadings, and/or evidence filed with the motion.


(2) *Statement of genuine issues.* The opposing party shall file with its opposition a separate document titled, “Statement of Genuine Issues.” This document shall respond to specific paragraphs of the movant's Statement of Undisputed Material Facts by identifying material facts in genuine dispute, citing appeal file exhibits, admissions in pleadings, and/or evidence filed with the opposition.


(g) *Briefing.* A party may file a brief in opposition to a motion under Rule 26, Rule 27, Rule 28, or Rule 29 (48 CFR 6101.26, 6101.27, 6101.28, or 6101.29) only by permission of the Board. Unless otherwise ordered, a brief in opposition to any other nonprocedural motion is due 30 days after receipt of the motion, and a movant's reply brief is due 15 days after receipt of an opposition brief. A nonmovant may file a surreply only by permission of the Board. Unless otherwise ordered, a brief in opposition to a procedural motion is due 5 days after receipt of the motion, and there shall be no reply.


(h) *Effect of pending motion.* Unless otherwise stated in this part, the filing of a motion does not affect a party's obligations under the Board's rules or orders.




