# ยง 5.19   Tendering notice and schedule.

(a) *Notice.* Within 14 days of the filing date of any application for a license developed pursuant to this part, the Commission will issue public notice of the tendering for filing of the application. The tendering notice will include a preliminary schedule for expeditious processing of the application, including dates for: 


(1) Issuance of the acceptance for filing and ready for environmental analysis notice provided for in ยง 5.22. 


(2) Filing of recommendations, preliminary terms and conditions, and fishway prescriptions; 


(3) Issuance of a draft environmental assessment or environmental impact statement, or an environmental assessment not preceded by a draft. 


(4) Filing of comments on the draft environmental assessment or environmental impact statement, as applicable; 


(5) Filing of modified recommendations, mandatory terms and conditions, and fishway prescriptions in response to a draft NEPA document or Environmental Analysis, if no draft NEPA document is issued; 


(6) Issuance of a final NEPA document, if any; 


(7) In the case of a new or subsequent license application, a deadline for submission of final amendments, if any, to the application; and 


(8) Readiness of the application for Commission decision. 


(b) *Modifications to process plan and schedule.* The tendering notice shall also include any known modifications to the schedules developed pursuant to ยง 5.8 for completion of consultation under section 7 of the Endangered Species Act and water quality certification under section 401 of the Clean Water Act. 


(c) *Method of notice.* The public notice provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section will be given by: 


(1) Publishing notice in the _Federal Register_; and 


(2) Notifying appropriate Federal, state, and interstate resource agencies, state water quality and coastal zone management plan consistency certification agencies, Indian tribes, and non-governmental organizations, by electronic means if practical, otherwise by mail.


(d) *Resolution of pending information requests.* Within 30 days of the filing date of any application for a license developed pursuant to this part, the Director of the Office of Energy Projects will issue an order resolving any requests for additional information-gathering or studies made in comments on the preliminary licensing proposal or draft license application. 



---

[N] [Order 2002, 68 FR 51121, Aug. 25, 2003; 68 FR 61742, Oct. 30, 2003; 68 FR 69957, Dec. 16, 2003; Order 653, 70 FR 8724, Feb. 23, 2005]




