# § 228.2   Claimant or counterclaimant's failure to prosecute.

(a) *General.* If a claimant or counterclaimant fails to proceed in an *active proceeding* without justifiable cause, as demonstrated by a failure to meet any filing deadline or requirement set forth in the scheduling order or other order, upon request of a party or on its own initiative, the Board shall issue a notice following the missed deadline or requirement. Requests to issue a notice regarding a missed deadline or requirement and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter.


(b) *Contents of failure to prosecute notice.* (1) A notice issued under paragraph (a) of this section shall inform the claimant or counterclaimant that failure to proceed in the proceeding may result in the Board issuing a determination dismissing the claimant's or counterclaimant's claims, including an award of attorneys' fees and costs where appropriate, and shall explain the legal effects of such a determination. The notice shall provide the claimant or counterclaimant with 30 days, beginning on the date of the notice, to respond to the notice and meet the missed deadline or requirement. The notice shall be issued to the claimant or counterclaimant by mail and all known email addresses.


(2) If the claimant or counterclaimant has failed to respond 15 days after the notice of the failure to proceed, the Board shall send a second notice to the claimant or counterclaimant according to the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Such notice shall attach the first notice and shall remind the claimant or counterclaimant that it must respond and meet the missed deadline or requirement within 30 days from the date of the first notice.


(c) *Response to failure to prosecute notice.* (1) If the claimant or counterclaimant cures the missed deadline or requirement within the time specified by the notice, the proceeding shall resume and the Board shall issue a revised scheduling order, if necessary.


(2) If the claimant or counterclaimant fails to cure the missed deadline or requirement within the time specified by the notice but submits a response that indicates an intent to re-engage with the proceeding pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter, the Board shall consider the response and either provide the claimant or counterclaimant with additional time to cure the missed deadline or requirement or issue a determination dismissing the claims or counterclaims.


(3) If the claimant or counterclaimant fails to cure the missed deadline or requirement within the time specified by the notice and does not otherwise respond to the notice, the Board shall issue a determination dismissing the claims or counterclaims.


(d) *Determination dismissing claims or counterclaims.* A determination dismissing the claims or counterclaims for failure to proceed in the *active proceeding* shall be with prejudice and shall include an award of attorneys' fees and costs pursuant to § 232.3 of this subchapter, if appropriate. The claimant or counterclaimant may only challenge such determination to the extent permitted under 17 U.S.C. 1508(c) or the procedures set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Vacating a determination dismissing claims or counterclaims.* If additional proceedings have not been initiated under 17 U.S.C. 1508(c), the claimant or counterclaimant may request in writing that the determination be vacated and provide the reasons supporting the request. A request to vacate the determination must be filed within 30 days of the determination, shall be no more than 12 pages, and shall meet the requirements set forth in § 220.5(b) of this subchapter; and a response to that request must be filed within 30 days of the request to vacate, shall be no more than 12 pages, and shall meet the requirements set forth in § 220.5(b). The Board may vacate the determination of dismissal in the interests of justice.


(f) *Multiple missed deadlines.* A claimant or counterclaimant may cure a missed deadline according to the procedure set forth in this section at least twice without dismissal for failure to prosecute. If the claimant or counterclaimant misses a third deadline in the scheduling order without good cause, the Board may, in its discretion, proceed directly to issuing a determination dismissing the claims or counterclaims for failure to proceed under paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [87 FR 30088, May 17, 2022; 87 FR 36061, June 15, 2022]




