# § 381.36   Facilities required.

(a) *Inspector's Office.* Office space, including, but not being limited to furnishings, light, heat, and janitor service, shall be provided rent free in the official establishment, for the use of Government personnel for official purposes. The room or space set apart for this purpose must meet the approval of the Inspection Service and be conveniently located, properly ventilated, and provided with lockers or file cabinets suitable for the protection and storage of supplies and with facilities suitable for inspectors to change clothing. At the discretion of the Administrator, small plants requiring the services of less than one full-time inspector need not furnish facilities for Program employees as prescribed in this section, where adequate facilities exist in a nearby convenient location. Each official establishment shall provide commercial laundry service for inspectors' outer work clothing, or disposable outer work garments designed for one-time use, or uniform rental service garments which are laundered by the rental service. 


(b) *Facilities for ante mortem inspection.* A suspect pen is required for adequate ratite inspection.


(c) Facilities for the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS). The following requirements for lines operating under SIS are in addition to the normal requirements to obtain a grant of inspection. The requirements for SIS in § 381.76(b) also apply.


(1) The following provisions shall apply to every inspection station:


(i) The conveyor line shall be level for the entire length of the inspection station. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the adjustable platform (paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section) in its lowest position shall not be less than 60 inches.


(ii) Floor space shall consist of 4 feet along the conveyor line for the inspector, and 4 feet for the establishment helper. A total of at least 8 feet along the conveyor line shall be supplied for one inspection station and 16 feet for two-inspection stations.


(iii) Selectors or “kickouts” shall be installed in establishments with two inspection stations on a line so each inspector will receive birds on 12-inch centers with no intervening birds to impede inspection. The selector must move the bird to the edge of the trough for the inspector and establishment helper. The selectors must be smooth, steady, and consistent in moving the birds parallel and through the inspection station. Birds shall be selected and released smoothly to avoid swinging when entering the inspection station.


(iv) Each inspector's station shall have a platform that is slip-resistant and can be safely accessed by the inspector. The platform shall be designed so that it can be easily and rapidly adjusted for a minimum of 14 inches vertically while standing on the platform. The platform shall be a minimum length of 4 feet and have a minimum width of 2 feet; the platform shall be designed with a 42-inch high rail on the back side and with 
1/2-inch foot bumpers on both sides and front to allow safe working conditions. The platform must have a safe lift mechanism and be large enough for the inspector to sit on a stool and to change stations during breaks or station rotation.


(v) Conveyor line stop/start switches shall be located within easy reach of each inspector.


(vi) A trough or other facilities shall extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point where the trimming has been performed. The trough must be of sufficient width to preclude trimmings, drippage, and debris from accumulating on the floor or platforms. The clearance between the suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to preclude contamination of carcasses by splash.


(vii) A minimum of 200-footcandles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index value of 85 where the birds are inspected to facilitate inspection.


(viii) Online handrinsing facilities with a continuous flow of water must be provided for and within easy reach of each inspector and each establishment helper. The hand-contact element must be rinsed automatically with a sufficient volume of water to remove all fat, tissue, debris, and other extraneous material from the hand contact element after each use. Both hot and cold running water shall be available at each inspection station on the eviscerating line and shall be delivered through a suitable mixing device controlled by the inspector. Alternatively, water for hand washing shall be delivered to such inspection stations at a minimum temperature of 65 degrees F.


(ix) Hangback racks shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the establishment helpers.


(x) Each inspection station shall be provided with receptacles for condemned carcasses and parts. Such receptacles shall comply with the performance standards in § 416.3(c) of this chapter.


(2) The following provisions shall apply only to prechill and postchill reinspection stations:


(i) Floor space shall consist of a minimum of 3 feet along each conveyor line and after each chiller to allow carcasses to be removed for evaluation. The space shall be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.


(ii) The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the floor shall not be less than 48 inches.


(iii) A table, at least 2 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet high designed to be readily cleanable and drainable shall be provided for reinspecting the sampled birds.


(iv) A minimum of 200-footcandles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 on the table surface shall be provided.


(v) A separate clip board holder shall be provided for holding the recording sheets.


(vi) Handwashing facilities shall be provided for and shall be within easy access of persons working at the stations.


(vii) Hangback racks designed to hold 10 carcasses shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the person at the station.


(d) Facilities for the New Line Speed (NELS) inspection system. The following requirements for lines operating under the NELS inspection system are in addition to the normal requirements to obtain a grant of inspection and to the requirements for NELS in § 381.76 (b) and (c).


(1) The following provisions shall apply to every inspection station:


(i) The conveyor line shall be level for the entire length of the inspection station. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the adjustable platform (paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section) in its lowest position shall not be less than 60 inches.


(ii) Floor space shall consist of 6 feet along the conveyor line for the establishment employee presenting the birds, 4 feet for the inspector, and 4 feet for the establishment helper. A total of at least 42 feet along the conveyor line shall be supplied for three inspection stations.


(iii) Selectors or “kickouts” shall be installed so the three inspection stations will receive birds on 18-inch centers with no intervening birds to impede inspection. The selector must move the bird to the end of the trough for the presenter, inspector, and establishment helper. The selectors must be smooth, steady, and consistent in moving the birds parallel and through the inspection station. Birds shall be selected and released smoothly to avoid splashing the mirror (paragraph (d)(1)(vii) of this section) and swinging when entering the inspection station. Guide bars shall not extend in front of the inspection station mirror to avoid obstructing the inspector's view.


(iv) Each inspector's station shall have an easily and rapidly adjustable platform, with a minimum of 14 inches of vertical adjustment, which covers the entire length of the station (4 feet) and has a minimum width of 2 feet. The platform shall be designed with a 42-inch high rail on the back side and with 
1/2-inch foot bumpers on both sides and front to allow safe working conditions.


(v) Conveyor line stop/start switches shall be located within easy reach of each inspector.


(vi) A trough shall extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point where the trimming has been performed. The trough must be of sufficient width to preclude trimmings, drippage, and debris from accumulating on the floor or platforms. The clearance between the suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to preclude contamination of carcasses by splash.


(vii) A distortion-free mirror, at least 3 feet wide and 2 feet high, shall be mounted at each inspection station so that it can be adjusted between 5 and 15 inches behind the shackles, tilt up and down, tilt from side to side, and be raised and lowered. The mirror shall be positioned in relation to the inspection platform so that the inspector can position himself/herself opposite it 8 to 12 inches from the downstream edge. The mirror must be maintained abrasion free.


(viii) A minimum of 200-footcandles of shadow-free lighting with minimum color rendering index value of 85 
1 where the birds are inspected to facilitate inspection. A light shall also be positioned above and slightly in front of the mirror to facilitate the illumination of the bird and mirror surfaces.


(ix) “One-line” handrinsing facilities with a continuous flow of water shall be provided for and within easy reach of each inspector and each establishment presenter and helper.


(x) Hangback racks shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the establishment helpers.


(xi) Each inspection station shall be provided with receptacle for condemned carcasses and parts. Such receptacles shall comply with the performance standards in § 416.3(c) of this chapter.


(2) The following provisions shall apply only to the reinspection station:


(i) Floor space shall consist of 6 feet along the conveyor line. The space shall be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.


(ii) The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the floor shall not be less than 48 inches.


(iii) A table, at least 3 feet wide and 2 feet deep, shall be provided for reinspecting the sample birds.


(iv) A minimum of 200-footcandles of shows free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 
1 on the table surface. 


(v) A separate clip board holder shall be provided for holding the recording sheets. 


(vi) Handwashing facilities shall be provided for and shall be within easy reach of persons working at the station.


(vii) Hangback racks designed to hold 10 carcasses shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the person at the station.


(e) Facilities for the New Turkey Inspection (NTI) System. The following requirements for lines operating under the NTI System are in addition to the normal requirements to obtain a grant of inspection and to the requirements for the NTI System in § 381.76 (b) and (c).


(1) The following provisions apply to every inspection station:


(i) The conveyor line must be level for the entire length of the inspection station. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the adjustable platform (paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section) in its lowest position shall not be less than 60 inches.


(ii) Floor space shall consist of 8 feet along the conveyor line; at least 4 feet for the inspector, and at least 4 feet for the establishment helper.


(iii) The inspector's station shall have an easily and rapidly adjustable platform with a minimum width of 2 feet which covers the entire length of the station (4 feet). The platform must adjust vertically a minimum of 14 inches, and must have a 42-inch rail on the back side and 
1/2-inch foot bumpers on the sides and the front to allow safe working conditions.


(iv) Conveyor line stop/start switches shall be located within easy reach of each inspector.


(v) A trough or other facilities shall extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point where the trimming has been performed. The trough must be wide enough to prevent trimmings, drippage, and debris from accumulation on the floor or platforms. The clearance between suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to prevent contamination of carcasses by splash.


(vi) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index value of 85 
1 where the birds are inspected to facilitate inspection is required. The minimum lighting requirement for inspection stations in § 381.52(b) shall not apply.


(vii) On-line handrinsing facilities with a continuous flow of water shall be provided for and within easy reach of each inspector and each establishment helper.


(viii) Hangback racks shall be provided for and within easy reach of the establishment helper.


(ix) Each inspection station shall be provided with receptacles for condemned carcasses and parts. Such receptacles shall comply with the performance standards in § 416.3(c) of this chapter.


(2) The following provisions shall apply only to the reinspection station:


(i) Floor space shall consist of a minimum of 3 feet along the conveyor line so carcasses can be removed from each line for evaluation. The space shall be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.


(ii) The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the floor must not be less than 48 inches.


(iii) A table at least 3 feet wide and 2 feet deep designed to be readily cleanable and drainable shall be provided for reinspecting the sampled birds.


(iv) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 
1 at the table surface is required.


(v) A clipboard holder shall be provided for holding the recording sheets.


(vi) Handwashing facilities shall be provided for and within easy reach of persons working at the station.


(vii) Hangback racks designed to hold 10 carcasses shall be provided for and positioned within easy reach of the person at this station.


(f) *Facilities for post-mortem inspection under the New Poultry Inspection System.* The following facilities requirements apply to establishments operating under the New Poultry Inspection System and are in addition to the requirements for obtaining a grant of inspection.


(1) The following provisions apply to the online carcass inspection station:


(i) On each production line, at a point before the chiller and after the establishment has completed all sorting, trimming, and reprocessing activities necessary to comply with § 381.76(b)(6)(ii), at least 4 feet of floor space along the conveyor line must be provided for one online carcass inspection station.


(ii) The conveyor line must be level for the entire length of the online carcass inspection station. The vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the top of the platform (paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section) must not be less than 60 inches.


(iii) Each online carcass inspection station must have a platform that is slip-resistant and can be safely accessed by the inspector. The platform must be designed so that it can be easily and rapidly adjusted for a minimum of 14 inches vertically while standing on the platform. The platform must be a minimum length of 4 feet and have a minimum width of 2 feet. The platform must be designed with a 42-inch high rail on the back side and with 
1/2-inch foot bumpers on both sides and front to allow safe working conditions. The platform must have a safe lift mechanism and be large enough for the inspector to sit on a stool and to change stations during breaks or station rotation.


(iv) Conveyor line stop/start switches must be located within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.


(v) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index value of 85 must be provided where the birds are inspected to facilitate online carcass inspection.


(vi) Hand rinsing facilities must be provided for use by and within easy reach of the online carcass inspector. The hand rinsing facilities must have a continuous flow of water or be capable of being immediately activated and deactivated in a hands-free manner, must minimize any splash effect, and must otherwise operate in a sanitary manner that prevents contamination of carcasses and inspector clothing. The hand rinsing facilities must provide water at a temperature between 65 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.


(vii) A separate clipboard holder for holding recording sheets must be provided for and within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.


(viii) Receptacles for condemned carcasses and parts that comply with the performance standards in § 416.3(c) of this chapter must be provided at each online carcass inspection station.


(ix) Hangback racks designed to hold at least 10 carcasses must be provided and positioned within easy reach of the online carcass inspector.


(x) A buzzer shall be located within easy reach of the online carcass inspector to be used by the carcass inspector to alert the inspector-in-charge, offline inspectors, or establishment management of conditions that require their attention.


(2) The following provisions apply to pre-chill and post-chill offline verification inspection stations:


(i) One or more offline verification inspection stations must be located at the end of the line or lines prior to the chiller. One or more offline verification inspection stations must also be located after the chiller or chillers. The Agency will determine the total number of offline verification inspection stations needed in establishments having more than one processing line or more than one chiller.


(ii) Floor space for all offline verification inspection stations must consist of a minimum of 3 feet along each conveyor line and after each chiller, as applicable, to allow carcasses to be removed for evaluation by the verification inspector. The space must be level and protected from all traffic and overhead obstructions.


(iii) At the pre-chill location, the vertical distance from the bottom of the shackles to the floor must not be less than 48 inches.


(iv) At each offline verification inspection station, a table designed to be readily cleanable and drainable must be provided for offline verification inspectors to conduct offline verification activities. At turkey slaughter establishments, the table must be at least 3 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet high. At all other poultry slaughter establishments, the table must be at least 2 feet wide, 2 feet deep, and 3 feet high


(v) A minimum of 200 foot-candles of shadow-free lighting with a minimum color rendering index of 85 on the table surface must be provided.


(vi) The establishment must provide a separate clipboard holder for holding recording sheets; or alternatively, the establishment may provide electronic means for the offline verification inspector to record inspection results.


(vii) Hangback racks designed to hold at least 10 carcasses must be provided and positioned within easy reach of the offline verification inspector.


(viii) Hand washing facilities must be provided within easy access of all offline verification inspection stations.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) A trough or other similar drainage facility must extend beneath the conveyor at all places where processing operations are conducted from the point where the carcass is opened to the point where trimming has been performed. The trough must be of sufficient width to preclude trimmings, drippage, and debris from accumulating on the floor or platforms. The clearance between suspended carcasses and the trough must be sufficient to preclude contamination of carcasses by splashing.



---

[N] [37 FR 9706, May 16, 1972, as amended at 38 FR 9794, Apr. 20, 1973; 47 FR 23434, May 28, 1982; 49 FR 42554, Oct. 23, 1984; 50 FR 37512, Sept. 16, 1985; 52 FR 39209, Oct. 21, 1987; 64 FR 56416, Oct. 20, 1999; 66 FR 22905, May 7, 2001; 79 FR 49633, Aug. 21, 2014; 88 FR 55913, Aug. 17, 2023]




