# ยง 13.410   Reissuance and recoupment of misused benefits.

(a) *General.* (1) If the Hub Manager or the Regional Office Director upon reconsideration determines that a fiduciary described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section misused any part of a beneficiary's benefit paid to the fiduciary, the Regional Office Director will reissue benefits to the beneficiary's successor fiduciary in an amount equal to the amount of funds misused.


(2) This paragraph (a) applies to a fiduciary that is:


(i) An individual who served 10 or more beneficiaries during any month in which misuse occurred; or


(ii) A corporation or other entity serving one or more beneficiaries.


(b) *Negligence.* In any case in which the Hub Manager or the Regional Office Director upon reconsideration determines that an individual fiduciary who served fewer than 10 beneficiaries during any month in which misuse occurred misused a beneficiary's funds under management by the fiduciary, the Hub Manager will refer the matter to the Director, Pension and Fiduciary Service, for a determination of whether VA negligence caused the misuse. The Regional Office Director will reissue benefits to the beneficiary's successor fiduciary in an amount equal to the amount of funds misused if the Director of the Pension and Fiduciary Service determines that VA negligence caused the misuse. The Pension and Fiduciary Service Director's negligence determination will be based upon a review of the VA information of record as of the date of the Hub Manager's or Regional Office Director's misuse determination. For purposes of this section, VA negligence causes misuse when:


(1) The Hub Manager failed to properly investigate or monitor the fiduciary; for example, when:


(i) The Hub Manager failed to review the fiduciary's accounting within 60 days after the date on which the accounting was scheduled for review. The date that an accounting is scheduled for review is the date the fiduciary hub receives the accounting;


(ii) The Hub Manager did not decide whether to investigate an allegation of misuse within 60 days of receipt of the allegation;


(iii) After deciding to investigate an allegation of misuse and finding misuse, the Hub Manager failed to initiate action within 60 days of receipt of the misuse allegation to terminate the fiduciary.


(2) Actual negligence by VA is shown. For purposes of this section, *actual negligence* means the Hub Manager's failure to exercise toward a beneficiary in the fiduciary program the care which a reasonable or prudent person would exercise in the circumstances, or the Hub Manager's taking action that a reasonable or prudent person would not take. The Regional Office Director shall reissue benefits based on actual negligence if the Director of the Pension and Fiduciary Service determines that:


(i) The Hub Manager owed a duty to the beneficiary under this part,


(ii) The Hub Manager's action or failure to act was negligent, and


(iii) The Hub Manager's negligence proximately caused the misuse of benefits by the fiduciary. For purposes of this section, *proximate cause* means that the misuse would not have occurred but for the Hub Manager's negligence.


(c) *Recoupment of misused benefits.* In all cases in which the Hub Manager or Regional Office Director upon reconsideration determines that a fiduciary misused benefits, VA will make a good faith effort to recoup the total amount of misused benefits from the fiduciary.


(1) For purposes of this section, *good faith effort* means that the Hub Manager will:


(i) Recover any misused benefits from the surety company, if a surety bond was in place regarding protection of beneficiary funds; or


(ii) In cases in which no surety bond was in place and the fiduciary does not repay all misused benefits within the time prescribed by the Hub Manager in consultation with the fiduciary:


(A) Request the creation of a debt to the United States in the amount of any misused benefits that remain unpaid; and


(B) Coordinate further recoupment action, including collection of any debt owed by the fiduciary to the United States as a result of the misuse, with the appropriate Federal and state agencies.


(2) VA will pay benefits recouped under paragraph (c) of this section to the beneficiary's successor fiduciary after deducting any amount reissued under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.


(d) *Notice.* The Hub Manager, or in the case of a negligence determination, the Director of the Pension and Fiduciary Service, will provide the beneficiary or the beneficiary's legal guardian, and the beneficiary's accredited representative, attorney or claims agent written notice of any decision regarding reissuance or recoupment of benefits under this section.


