# ยง 131.340   Specific WBC program responsibilities.

(a) *Policy development.* The AA/OWBO will establish and modify WBC program policies and procedures to improve the delivery of services by WBCs to the small business community and to enhance compliance with applicable laws, regulations, Office of Management and Budget guidelines, and Executive Orders.


(b) *Program administration.* The AA/OWBO will recommend the annual program budget, establish appropriate funding levels in compliance with the statute, and review the annual budgets submitted by each organization.


(c) *Responsibilities of WBC Program Director.* (1) The WBC Program Director must be a full-time employee of the recipient organization and not a contractor, consultant, or company. The WBC Program Director will direct and monitor all program activities and all financial affairs of the WBC to ensure effective delivery of services to the small business community and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, Office of Management and Budget circulars, Executive Orders, and the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.


(2) The WBC Program Director may not manage any other programs under the recipient organization.


(3) The WBC Program Director will serve as the SBA's principal contact for all matters involving the WBC.


(d) *Principal investigator.* The principal investigator is primarily responsible for achieving the technical success of the project while also complying with the financial and administrative policies and regulations associated with the grant. Although principal investigators may have administrative staff to assist them with the management of the project, the ultimate responsibility for the management of the project rests with the principal investigator. The principal investigator of a recipient organization could also fill the role of Executive Director, WBC Program Director, President/CEO, or another key position.




