# § 385.423   Administrative review of a denial, suspension, or revocation of a safety permit.

A motor carrier has a right to an administrative review pursuant to the following procedures and conditions:


(a) *Less than Satisfactory safety rating.* If a motor carrier is issued a proposed safety rating that is less than Satisfactory, it has the right to request (1) an administrative review of a proposed safety rating, as set forth in § 385.15, and (2) a change to a proposed safety rating based on corrective action, as set forth in § 385.17. After a motor carrier has had an opportunity for administrative review of, or change to, a proposed safety rating, FMCSA's issuance of a final safety rating constitutes final agency action, and a motor carrier has no right to further administrative review of FMCSA's denial, suspension, or revocation of a safety permit when the motor carrier has been issued a final safety rating that is less than Satisfactory.


(b) *Failure to pay civil penalty or abide by payment plan.* If a motor carrier is notified that failure to pay a civil penalty will result in suspension or termination of its operating rights, it has the right to an administrative review of that proposed action in a show cause proceeding, as set forth in § 386.83(b) or § 386.84(b) of this chapter. The decision by FMCSA's Assistant Administrator in the show cause proceeding constitutes final agency action, and a motor carrier has no right to further administrative review of FMCSA's denial, suspension, or revocation of a safety permit when the motor carrier has lost its operating rights or had its registration suspended for failure to pay a civil penalty or abide by a payment plan.


(c) *Other grounds.* Under circumstances other than those set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a motor carrier may submit a written request for administrative review within 30 days after service of a written notification that FMCSA has denied a safety permit, that FMCSA has immediately suspended or revoked a safety permit, or that FMCSA has proposed to suspend or revoke a safety permit. The rules for computing time limits for service and requests for extension of time in §§ 386.5, 386.6, and 386.8 of this chapter apply to the proceedings on a request for administrative review under this section.


(1) The motor carrier must send or deliver its written request for administrative review to FMCSA Assistant Administrator, with a copy to FMCSA Chief Counsel, at the following addresses:


(i) Assistant Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001 Attention: Adjudications Counsel (MC-CC).


(ii) Chief Counsel (MC-CC), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(2) A request for administrative review must state the specific grounds for review and include all information, evidence, and arguments upon which the motor carrier relies to support its request for administrative review.


(3) Within 30 days after service of a written request for administrative review, the Office of the Chief Counsel shall submit to the Assistant Administrator a written response to the request for administrative review. The Office of the Chief Counsel must serve a copy of its written response on the motor carrier requesting administrative review.


(4) The Assistant Administrator may decide a motor carrier's request for administrative review on the written submissions, hold a hearing personally, or refer the request to an administrative law judge for a hearing and recommended decision. The Assistant Administrator or administrative law judge is authorized to specify, and must notify the parties of, specific procedural rules to be followed in the proceeding (which may include the procedural rules in part 386 of this chapter that are considered appropriate).


(5) If a request for administrative review is referred to an administrative law judge, the recommended decision of the administrative law judge becomes the final decision of the Assistant Administrator 45 days after service of the recommended decision is served, unless either the motor carrier or the Office of the Chief Counsel submits a petition for review to the Assistant Administrator (and serves a copy of its petition on the other party) within 15 days after service of the recommended decision. In response to a petition for review of a recommended decision of an administrative law judge:


(i) The other party may submit a written reply within 15 days of service of the petition for review.


(ii) The Assistant Administrator may adopt, modify, or set aside the recommended decision of an administrative law judge, and may also remand the petition for review to the administrative law judge for further proceedings.


(6) The Assistant Administrator will issue a final decision on any request for administrative review when:


(i) The request for administrative review has not been referred to an administrative law judge;


(ii) A petition for review of a recommended decision by an administrative law judge has not been remanded to the administrative law judge for further proceedings; or


(iii) An administrative law judge has held further proceedings on a petition for review and issued a supplementary recommended decision.


(7) The decision of the Assistant Administrator (including a recommended decision of an administrative law judge that becomes the decision of the Assistant Administrator under paragraph (c)(5) of this section) constitutes final agency action, and there is no right to further administrative reconsideration or review.


(8) Any appeal of a final agency action under this section must be taken to an appropriate United States Court of Appeals. Unless the Court of Appeals issues a stay pending appeal, the final agency action shall not be suspended while the appeal is pending.



---

[N] [69 FR 39367, June 30, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 55701, Oct. 1, 2007; 86 FR 57070, Oct. 14, 2021]




