# § 131.120   Sweetened condensed milk.

(a) *Description.* Sweetened condensed milk is the food obtained by partial removal of water only from a mixture of milk and safe and suitable nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners. The finished food contains not less than 8 percent by weight of milkfat, and not less than 28 percent by weight of total milk solids. The quantity of nutritive carbohydrate sweetener used is sufficient to prevent spoilage. The food is pasteurized and may be homogenized.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable characterizing flavoring ingredients, with or without coloring and nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners, may be used:


(1) Fruit and fruit juice, including concentrated fruit and fruit juice.


(2) Natural and artificial food flavoring.


(c) *Methods of analysis.* The milkfat content is determined by the method prescribed in “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), section 16.185, under “Fat—Official Final Action,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(d) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “Sweetened condensed milk.” The word “homogenized” may appear on the label if the food has been homogenized. The name of the food shall include a declaration of the presence of any characterizing flavoring, as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter.


(e) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [43 FR 21670, May 19, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 11823, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10091, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24892, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2890, Jan. 6, 1993]




