# § 519.12   Definitions.

(a) *Full-time students.* A *full-time student* for the purpose of this subpart is defined as one who meets the accepted definition of a full-time student of the institution of higher education which employs him/her. A full-time student retains that status during the student's Christmas, summer and other vacations, even when a student is taking one or more courses during his/her summer or other vacation. The phrase in section 14(b) of the statute “regardless of age but in compliance with applicable child labor laws”, among other things restricts the employment in an institution of higher education to full-time students who are at least 14 years of age because of the application of section 3(1) of the Act.


(b) *Institution of higher education.* An *institution of higher education* is an institution above the secondary level, such as a college or university, a junior college, or a professional school of engineering, law, library science, social work, etc. It is one that is recognized by a national accrediting agency or association as determined by the U.S. Commissioner of Education. Generally, an institution of higher education: (1) Admits as regular students only individuals having a certificate of graduation from a high school or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; and (2) is legally authorized within a State to provide a program of education beyond high school; and (3) provides an educational program for which it normally awards a bachelor's degree, or provides not less than a two-year program which is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree or offers a two-year program in engineering, mathematics, or the physical or biological sciences which is designed to prepare the student to work as a technician and at a semi-professional level in engineering, scientific, or other technological fields which require the understanding and application of basic engineering, scientific, or mathematical principles of knowledge.



---

[N] [40 FR 6329, Feb. 11, 1975; 40 FR 22546, May 23, 1975]




