# § 200.303   Procedures for making inquiries and requests for access.

Requesters seeking to know if a specific system of records maintained by the Commission contains a record pertaining to them may submit an inquiry to the Commission. Requesters may also request access to records pertaining to them in a system of records maintained by the Commission.


(a) *How to make an inquiry or request for access.* An inquiry or request for access must be in writing and may be submitted by email (*foiapa@sec.gov*) or online at the Commission's website at *https://www.sec.gov/forms/request_public_docs.* A requester may alternatively submit an inquiry or request for access by mail to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549 or other mailing address or facsimile number published on the Commission's website at *https://www.sec.gov/oso/help/foia-contact.html.* Inquiries and requests for access that are submitted by mail should include the words “PRIVACY ACT REQUEST” in capital letters at the top of the letter and on the face of the envelope.


(b) *Information to be included in an inquiry or request for access.* Each inquiry or request for access must include information that will assist the Commission in identifying those records the requester is seeking information about or access to. The following information, as relevant, should be submitted with the request: name of the individual whose record is sought; identifying data that will help locate the record (*e.g.,* maiden name and period or place of employment); and the requester's name, address, telephone number, and email address. Where practicable, the requester should identify the system of records that is the subject of the inquiry or request for access by reference to the Commission's systems of records notices, which are published in the _Federal Register._ The Commission's systems of records notices can also be found on the Commission's website at *https://www.sec.gov/oit/system-records-notices.* If additional information is required before a request can be processed, the requester will be so advised.


(c) *Verification of identity.* A requester making an inquiry or requesting access to a record must verify his or her identity before information is given or access is granted unless the information is required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552.


(1) *In-person verification.* A requester may appear at any of the Commission offices, which are listed on the Commission's website at *https://www.sec.gov/divisions.shtml,* and furnish documentation to establish his or her identity. Such documentation might include a valid driver's license, passport, birth certificate, employee or military identification card, or Medicare card. Sufficiency of the documentation in verifying identity will be determined by the Commission staff member reviewing such documentation.


(2) *Not in-person verification.* A requester who does not appear in person must verify his or her identity using one of the following methods:


(i) A requester may use electronic identity proofing and authentication processes as made available through the Commission's website; or


(ii) A requester may submit a copy of documentation to establish the requester's identity (examples of such documentation are noted in paragraph (c)(1) of this section).


(3) *Submission of signed statement.* For all verification methods, a requester must also submit a statement attesting to the requester's identity and a statement that the requester understands that a knowing and willful request for or acquisition of a record pertaining to an individual under false pretenses is a criminal offense subject to a $5,000 fine. Sample statements and the requirements for completing them are available through the Commission's website.


(4) *Additional procedures for verifying identity.* When it appears appropriate, the Commission's Office of FOIA Services may make such other arrangements for the verification of identity as are reasonable under the circumstances and appear to be effective to prevent unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, individual records.






