# ยง 760.1303   Requesting benefits.

(a) If as a dairy operation or producer, your records are currently available in the FSA county office from previous participation in a fiscal year 2009 dairy program administered by FSA, you do not need to request benefits under this subpart to receive payments. FSA will make payments as specified in this subpart to eligible dairy producers based on production data maintained by the FSA county office for the months of February through July 2009.


(b) If records are not available in the FSA county office, dairy producers may request benefits. The request for benefits may be a letter or email; no specific form is required.


(1) Submit your request for DELAP to: Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA, USDA, STOP 0512, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0512; Attention: DELAP Program. Or you may send your request for DELAP via fax to (202) 690-1536 or e-mail to *Danielle.Cooke@wdc.usda.gov.*

(2) The complete request as described in this subpart must be received by FSA by the close of business on January 19, 2010.


(3) The complete request for benefits must include all of the following:


(i) The name and location of the dairy operation;


(ii) Contact information for the dairy operation, including telephone number;


(iii) Name, percentage share, and tax identification number for the entity or individual producer's receiving a share of the payment; and


(iv) Proof of production (acceptable documentation as specified in ยง 760.1305).


(4) Requests for benefits and related documents not provided to FSA as required by this subpart, will not be approved.


(5) If not already provided and available to FSA, the dairy producer or dairy operation must provide documentation to support:


(i) The amount (quantity in pounds) of milk produced by the dairy operation during the months of February 2009 through July 2009;


(ii) Percentage share of milk production during February through July 2009 attributed to each producer in the dairy operation; and


(iii) Average adjusted gross income for each individual or entity with a share in the operation and any additional entities or individuals as needed to apply the adjusted gross income rules of these regulations.


(6) Each dairy producer requesting benefits under this subpart is responsible for providing accurate and truthful information and any supporting documentation. If the dairy operation provides the required information, each dairy producer who shares in the risk of a dairy operation's total production is responsible for the accuracy and truthfulness of the information submitted for the request for benefits before the request will be considered complete. Providing a false statement, request, or certification to the Government may be punishable by imprisonment, fines, other penalties, or sanctions.


(c) All information provided by the dairy producer or dairy operation is subject to verification, spot check, and audit by FSA. Further verification information may be obtained from the dairy operation's milk handler or marketing cooperative if necessary for FSA to verify provided information. Refusal to allow FSA or any other USDA agency to verify any information provided or the inability of FSA to verify such information will result in a determination of ineligibility for benefits under this subpart.


(d) Data furnished by dairy producers and dairy operations, subject to verification, will be used to determine eligibility for program benefits. Although participation in the DELAP program is voluntary, program benefits will not be provided unless a producer or operation furnishes all requested data or such data is already recorded at the FSA county office.




