# ยง 4.602   What definitions apply to this subpart?

As used in this subpart:


*Act* means section 203(a)(1) of the Equal Access to Justice Act, Public Law 96-481, 5 U.S.C. 504, as amended.


*Adjudicative officer* means the deciding official(s) who presided at the adversary adjudication, or any successor official(s) assigned to decide the application.


*Adversary adjudication* means any of the following:


(1) An adjudication under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the Department or other agency is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding;


(2) Any hearing conducted under section 6103(a) of the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986 (31 U.S.C. 3801 *et seq.*); or


(3) Any hearing or appeal involving the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 2000bb *et seq.*).


*Affiliate* means:


(1) Any individual, corporation, or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interest of the applicant; or


(2) Any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest.


*Demand* means the express demand of the Department or other agency that led to the adversary adjudication, but does not include a recitation by the Department or other agency of the maximum statutory penalty:


(1) In the administrative complaint; or


(2) Elsewhere when accompanied by an express demand for a lesser amount.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior or the component of the Department that is a party to the adversary adjudication (e.g., Bureau of Land Management).


*Final disposition* means the date on which either of the following becomes final and unappealable, both within the Department and to the courts:


(1) A decision or order disposing of the merits of the proceeding; or


(2) Any other complete resolution of the proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal.


*Other agency* means any agency of the United States or the component of the agency that is a party to the adversary adjudication before the Office of Hearings and Appeals, other than the Department of the Interior and its components.


*Party* means a party as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3).


*Position of the Department or other agency* means:


(1) The position taken by the Department or other agency in the adversary adjudication; and


(2) The action or failure to act by the Department or other agency upon which the adversary adjudication is based.


*Proceeding* means an adversary adjudication as defined in this section.


*You* means a party to an adversary adjudication.



---

[N] [36 FR 7186, Apr. 15, 1971, as amended at 88 FR 5794, Jan. 30, 2023]




