# ยง 48.4041-20   Partially exempt methanol and ethanol fuel.

(a) *In general.* Under section 4041(m), the sale or use of partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel is taxed at the rate of 4
1/2 cents per gallon of fuel sold or used. The amount of tax is based upon the total volume of fuel and not merely upon the nonalcohol portion of the fuel.


(b) *Partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel defined.* For purposes of section 4041(m) and this section, partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel is liquid motor fuel, 85% of which by volume consists of alcohol, as defined in section 4081 and ยง 48.4081-2(a)(4) of the regulations, as modified by the following sentence. For purposes of section 4041(m) and this section, the alcohol contained in partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel must be produced from natural gas. The actual gallonage of each component of the mixture (without adjustment for temperature) shall be used in determining whether the 85 percent alcohol requirement has been met. Further, in determining whether a particular mixture containing less than 85 percent alcohol satisfies this percentage requirement, the District Director shall take into account the existence of any facts and circumstances that establish that but for the commercial and operational realities of the blending process, it may reasonably be concluded that the mixture would have contained at least 85 percent alcohol. The necessary facts and circumstances will not be found to exist if over a period of time the mixtures blended by a blender show a consistent pattern of failing to contain 85 percent alcohol. See paragraph (f) of this section for rules relating to information required to be attached to the taxpayer's return of the tax imposed by chapter 31 relating to the alcohol content of the partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel for which tax is paid.


(c) *Mixtures which do not qualify as partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel.* If methanol or ethanol fuel does not qualify as partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel under this section, the entire mixture is taxed at the rate of tax applicable under section 4041(a)(2) of the Code.


(d) *Refunds relating to fuels.* See section 6427 for rules which relate to the allowance of a refund or credit to a person who uses tax-paid diesel, special motor or noncommercial aviation fuel to produce a partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel and section 6416 for rules which relate to the allowance of a refund or credit to a person who uses tax-paid gasoline to produce a partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel.


(e) *Later blending.* If a partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel is blended with other motor fuel in a mixture less than 85 percent of which consists of alcohol, the subsequent sale or use of such blended motor fuel is taxable under the provisions of section 4041(a) or section 4081(a), subject to the requirements, limitations and exemptions of those sections.


(f) *Records required to be furnished by the taxpayer.* A taxpayer making a return of the tax imposed by chapter 31 indicating payment of the tax under section 4041(m) and ยง 48.4041-20 at the reduced rate must attach a statement to the return indicating the total number of gallons of partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel containing at least 85 percent alcohol and the total number of gallons of partially exempt methanol or ethanol fuel containing less than 85 percent alcohol, but qualifying for taxation at the reduced rate under the rules of paragraph (b) of this section. However, the taxpayer does not have to specify the precise mixture ratio of every mixture blended for which tax is being paid.


(g) *Effective date.* Section 4041(m) applies to sales and uses after July 31, 1984. If methanol or ethanol fuel meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section was put into the tank of a vehicle prior to August 1, 1984, the fuel is considered used prior to that date and is subject to the tax described in paragraph (a) of section 4041.



---

[N] [T.D. 8152, 52 FR 31617, Aug. 21, 1987]




