# ยง 7.46   Virgin Islands Coral Reef National Monument.

(a) *Extractive uses.* (1) All extractive uses are prohibited within the boundaries of the Monument, including, but not limited to, harvest or collection of fish, coastal migratory pelagic fish, baitfish, lobsters, conch, whelk, corals, sponges and all associated reef invertebrates, and sand, water, plants, seeds, fruit, marine mammals, marine birds, gas, minerals, and rocks.


(2) All submerged cultural resources are protected under the Archeological Resource Protection Act and the Abandoned Shipwrecks Act.


(b) *Exceptions.* (1) Exceptions to prohibited extractive uses are limited to bait fishing at Hurricane Hole and blue runner (hardnose) line fishing in the area south of St. John. The Superintendent shall issue permits for such uses.


(2) Bait fishing shall be permitted with cast net at a distance greater than ten feet from the seaward edge of the mangrove prop root system.


(3) A maximum of three gallons of baitfish is allowed per fisherman per day.


(4) Blue runner shall be caught using hand lines and chum (a mixture of ground up baitfish and sand to attract the fish).


(5) Any fish caught other than blue runner shall be released.


(6) Vessels involved in the catch of blue runner may use moorings designated for that purpose.


(c) *Marine Operations.* No dredging, excavating, or filling operations of any kind are permitted, and no equipment, structures, by-product or excavated materials associated with such operations may be deposited in or on the waters or ashore within the boundaries of the monument.


(d) *Wrecks.* No person shall destroy or molest, remove, deface, displace or tamper with wrecked or abandoned waterborne craft of any type or condition, submerged cultural resources, or any cargo pertaining thereto, unless permitted in writing by an authorized official of the National Park Service.


(e) *Boats.* (1) No watercraft shall operate in such a manner, nor shall anchors or any other mooring device be cast or dragged or placed, so as to strike or otherwise cause damage to any underwater feature.


(2) All watercraft, carrying passengers, for hire, shall comply with applicable regulations and laws of the U.S. Coast Guard and Territory of the Virgin Islands.


(3) Anchoring will only be permitted in emergency situations to protect life and property.


(4) Anchoring shall only be permitted from 48 hours prior to landfall of the hurricane to 48 hours following passage of the hurricane.


(5) No lines or ropes shall be attached to mangroves or other shoreline vegetation.



---

[N] [68 FR 16435, Apr. 4, 2003]




