# § 60.5399a   What alternative fugitive emissions standards apply to the affected facility which is the collection of fugitive emissions components at a well site and the affected facility which is the collection of fugitive emissions components at a compressor station: Equivalency with state, local, and tribal programs?

This section provides alternative fugitive emissions standards based on programs under state, local, or tribal authorities for the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at well sites and compressor stations. Paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section outline the procedure for submittal and approval of alternative fugitive emissions standards. Paragraphs (f) through (n) provide approved alternative fugitive emissions standards. The terms “fugitive emissions components” and “repaired” are defined in § 60.5430a and must be applied to the alternative fugitive emissions standards in this section. The requirements for a monitoring plan as specified in § 60.5397a(c) and (d) apply to the alternative fugitive emissions standards in this section.


(a) *Alternative fugitive emissions standards.* If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative fugitive emissions standard will achieve a reduction in methane and VOC emissions at least equivalent to the reductions achieved under § 60.5397a, the Administrator will publish, in the _Federal Register,_ a notice permitting use of the alternative fugitive emissions standard for the purpose of compliance with § 60.5397a. The authority to approve alternative fugitive emissions standards is retained by the Administrator and shall not be delegated to States under section 111(c) of the CAA.


(b) *Notice.* Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section will be published only after notice and an opportunity for public hearing.


(c) *Evaluation guidelines.* Determination of alternative fugitive emissions standards to the design, equipment, work practice, or operational requirements of § 60.5397a will be evaluated by the following guidelines:


(1) The monitoring instrument, including the monitoring procedure;


(2) The monitoring frequency;


(3) The fugitive emissions definition;


(4) The repair requirements; and


(5) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements.


(d) *Approval of alternative fugitive emissions standard.* Any alternative fugitive emissions standard approved under this section shall:


(1) Constitute a required design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA; and


(2) Be made available for use by any owner or operator in meeting the relevant standards and requirements established for affected facilities under § 60.5397a.


(e) *Notification.* (1) An owner or operator must notify the Administrator of adoption of the alternative fugitive emissions standards within the first annual report following implementation of the alternative fugitive emissions standard, as specified in § 60.5420a(a)(3).


(2) An owner or operator implementing one of the alternative fugitive emissions standards must submit the reports specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii). An owner or operator must also maintain the records specified by the specific alternative fugitive emissions standard for a period of at least 5 years.


(f) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site or a compressor station in the State of California.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a well site or a compressor station in the State of California may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in the California Code of Regulations, title 17, sections 95665-95667, effective January 1, 2020, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(1) and (2), (g)(1) through (4), (h), and (i). The information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and the information specified in either § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(B) or (C) may be provided as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(g) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site or a compressor station in the State of Colorado.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a well site or a compressor station in the State of Colorado may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in Colorado Regulation 7, Part D, section I.L or II.E, effective February 14, 2020, for well sites and compressor stations, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(1) and (2), (g)(1) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is an optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 of this part). Monitoring must be conducted on at least a semiannual basis for well sites and compressor stations. If using the alternative in this paragraph (g), the information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and (C) must be provided in lieu of the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(h) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site in the State of Ohio.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a well site in the State of Ohio may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in Ohio General Permits 12.1, Section C.5 and 12.2, Section C.5, effective April 14, 2014, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(1), (g)(1), (3), and (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 of this part) with a leak definition and reading of 500 ppm or greater. Monitoring must be conducted on at least a semiannual basis and skip periods cannot be applied. The information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and the information specified in either § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(B) or (C) may be provided as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(i) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a compressor station in the State of Ohio.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a compressor station in the State of Ohio may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in Ohio General Permit 18.1, effective February 7, 2017, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 to this part) with a leak definition and reading of 500 ppm or greater. Monitoring must be conducted on at least a quarterly basis and skip periods cannot be applied. The information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and the information specified in either § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(B) or (C) may be provided as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(j) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site in the State of Pennsylvania.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a well site in the State of Pennsylvania may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in Pennsylvania General Permit 5A, section G, effective August 8, 2018, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is an optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 of this part). The information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and the information specified in either § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(B) or (C) may be provided as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(k) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a compressor station in the State of Pennsylvania.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a compressor station in the State of Pennsylvania may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in Pennsylvania General Permit 5, section G, effective August 8, 2018, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is an optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 of this part). The information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and the information specified in either § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(B) or (C) may be provided as an alternative to the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(l) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site in the State of Texas.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a well site in the State of Texas may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in the Air Quality Standard Permit for Oil and Gas Handling and Production Facilities, section (e)(6), effective November 8, 2012, or at 30 Texas Administrative Code section 116.620, effective September 4, 2000, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 of this part) with a leak definition and reading of 500 ppm or greater. Monitoring must be conducted on at least a semiannual basis and skip periods may not be applied. If using the requirement in this paragraph (l), the information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and (C) must be provided in lieu of the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(m) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a compressor station in the State of Texas.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, located at a compressor in the State of Texas may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in the Air Quality Standard Permit for Oil and Gas Handling and Production Facilities, section I(6), effective November 8, 2012, or at 30 Texas Administrative Code section 116.620, effective September 4, 2000, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i), provided the monitoring instrument used is optical gas imaging or a Method 21 instrument (see appendix A-7 to this part) with a leak definition and reading of 500 ppm or greater. Monitoring must be conducted on at least a quarterly basis and skip periods may not be applied. If using the alternative in this paragraph (m), the information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and (C) must be provided in lieu of the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).


(n) *Alternative fugitive emissions requirements for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at a well site in the State of Utah.* An affected facility, which is the collection of fugitive emissions components, as defined in § 60.5430a, and is required to control emissions in accordance with Utah Administrative Code R307-506 and R307-507, located at a well site in the State of Utah may elect to comply with the monitoring, repair, and recordkeeping requirements in the Utah Administrative Code R307-509, effective March 2, 2018, as an alternative to complying with the requirements in § 60.5397a(f)(2), (g)(2) through (4), (h), and (i). If using the alternative in this paragraph (n), the information specified in § 60.5420a(b)(7)(iii)(A) and (C) must be provided in lieu of the requirements in § 60.5397a(j).



---

[N] [85 FR 57443, Sept. 15, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 17039, Mar. 8, 2024]




