# § 51.1310   Requirements for reasonable further progress (RFP).

(a) *RFP for nonattainment areas classified pursuant to § 51.1303.* The RFP requirements specified in CAA section 182 for that area's classification shall apply.


(1) *Submission deadline.* For each area classified Moderate or higher pursuant to § 51.1303, the state shall submit a SIP revision no later than 36 months after the effective date of designation as nonattainment for the 2015 ozone NAAQS that provides for RFP as described in paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) *RFP requirements for areas with an approved prior ozone NAAQS 15 percent VOC ROP plan.* An area classified Moderate or higher that has the same boundaries as an area, or is entirely composed of several areas or portions of areas, for which the EPA fully approved a 15 percent plan for a prior ozone NAAQS is considered to have met the requirements of CAA section 182(b)(1) for the 2015 ozone NAAQS and instead:


(i) If classified Moderate, the area is subject to the RFP requirements under CAA section 172(c)(2) and shall submit a SIP revision that:


(A) Provides for a 15 percent emission reduction from the baseline year within 6 years after the baseline year; and


(B) Relies on either NO_X_ or VOC emissions reductions (or a combination) to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section. Use of NO_X_ emissions reductions must meet the criteria in CAA section 182(c)(2)(C).


(ii) If classified Serious or higher, the area is subject to RFP under CAA sections 172(c)(2) and 182(c)(2)(B), and shall submit a SIP revision no later than 48 months after the effective date of designation providing for an average emissions reduction of 3 percent per year:


(A) For the first 6-year period after the baseline year and all remaining 3-year periods until the year of the area's attainment date; and


(B) That relies on either NO_X_ or VOC emissions reductions (or a combination) to meet the requirements of (a)(2)(ii)(A). Use of NO_X_ emissions reductions must meet the criteria in CAA section 182(c)(2)(C).


(3) *RFP requirements for areas for which an approved 15 percent VOC ROP plan for a prior ozone NAAQS exists for only a portion of the area.* An area that contains one or more portions for which the EPA fully approved a 15 percent VOC ROP plan for a prior ozone NAAQS (as well as portions for which the EPA has not fully approved a 15 percent plan for a prior ozone NAAQS) shall meet the requirements of either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) The state shall not distinguish between the portion of the area with a previously approved 15 percent ROP plan and the portion of the area without such a plan, and shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section for the entire nonattainment area.


(ii) The state shall treat the area as two parts, each with a separate RFP target as follows:


(A) For the portion of the area without an approved 15 percent VOC ROP plan for a prior ozone NAAQS, the state shall submit a SIP revision as required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(B) For the portion of the area with an approved 15 percent VOC ROP plan for a prior ozone NAAQS, the state shall submit a SIP as required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(4) *ROP Requirements for areas without an approved prior ozone NAAQS 15 percent VOC ROP plan.* (i) For each area, the state shall submit a SIP revision consistent with CAA section 182(b)(1). The 6-year period referenced in CAA section 182(b)(1) shall begin January 1 of the year following the year used for the baseline emissions inventory.


(ii) For each area classified Serious or higher, the state shall submit a SIP revision consistent with CAA section 182(c)(2)(B). The final increment of progress must be achieved no later than the attainment date for the area.


(5) *Creditability of emission control measures for RFP plans.* Except as specifically provided in CAA section 182(b)(1)(C) and (D), CAA section 182(c)(2)(B), and 40 CFR 51.1310(a)(6), all emission reductions from SIP-approved or federally promulgated measures that occur after the baseline emissions inventory year are creditable for purposes of the RFP requirements in this section, provided the reductions meet the requirements for creditability, including the need to be enforceable, permanent, quantifiable, and surplus.


(6) *Creditability of out-of-area emissions reductions.* For purposes of meeting the RFP requirements in § 51.1310, in addition to the restrictions on the creditability of emission control measures listed in § 51.1310(a)(5), creditable emission reductions for fixed percentage reduction RFP must be obtained from emissions sources located within the nonattainment area.


(7) *Calculation of non-creditable emissions reductions.* The following four categories of control measures listed in CAA section 182(b)(1)(D) are no longer required to be calculated for exclusion in RFP analyses because the Administrator has determined that due to the passage of time the effect of these exclusions would be *de minimis:*

(i) Measures related to motor vehicle exhaust or evaporative emissions promulgated by January 1, 1990;


(ii) Regulations concerning Reid vapor pressure promulgated by November 15, 1990;


(iii) Measures to correct previous RACT requirements; and


(iv) Measures required to correct previous I/M programs.


(b) *Baseline emissions inventory for RFP plans.* For the RFP plans required under this section, at the time of designation as nonattainment for an ozone NAAQS the baseline emissions inventory shall be the emissions inventory for the most recent calendar year for which a complete triennial inventory is required to be submitted to the EPA under the provisions of subpart A of this part. States may use an alternative baseline emissions inventory provided that the year selected corresponds with the year of the effective date of designation as nonattainment for that NAAQS. All states associated with a multi-state nonattainment area must consult and agree on using the alternative baseline year. The emissions values included in the inventory required by this section shall be actual ozone season day emissions as defined by § 51.1300(q).


(c) *Milestones*—(1) *Applicable milestones.* Consistent with CAA section 182(g)(1) for each area classified Serious or higher, the state shall determine at specified intervals whether each area has achieved the reduction in emissions required under paragraphs (a)(2) through (4) of this section. The initial determination shall occur 6 years after the baseline year, and at intervals of every 3 years thereafter. The reduction in emissions required by the end of each interval shall be the applicable milestone.


(2) *Milestone compliance demonstrations.* For each area subject to the milestone requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, not later than 90 days after the date on which an applicable milestone occurs (not including an attainment date on which a milestone occurs in cases where the ozone standards have been attained), each state in which all or part of such area is located shall submit to the Administrator a demonstration that the milestone has been met. The demonstration under this paragraph must provide for objective evaluation of RFP toward timely attainment of the ozone NAAQS in the area, and may take the form of:


(i) Such information and analysis as needed to quantify the actual reduction in emissions achieved in the time interval preceding the applicable milestone; or


(ii) Such information and analysis as needed to demonstrate progress achieved in implementing the approved SIP control measures, including RACM and RACT, corresponding with the reduction in emissions achieved in the time interval preceding the applicable milestone.



---

[N] [83 FR 63033, Dec. 6, 2018]




