# ยง 75.2   Terms defined.

For the purpose of these regulations unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, as follows:


(a) *Act* means the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621 *et seq.*).


(b) *Regulations* means the regulations in this part.


(c) *Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).


(d) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.


(e) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) of the Department, or any other officer or employee of AMS to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


(f) *Division* means the Warehouse and Seed Division (WSD), AMS.


(g) *Director* means the Director of the Division or any other officer or employee of the Division to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Director's stead.


(h) *Person* means any individual, partnership, association, business trust, corporation, entity, or any other organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not.


(i) *Seed* means any agricultural or vegetable seed. 


(j) *Interested Party* means any person financially interested in a transaction involving seed.


(k) *Applicant* means an interested party who requests any inspection service with respect to seed.


(l) *Authorized agent* means an agent to whom authority to represent a person or government agency has been given by that person or government agency through delegation, contract or cooperative agreement, or other means.


(m) *Memorandum of Understanding* means a written plan between AMS and a State for carrying out their separate activities in a project of mutual interest to the parties involved. 


(n) *Inspector* means a licensed employee of a State authorized pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding or an employee of the Department authorized by the Director, to draw samples of seeds, seal containers, inspect records, test seeds for quality, issue certificates and reports, and bill for services. 


(o) *Inspection* means sampling seeds, sealing containers, testing seeds for quality and reviewing records.


(p) *Appeal inspector* means an inspector or other person designated or authorized by the Division to perform appeal inspections under the Act and regulations in this subpart.


(q) *Certificate* means a certificate issued under the Act and the regulations in this subpart.




