# § 63.1109   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) *Maintaining notifications, records, and reports.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source subject to this subpart shall keep copies of notifications, reports and records required by this subpart and subparts referenced by this subpart for at least 5 years, unless otherwise specified under this subpart.


(b) *Copies of reports.* If the Administrator has waived the requirement of § 63.1110(g)(1) for submittal of copies of reports, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of the waived reports. This paragraph applies only to reports and not the underlying records that must be maintained as specified in this subpart and the subparts referenced by this subpart.


(c) *Availability of records.* All records required to be maintained by this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed and are suitable for inspection. The records of the remaining 3 years, where required, may be retained offsite. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, computer disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.


(d) *Control applicability records.* Owners or operators shall maintain records containing information developed and used to assess control applicability under § 63.1103 (e.g., combined total annual emissions of regulated organic HAP).


(e) *Ethylene production flare records.* For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(4), owners or operators must keep records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (15) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.998(a)(1) of subpart SS.


(1) Retain records of the output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame or flare flame as required in § 63.670(b) of subpart CC and the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.1103(e)(4)(vii)(D) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame or flare flame is present when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years. For each pressure-assisted multi-point flare that uses cross-lighting, retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present on each stage when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years. You may reduce the collected minute-by-minute data to a 15-minute block basis with an indication of whether there was at least one minute where no pilot flame or flare flame was present.


(2) Retain records of daily visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.


(i) To determine when visible emissions observations are required, the record must identify all periods when regulated material is vented to the flare.


(ii) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, then the record must identify whether the visible emissions observation was performed, the results of each observation, total duration of observed visible emissions, and whether it was a 5-minute or 2-hour observation. Record the date and start time of each visible emissions observation.


(iii) If a video surveillance camera is used pursuant to § 63.670(h)(2) of subpart CC, then the record must include all video surveillance images recorded, with time and date stamps.


(iv) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours, then the record must include the date and start and end time of the 2-hour period and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible.


(3) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i) of subpart CC, along with the date and time interval for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, then retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain records of the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, then retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure, and molecular weight of the flare vent gas or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain records of the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.


(4) The flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j) of subpart CC. Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analysis for a minimum of 2 years. If an NHVvg analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years.


(5) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n) of subpart CC, as applicable.


(6) All periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) through (f) of subpart CC and § 63.1103(e)(4)(vii) when regulated material is being routed to the flare.


(7) All periods during which the owner or operator does not perform flare monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g) through (j) of subpart CC.


(8) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, then a record of any changes made to the distance between burners.


(9) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, all periods when the pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header show burners are operating outside the range of the manufacturer's specifications. Indicate the date and time for each period, the pressure measurement, the stage(s) and number of burners affected, and the range of manufacturer's specifications.


(10) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, all periods when the staging valve position indicator monitoring system indicates a stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare should not be in operation and when a stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare should be in operation and is not. Indicate the date and time for each period, whether the stage was supposed to be open, but was closed or vice versa, and the stage(s) and number of burners affected.


(11) Records of periods when there is flow of vent gas to the flare, but when there is no flow of regulated material to the flare, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of no regulated material flow.


(12) Records when the flow of vent gas exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare, including start and stop time and dates of the flaring event.


(13) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.670(o)(3) of subpart CC and § 63.1103(e)(4)(iv), including an identification of the affected flare, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.670(o)(5)(i) of subpart CC.


(14) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.670(o)(5) of subpart CC, a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(15) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi).


(f) *Ethylene production maintenance vent records.* For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(5), the owner or operator must keep the applicable records specified in (f)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (*e.g.,* hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(5). The current copy of the procedures must be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, as applicable, must be retained for 5 years.


(2) If complying with the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(A) and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening.


(3) If complying with the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(B) and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the concentration of the vapor at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the concentration of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.


(4) If complying with the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(C), records of the estimating procedures used to determine the total quantity of VOC in equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 50 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening of equipment that contains greater than 50 pounds of VOC for which the deinventory procedures specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph, records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(5) If complying with the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(D), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.


(g) *Ethylene production bypass line records.* For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(6), the owner or operator must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), the owner or operator must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(h) *Decoking operation of ethylene cracking furnace records.* For each decoking operation of an ethylene cracking furnace subject to the standards in § 63.1103(e)(7) and (8), the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Records that document the day and time each inspection specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(i) took place, the results of each inspection, and any repairs made to correct the flame impingement; and for any repair that is delayed beyond 1 calendar day, the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The reason for the delay.


(ii) An estimate of the emissions from shutdown for repair and an estimate of the emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and whether the requirements at § 63.1103(e)(7)(i)(A) or (B) were met.


(iii) The date the repair was completed or, if the repair has not been completed, a schedule for completing the repair.


(2) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor the CO_2_ concentration during decoking as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(ii), then for each decoking cycle, records must be kept for all measured CO_2_ concentration values beginning before the expected end of the air-in decoke time, the criterion used to begin the CO_2_ monitoring, and the target used to indicate combustion is complete. The target record should identify any time period the site routinely extends air addition beyond the specified CO_2_ concentration and any decoke completion assurance procedures used to confirm all coke has been removed prior to stopping air addition that occurs after the CO_2_ target is reached.


(3) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor the temperature at the radiant tube(s) outlet during decoking as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(iii), then for each decoking cycle, records must be kept for all measured temperature values and the target used to indicate a reduction in temperature of the inside of the radiant tube(s) is necessary.


(4) If the owner or operator chooses to comply with § 63.1103(e)(7)(iv), then records must be kept that document that decoke air is no longer being added after each decoking cycle.


(5) If the owner or operator chooses to treat steam or feed to reduce coke formation as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(v), then records must be kept that document that the planned treatment occurred.


(6) For each decoking operation of an ethylene cracking furnace subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(8), the owner or operator must keep records that document the day each inspection took place and the results of each inspection where an isolation problem was identified including any repairs made to correct the problem.


(i) *Ethylene production pressure relief devices records.* For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.1107(h)(3), the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.1107(h)(3)(ii).


(2) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and, prior to June 3, 2024, the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be a force majeure event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past five calendar years.


(3) For each release to the atmosphere, the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.


(ii) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.


(iii) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.1107(h)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected pressure relief device, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.1107(h)(7)(i).


(iv) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.1107(h)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.



---

[N] [64 FR 34921, June 29, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 39307, June 7, 2002; 85 FR 40435, July 6, 2020; 89 FR 23865, Apr. 4, 2024]




