# ยง 6.70   Reporting requirement.

(a) No later than 90 calendar days prior to the establishment of a new system of records, the prospective system manager shall notify the Privacy Appeals Officer of the proposed new system. The prospective system manager shall include with the notification a completed FEMA Form 11-2, System of Records Covered by the Privacy Act of 1974, and a justification for each system of records proposed to be established. If the Privacy Appeals Officer determines that the establishment of the proposed system is in the best interest of the Government, then no later than 60 calendar days prior to the establishment of that system of records, a report of the proposal shall be submitted by the Administrator or a designee thereof, to the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget for their evaluation of the probable or potential effect of that proposal on the privacy and other personal or property rights of individuals.


(b) No later than 90 calendar days prior to the alteration of a system of records, the system manager responsible for the maintenance of that system of records shall notify the Privacy Appeals Officer of the proposed alteration. The system manager shall include with the notification a completed FEMA Form 11-2. System of Records Covered by the Privacy Act of 1974, and a justification for each system of records he proposes to alter. If it is determined that the proposed alteration is in the best interest of the Government, then, the Administrator, or a designee thereof, shall submit, no later than 60 calendar days prior to the establishment of that alteration, a report of the proposal to the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget for their evaluation of the probable or potential effect of that proposal on the privacy and other personal or property rights of individuals.


(c) The reports required by this regulation are exempt from reports control.


(d) The Administrator, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget may waive the time requirements set out in this section upon a finding that a delay in the establishing or amending the system would not be in the public interest and showing how the public interest would be adversely affected if the waiver were not granted and otherwise complying with OMB Circular A-130.



---

[N] [44 FR 50293, Aug. 27, 1979, as amended at 45 FR 17152, Mar. 18, 1980; 51 FR 34604, Sept. 30, 1986]




