# § 405.936   Hearings before an ALJ and decisions by an ALJ or Attorney Adjudicator.

(a) *Filing a request for hearing.* An eligible party, the party's appointed representative, or an authorized representative who is dissatisfied with the reconsideration rendered by a QIC in § 405.934(c)(2), or a dismissal of a request for reconsideration, may request a hearing before an ALJ within 60 calendar days of receipt of the reconsideration. The request for hearing must include the elements specified in the QIC's reconsideration.


(b) *Applicability of other provisions.* The provisions in §§ 405.1000 through 405.1064 that apply to ALJ hearings and decisions by an ALJ or an attorney adjudicator apply to the extent they are appropriate/in the same manner to ALJ hearings and decisions by an ALJ or an attorney adjudicator under this section unless otherwise specified.


(c) *Calculating the amount remaining in controversy for an ALJ hearing or judicial review.* (1)(i) A request for ALJ hearing for an appeal under the provisions of §§ 405.931 through 405.938 must meet the amount in controversy requirement in § 405.1006(b).


(ii) A request for judicial review in federal district court for an appeal under the provisions of §§ 405.931 through 405.938 must meet the amount in controversy requirement in § 405.1006(c), subject to the calculation methodology set forth in this paragraph.


(2) For appeals under the provisions of §§ 405.931 through 405.938, the amount remaining in controversy for an ALJ hearing or for judicial review in federal district court under § 405.1136 is determined by the sum of the billed charges on the Part B outpatient hospital claim and, as applicable, any billed charges for the SNF claim at issue, if such claims were submitted to Medicare. If no SNF claim was submitted for services furnished to the beneficiary, then the billed charges to the beneficiary as indicated on an itemized statement or evidence of payment made by the beneficiary for such services are used in calculating the amount remaining in controversy.


(3) In the case of an appeal under the provisions of §§ 405.931 through 405.938 filed by an eligible party who was not enrolled in Part B at the time of hospitalization, and no Part B outpatient hospital claim was billed to Medicare, the amount remaining in controversy is determined by the charges billed to the beneficiary by the hospital for the outpatient hospital stay and billed charges for SNF services, if applicable. An itemized statement from the provider such services, or evidence of the payment made by the beneficiary to the provider is acceptable for the purpose of calculating the amount remaining in controversy.


(4) Any payments made, including coinsurance and deductible, for the Part B outpatient hospital claim, and as applicable, the SNF claim must not reduce the calculation of the amount in controversy for the purposes of a hearing or judicial review under this paragraph.


(d) *Notice and content of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision.* (1)(i) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator determines that the inpatient admission, and as applicable, eligible SNF services, satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, then the ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues notice of the favorable decision to the eligible party (or the party's representative).




(ii) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator also notifies the hospital and SNF, as applicable, in the case of a favorable determination for Part A coverage.


(2)(i) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator determines that the inpatient admission, or as applicable, SNF services, did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, then the ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues notice of the unfavorable or partially favorable decision to the eligible party (or the party's representative).


(ii) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues a notice of a partially favorable decision to the SNF if the inpatient admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage, but the SNF services did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage.


(3) The ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision issued to the eligible party (or the party's representative) must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the eligible party (or the party's representative) and include all of the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.


(ii) The findings of fact.


(iii) The conclusions of law.


(iv) The reason for the determination that the hospital admission, and as applicable SNF services, satisfied or did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, and, to the extent appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(v) The procedures for obtaining additional information concerning the decision, such as specific provisions of the policy, manual, regulations, or other rules used in making the decision.


(vi) If a favorable decision, the effect of such decision, including, as applicable, a statement about the obligation of the SNF to refund any amounts collected for the covered SNF services, and that the SNF may then submit a new claim(s) for services covered under Part A in order to determine the amount of benefits due.


(vii) If an unfavorable decision or a partially favorable decision, information about the procedures for filing a request for review by the Appeals Council under § 405.938.


(4) As applicable, a notice of a favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision (including a decision for a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization) issued to the SNF, includes the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.


(ii) The findings of fact.


(iii) The conclusions of law.


(iv) The reason for the determination that the SNF services, satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, and to the extent appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the SNF must refund any payments collected from the beneficiary for the covered SNF services, and that the SNF may then submit a new claim(s) to determine the amount of benefits due for the covered services.


(5) In the case of a favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision for a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of beneficiary's hospitalization, notice is issued to the hospital that includes all of the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.


(ii) The findings of fact.


(iii) The conclusions of law.


(iv) The reason for the determination that the hospital admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, and to the extent appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the hospital must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services, and that the hospital may then submit a new Part A inpatient claim in order to determine the amount of benefits due for covered services.


(6) In the case of a partially favorable decision issued to a SNF, the notice includes the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.


(ii) The findings of fact.


(iii) The conclusions of law.


(iv) The reason for the determination that the hospital admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, and the reason the SNF services did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage, and to the extent appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the decision is being sent for informational purposes only, and that only the eligible party may appeal the decision to the Medicare Appeals Council under § 405.938.


(7) The timeframe within which notices must be issued under this paragraph are determined under the provisions in § 405.1016.


(e) *Effect of a favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision.* (1)(i) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues a decision that the beneficiary's inpatient admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage and the hospital's decision to change the inpatient admission to outpatient receiving observation services was therefore erroneous, the beneficiary's reclassification as an outpatient is disregarded for the purposes of determining Part A benefits, including Part A SNF coverage, if applicable.


(ii) For the purposes of effectuating a favorable decision by an ALJ or attorney adjudicator, unless a Part A claim is submitted by a hospital, any claims previously submitted for outpatient hospital services and payments made for such services (including any applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts) are not reopened or revised by the MAC, and payment, as applicable, for covered SNF services may be made by the MAC to the SNF without regard to the hospital claim.


(2) In order to determine Part A benefits to be paid and to make payment for covered services as a result of a favorable decision, as applicable—


(i) The SNF that furnished services to the beneficiary must refund payments previously collected from the beneficiary for the covered services and may then submit a Part A claim(s) for such services within 365 calendar days of receipt of the notice of a favorable decision;


(ii) In the case of a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization, the hospital that furnished services must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services. After the refund is issued, the hospital may then submit a Part A inpatient claim for such services within 365 calendar days of receipt of the notice of a favorable decision;


(iii) In the case of a beneficiary enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization, the hospital that furnished services must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services only if the hospital chooses to submit a Part A inpatient claim for such services. The deadline for submitting a Part A claim for such services is 365 calendar days after receipt of the notice of a favorable decision, and the hospital must refund any payments collected for the outpatient services before submitting the Part A inpatient claim.


(3) The hospital, and as applicable, the SNF, must comply with all applicable provisions regarding charges to the beneficiary for covered services, including but not limited to relevant provisions in part 489 subparts B through D of this chapter.


(4) A favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision is considered binding unless it is reopened and revised under the provisions of §§ 405.980 through 405.986. The provisions regarding reopening of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision in § 405.980(d) and (e) apply in the same manner to favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decisions issued under this section.


(5) The notice of a favorable decision issued to a hospital and, as applicable, notice of a favorable or partially favorable decision sent to a SNF does not convey party status to such provider.


(f) *Effect of an unfavorable or partially favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision.* (1) An unfavorable or partially favorable ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision is considered binding unless—


(i) It is reopened and revised under the provisions of § 405.980(d) or (e); or


(ii) An eligible party (or the party's representative) files a request for Medicare Appeals Council review under § 405.938.


(2) The provisions regarding reopening of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision in § 405.980(d) and (e) apply in the same manner to unfavorable and partially favorable decisions issued under this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 83283, Oct. 15, 2024; 89 FR 106363, Dec. 30, 2024]






