# ยง 60.435   Test methods and procedures.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility using solvent-borne ink systems shall determine the VOC content of the raw inks and related coatings used at the affected facility by:


(1) Analysis using Method 24A of routine weekly samples of raw ink and related coatings in each respective storage tank; or


(2) Analysis using Method 24A of samples of each shipment of all purchased raw inks and related coatings; or


(3) Determination of the VOC content from the formulation data supplied by the ink manufacturer with each shipment of raw inks and related coatings used.


(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility using solvent-borne ink systems shall use the results of verification analyses by Method 24A to determine compliance when discrepancies with ink manufacturers' formulation data occur.


(c) The owner or operator of any affected facility using waterborne ink systems shall determine the VOC and water content of raw inks and related coatings used at the affected facility by:


(1) Determination of the VOC and water content from the formulation data supplied by the ink manufacturer with each shipment of purchased raw inks and related coatings used; or


(2) Analysis of samples of each shipment of purchased raw inks and related coatings using a test method approved by the Administrator in accordance with ยง 60.8(b).


(d) The owner or operator of any affected facility shall determine the density of raw inks, related coatings, and VOC solvents by:


(1) Making a total of three determinations for each liquid sample at specified temperatures using the procedure outlined in ASTM D1475-60, 80, or 90, which is incorporated by reference. It is available from the American Society of Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on November 8, 1982. This material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval and a notice of any change in these materials will be published in the _Federal Register._ The temperature and density is recorded as the arithmetic average of the three determinations; or


(2) Using literature values, at specified temperatures, acceptable to the Administrator.


(e) If compliance is determined according to ยง 60.433 (e), (f), or (g), the existing as well as affected facilities are subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.



---

[N] [47 FR 50649, Nov. 8, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 61761, Oct. 17, 2000; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004] 




