# ยง 3406.24   Grant awards.

(a) *General.* Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the authorized departmental officer shall make project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced targeted need areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and2 CFR part 200 and part 400. 


(b) *Organizational management information.* Specific management information relating to a proposing institution shall be submitted on a one-time basis prior to the award of a project grant identified under this part if such information has not been provided previously under this or another program for which the sponsoring agency is responsible. Copies of forms used to fulfill this requirement will be sent to the proposing institution by the sponsoring agency as part of the pre-award process. 


(c) *Notice of grant award.* The grant award document shall include at a minimum the following: 


(1) Legal name and address of performing organization. 


(2) Title of project. 


(3) Name(s) and address(es) of principal investigator(s)/project director(s). 


(4) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department. 


(5) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring reapplication for funds. 


(6) Total amount of Federal financial assistance approved during the project period. 


(7) Legal authority(ies) under which the grant is awarded. 


(8) Approved budget plan for categorizing allocable project funds to accomplish the stated purpose of the grant award. 


(9) Other information or provisions deemed necessary by the Department to carry out its granting activities or to accomplish the purpose of this particular project grant. 


(d) *Obligation of the Federal Government.* Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any project grant shall legally commit or obligate NIFA or the United States to provide further support of a project or any portion thereof. 



---

[N] [62 FR 39331, July 22, 1997, as amended at 79 FR 75999, Dec. 19, 2014]




