# ยง 1409.102   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to MFP. The definitions in 7 CFR part 718 and parts 1400 and 1421 of this chapter apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*Application* means the MFP application form.


*Commodity* means an agricultural commodity produced in the United States intended to be marketed for commercial purposes that has been designated as eligible for payments under MFP.


*County payment rate* means the per acre value determined by: Historical acres and yields of non-specialty crops planted in that county and the amount of damage calculated due to trade actions of foreign governments resulting in the loss of exports represented as a per unit (for example, bushel or pound).


*Crop* means the non-specialty crops and specialty crops.


*Crop year* means:


(1) For insurable crops, the crop year as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy; and


(2) For NAP covered crops, the crop year as provided in part 1437 of this chapter.


*MFP* means the Market Facilitation Program funded by CCC and administered by the Farm Service Agency (FSA).


*NOFA* means a notice of funds availability published by CCC in the _Federal Register_ that specifies terms and conditions of MFP that are applicable to a specific commodity.


*Non-specialty crop* means any of the following crops: Alfalfa hay, barley, canola, corn, crambe, dried beans, dry peas, extra long staple cotton, flaxseed, lentils, long grain and medium grain rice, millet, mustard seed, oats, peanuts, rapeseed, rye, safflower, sesame seed, small and large chickpeas, sorghum, soybeans, sunflower seed, temperate japonica rice, triticale, upland cotton, and wheat. If warranted, additional non-specialty crops may be included in MFP in which case the availability of assistance will be specified in a NOFA published in the _Federal Register_.


*Producer* means a livestock producer, dairy producer, or a producer of a crop as defined in 7 CFR 718.2.


*Specialty crops* means any of the following crops: Almonds, cranberries, cultivated ginseng, fresh grapes, fresh sweet cherries, hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, pecans, pistachios, and walnuts. If warranted, additional specialty crops may be included in MFP in which case the availability of assistance will be specified in a NOFA published in the _Federal Register_.




