# § 501.703   Overview of civil penalty process and construction of rules.

(a) The administrative process for enforcing TWEA sanctions programs proceeds as follows: 


(1) The Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will notify a suspected violator (hereinafter “respondent”) of an alleged violation by issuing a “Prepenalty Notice.” The Prepenalty Notice shall describe the alleged violation(s) and include a proposed civil penalty amount. 


(2) The respondent will have 60 days from the date the Prepenalty Notice is served to make a written presentation either defending against the alleged violation or admitting the violation. A respondent who admits a violation may offer information as to why a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed. 


(3) Absent a settlement agreement or a finding that no violation occurred, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will issue a “Penalty Notice.” The respondent will have 30 days from the date of service to either pay the penalty or request a hearing. 


(4) If the respondent requests a hearing, the Director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control will have two options: 


(i) The Director may issue an “Order Instituting Proceedings” and refer the matter to an Administrative Law Judge for a hearing and decision; or 


(ii) The Director may determine to discontinue the penalty action based on information presented by the respondent. 


(5) Absent review by a Secretary's designee, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge will become the final decision of the Department without further proceedings. 


(6) If review is taken by a Secretary's designee, the Secretary's designee reaches the final decision of the Department. 


(7) A respondent may seek judicial review of the final decision of the Department. 


(b) *Construction of rules.* The rules contained in this subpart shall be construed and administered to promote the just, speedy, and inexpensive determination of every action. To the extent there is a conflict between the rules contained in this subpart and a procedural requirement contained in any statute, the requirement in the statute shall control. 




