# § 145.140   Canned seedless grapes.

(a) *Ingredients.* Canned seedless grapes is the food prepared from one of the fresh or previously canned optional grape ingredients specified in paragraph (b) of this section which may be packed in one of the optional packing media specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Such food may also contain one, or any combination of two or more, of the following safe and suitable optional ingredients:


(1) Natural and artificial flavors.


(2) Spice.


(3) Vinegar, lemon juice, or organic acids.


(b) *Varietal types and styles.* The optional grape ingredients referred to in paragraph (a) of this section are prepared from stemmed grapes of the light or dark seedless varieties or from unstemmed clusters of such grapes. For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the names of such optional grape ingredients are “light seedless grapes” or “dark seedless grapes”, as the case may be, preceded by the words “unstemmed clusters” where applicable.


(c) *Packing media.* (1) The optional packing media referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, as defined in § 145.3 are:


(i) Water.


(ii) Fruit juice(s) and water.


(iii) Fruit juice(s).


(2) When a sweetener is added as a part of any such liquid packing medium, the density range of the resulting packing medium expressed as percent by weight of sucrose (degrees Brix) as determined by the procedure prescribed in § 145.3(m) shall be designated by the appropriate name for the respective density ranges, namely:


(i) When the density of the solution is less than 14 percent, the medium shall be designated as “slightly sweetened water”; or “extra light sirup”; “slightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “slightly sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(ii) When the density of the solution is 14 percent or more but less than 18 percent, the medium shall be designated as “light sirup”; “lightly sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “lightly sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(iii) When the density of the solution is 18 percent or more but less than 22 percent, the medium shall be designated as “heavy sirup”; “heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(iv) When the density of the solution is 22 percent or more but not more than 35 percent, the medium shall be designated as “extra heavy sirup”; “extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s) and water”; or “extra heavily sweetened fruit juice(s)”, as the case may be.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* (1) The name of the food is “seedless grapes.” The name of the food shall also include a declaration of any flavoring that characterizes the product as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter and a declaration of any spice or seasoning that characterizes the product; for example, “Spice added”, or in lieu of the word “Spice”, the common name of the spice, or “Seasoned with lemon juice”. When two or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section are used, such words may be combined as for example, “Seasoned with cider vinegar, cloves, and cinnamon oil”.


(2) The color type and style of the grape ingredient as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and the name of the packing medium specified in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, preceded by “In” or “Packed in” or the words “solid pack”, where applicable, shall be included as part of the name or in close proximity to the name of the food. When the packing medium is prepared with a sweetener(s) which imparts a taste, flavor or other characteristic to the finished food in addition to sweetness, the name of the packing medium shall be accompanied by the name of such sweetener(s), as for example in the case of a mixture of brown sugar and honey, an appropriate statement would be “______ sirup of brown sugar and honey” the blank to be filled in with the word “light”, “heavy”, or “extra heavy” as the case may be. When the liquid portion of the packing media provided for in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section consists of fruit juice(s), such juice(s) shall be designated in the packing medium as:


(i) In the case of a single fruit juice, the name of the juice shall be used in lieu of the word “fruit”;


(ii) In the case of a combination of two or more fruit juices, the names of the juices in the order of predominance by weight shall either be used in lieu of the word “fruit” in the name of the packing medium, or be declared on the label as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and


(iii) In the case of a single fruit juice or a combination of two or more fruit juices any of which are made from concentrate(s), the words “from concentrate(s)” shall follow the word “juice(s)” in the name of the packing medium and in the name(s) of such juice(s) when declared as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(3) Whenever the names of the fruit juices used do not appear in the name of the packing medium as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, such names and the words “from concentrate”, as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, shall appear in an ingredient statement pursuant to the requirements of § 101.3(d) of this chapter.


(4) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14414, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 58 FR 2880, Jan. 6, 1993]




