# ยง 622.105   Allowable aquaculture systems and species.

(a) *Allowable aquaculture systems.* The RA will evaluate each proposed aquaculture system on a case-by-case basis and approve or deny use of the proposed system for offshore marine aquaculture in the Gulf EEZ. Proposed aquaculture systems may consist of cages, net pens, enclosures or other structures and gear which are used to culture marine species. The RA will evaluate the structural integrity of a proposed aquaculture system based, in part, on the required documentation (*e.g.,* engineering analyses, computer and physical oceanographic model results) submitted by the applicant to assess the ability of the aquaculture system(s) (including moorings) to withstand physical stresses associated with major storm events, *e.g.* hurricanes, storm surge. The RA also will evaluate the proposed aquaculture system and its operations based on the potential to pose significant risks to essential fish habitat, endangered or threatened species, marine mammals, wild fish stocks, public health, or safety. The RA may deny use of a proposed aquaculture system or specify conditions for using an aquaculture system based on a determination of such significant risks. The RA's evaluation will be based on information provided by the applicant as well as consultations with appropriate NMFS and NOAA offices and programs. If the RA denies use of a proposed aquaculture system or specifies conditions for its use, the RA will deny the Gulf Aquaculture Permit and provide this determination as required by ยง 622.101(d)(2)(ii).


(b) *Allowable aquaculture species.* Only the following federally managed species that are native to the Gulf and are not genetically engineered or transgenic, may be cultured in an aquaculture facility in the Gulf EEZ:


(1) Species of coastal migratory pelagic fish, as defined in ยง 622.2.


(2) Species of Gulf reef fish, as listed in appendix A to this part.


(3) Red drum, *Sciaenops ocellatus.*

(4) Spiny lobster, *Panulirus argus.*

