# ยง 20.182   Bulk shipments.

(a) *Use.* Dealers may ship specially denatured spirits in bulk conveyances. The dealer shall seal the bulk conveyances at the time of filling with railroad or other appropriate serially numbered seals dissimilar in marking from cap seals used by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. Specially denatured alcohol or specially denatured rum from only one consignor may be placed in any one compartment of a bulk conveyance. Not less than the entire contents of any one compartment may be delivered to any one consignee at any one premises.


(b) *Construction of bulk conveyances.* Bulk conveyances shall be constructed to conform to the following requirements:


(1) All openings (including valves) shall be constructed so that they may be sealed to prevent unauthorized access to the contents of the conveyance. Outlets, valves or other openings to or from tank cars may be constructed in such a manner that they may be closed and securely fastened on the inside.


(2) If the conveyance has two or more compartments, the outlets of each shall be so equipped that delivery of any compartment will not afford access to the contents of any other compartment.


(3) Each compartment shall be arranged so that it can be completely drained.


(4) Each tank car or tank truck shall be permanently and legibly marked with its number, capacity in gallons or liters, and the name or symbol of its owner. If the tank car or truck consists of two or more compartments, each compartment shall be identified and the capacity of each shall be marked thereon.


(5) Permanent facilities must be provided on tank trucks to permit ready examination of manholes or other openings.


(6) Calibrated charts, prepared or certified by recognized authorities or engineers, showing the capacity of each compartment in gallons or liters for each inch of depth, must accompany each tank truck, tank ship, or tank barge.




