# § 52.2356   Interstate pollutant transport provisions; What are the FIP requirements for decreases in emissions of nitrogen oxides?

(a)(1) The owner and operator of each source and each unit located in the State of Utah and Indian country within the borders of the State and for which requirements are set forth under the CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 3 Trading Program in subpart GGGGG of part 97 of this chapter must comply with such requirements with regard to emissions occurring in 2023 and each subsequent year. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units in the State and areas of Indian country within the borders of the State subject to the State's SIP authority will be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Utah's State Implementation Plan (SIP) as correcting the SIP's deficiency that is the basis for the CSAPR Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) under § 52.38(b)(1) and (b)(2)(iii) for those sources and units, except to the extent the Administrator's approval is partial or conditional. The obligation to comply with such requirements with regard to sources and units located in areas of Indian country within the borders of the State not subject to the State's SIP authority will not be eliminated by the promulgation of an approval by the Administrator of a revision to Utah's SIP.


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if, at the time of the approval of Utah's SIP revision described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Administrator has already started recording any allocations of CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 3 allowances under subpart GGGGG of part 97 of this chapter to units in the State and areas of Indian country within the borders of the State subject to the State's SIP authority for a control period in any year, the provisions of subpart GGGGG of part 97 of this chapter authorizing the Administrator to complete the allocation and recordation of CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 3 allowances to such units for each such control period shall continue to apply, unless provided otherwise by such approval of the State's SIP revision.




(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the effectiveness of paragraph (a)(1) of this section is stayed with regard to emissions occurring in 2023 and thereafter.




(b)(1) The owner and operator of each source located in the State of Utah and Indian country within the borders of the State and for which requirements are set forth in § 52.40 and § 52.41, § 52.42, § 52.43, § 52.44, § 52.45, or § 52.46 must comply with such requirements with regard to emissions occurring in 2026 and each subsequent year.




(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the effectiveness of paragraph (b)(1) of this section is stayed.





---

[N] [88 FR 36894, June 5, 2023, as amended at 88 FR 67107, Sept. 29, 2023]






