# § 403.804   General rules for solicitation, application and Medicare endorsement period.

(a) *Application.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, an applicant must submit an application to CMS by the deadline announced in the solicitation to be eligible for Medicare endorsement of its prescription drug discount card program. The applicant must certify that based on best knowledge, information, and belief, the reported information is accurate, complete, truthful, and supportable.


(2) A new Medicare managed care organization may simultaneously apply to offer a new Part C plan or plans and an exclusive card program after the deadline announced in the solicitation. New Medicare managed care organizations seeking endorsement of their prescription drug discount card programs must submit an application to CMS at the time that they submit their Part C applications. New Medicare managed care organizations will be eligible for endorsement provided CMS approves their Part C application, the new Medicare managed care organizations demonstrate to CMS that they meet the criteria under paragraph (b) of this section, and the new Medicare managed care organizations demonstrate that they will meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(b) *Eligibility to receive endorsement.* Except as specified in §§ 403.814, 403.816 and 403.817, an applicant will be eligible for endorsement if its application demonstrates to CMS's satisfaction that the applicant meets the requirements of § 403.806(a) and § 403.806(b)(1) and that it would operate its endorsed program in a manner consistent with the requirements of § 403.806(b)(2) and (b)(3) through § 403.806(m). An applicant that submits a complete application that meets all of the requirements of this subpart will be eligible to enter into a contract with CMS to operate a Medicare-endorsed prescription drug discount card program. Following the receipt of its Medicare endorsement, an endorsed sponsor must comply with the requirements of § 403.806(b)(2) and (b)(3) through § 403.806(m) through the end of the transition period.


(c) *Ability to subcontract with other organizations and entities.* (1) An applicant for endorsement may demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this subpart by combining with subcontractors.


(2) Any subcontracts must be in final form satisfactory to CMS, signed by all applicable parties, and filed with CMS before an endorsed sponsor will be permitted to engage in any enrollment or information and outreach.


(3) Once endorsed, an endorsed sponsor must ensure that its subcontractors comply with all applicable requirements of this subpart.


(d) *Period of endorsement.* An applicant eligible to receive endorsement will be required to sign a contract with CMS agreeing to operate its approved Medicare-endorsed prescription drug discount card program(s) until the end of the transition period.


(e)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, we expect an endorsed sponsor to be ready by June 8, 2004, to initiate enrollment and fully operate its endorsed program in compliance with the requirements of § 403.806(b)(2) and (b)(3) through § 403.806(m).


(2) A new Medicare managed care organization must be ready to initiate enrollment and fully operate its exclusive card program in compliance with the requirements of §§ 403.806(b)(2) and (b)(3) through § 403.806(m) upon approval of its Part C application and application for Medicare endorsement of its prescription drug discount card program.




