# ยง 2551.12   Definitions.

*Act.* The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Public Law 93-113, Oct. 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 396, 42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*

*Adequate staffing level.* The number of project staff or full-time equivalent needed by a sponsor to manage the AmeriCorps Seniors project operations considering such factors as: Number of budgeted Volunteer Service Years (VSYs), number of volunteer stations, and the size of the service area.


*Adult with special needs.* Any individual over 21 years of age who has one or more physical, emotional, or mental health limitations and is in need of assistance to achieve and maintain their highest level of independent living.


*AmeriCorps.* The Corporation for National and Community Service, established pursuant to section 191 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 12651, which operates as AmeriCorps.


*AmeriCorps Seniors.* The collective name for the Senior Companion Program (SCP), the Foster Grandparent Program (FGP), the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP), and Demonstration Programs, all of which are established under Parts A, B, C, and E, Title II of the Act


*Annual income.* The applicant or enrollee's total income for the preceding 12 months, including the applicant or enrollee's spouse's income, if the spouse lives in the same residence, as calculated in ยง 2551.44.


*Chief Executive Officer.* The Chief Executive Officer of AmeriCorps appointed under the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended, (NCSA), 42 U.S.C. 12501 *et seq.*

*Cost reimbursements.* Reimbursements budgeted as Volunteer Expenses and provided to volunteers, including stipends to cover incidental costs, transportation, meals, recognition, supplemental accident, personal liability and excess automobile liability insurance and other expenses as negotiated in the Memorandum of Understanding.


*In-home.* The non-institutional assignment of a Senior Companion in a private residence.


*Letter of Agreement.* A written agreement between a volunteer station or sponsor and the person(s) served or the person legally responsible for that person. It authorizes the assignment of an SCP volunteer in the home of a client, defines SCP volunteer activities, and specifies supervision arrangements.


*Memorandum of Understanding.* A written statement prepared and signed by the Senior Companion project sponsor and the volunteer station that identifies project requirements, working relationships, and mutual responsibilities.


*Non-AmeriCorps support (excess).* The amount of non-AmeriCorps cash and in-kind contributions generated by a sponsor in excess of the required percentage.


*Non-AmeriCorps support (match).* The percentage share of non-AmeriCorps cash and in-kind contributions required to be raised by the sponsor in support of the grant.


*Performance measures.* Indicators that help determine the impact of an SCP project on the community and clients served, including the volunteers.


*Project.* The locally planned SCP activity or set of activities in a service area as approved by AmeriCorps and implemented by the sponsor.


*Proprietary Health Care Agency.* Private, for-profit health care organization that serves one or more vulnerable populations.


*Service area.* The geographically defined area(s) in which Senior Companions are enrolled and placed on assignments.


*Service schedule.* A written delineation of the days and times a Senior Companion serves each week.


*Sponsor.* A public agency, including Indian Tribes as defined in section 421(5) of the Act, and private, non-profit organizations, both secular and faith-based, in the United States that have authority to accept and the capability to administer a Senior Companion project.


*Stipend.* A payment to Senior Companions to enable them to serve without cost to themselves. The amount of the stipend is set by AmeriCorps in accordance with Federal law.


*United States and territories.* Each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam and American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.


*Volunteer assignment plan.* A written description of a Senior Companion's assignment with a client. The plan identifies specific outcomes for the client and the activities of the Senior Companion.


*Volunteer station.* A public agency; a private, non-profit organization, secular or faith-based; or a proprietary health care organization. A volunteer station must accept responsibility for the assignment and supervision of Senior Companions in health, education, social service, or related settings such as multi-purpose centers, home health care agencies, or similar establishments. Each volunteer station must be licensed or otherwise certified, when required, by the appropriate state or local government. Private homes are not volunteer stations.





---

[N] [64 FR 14115, Mar. 24, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 60094, Oct. 7, 2004; 83 FR 64644, Dec. 17, 2018; 89 FR 70541, Aug. 30, 2024]




