# § 376.22   Exemption for private carrier leasing and leasing between authorized carriers.

Regardless of the leasing regulations set forth in this part, an authorized carrier may lease equipment to or from another authorized carrier, or a private carrier may lease equipment to an authorized carrier under the following conditions:


(a) The identification of equipment requirements in § 376.11(c) must be complied with;


(b) The lessor must own the equipment or hold it under a lease;


(c) There must be a written agreement between the authorized carriers or between the private carrier and authorized carrier, as the case may be, concerning the equipment as follows:


(1) It must be signed by the parties or their authorized representatives.


(2) It must provide that control and responsibility for the operation of the equipment shall be that of the lessee from the time possession is taken by the lessee and the receipt required under § 376.11(b) is given to the lessor until: 


(i) Possession of the equipment is returned to the lessor and the receipt required under § 376.11(b) is received by the authorized carrier; or


(ii) In the event that the agreement is between authorized carriers, possession of the equipment is returned to the lessor or given to another authorized carrier in an interchange of equipment.


(3) A copy of the agreement must be carried in the equipment while it is in the possession of the lessee.


(4) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use, by authorized carriers, private carriers, and all other entities conducting lease operations pursuant to this section, of a master lease if a copy of that master lease is carried in the equipment while it is in the possession of the lessee, and if the master lease complies with the provisions of this section and receipts are exchanged in accordance with § 376.11(b), and if records of the equipment are prepared and maintained in accordance with § 376.11(d).


(d) Authorized and private carriers under common ownership and control may lease equipment to each other under this section without complying with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section pertaining to identification of equipment, and the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(4) of this section pertaining to equipment receipts. The leasing of equipment between such carriers will be subject to all other requirements of this section.



---

[N] [49 FR 9570, Mar. 14, 1984, as amended at 49 FR 47269, Dec. 3, 1984; 49 FR 47851, Dec. 7, 1984; 62 FR 15424, Apr. 1, 1997; 63 FR 40838, July 31, 1998]




