# ยง 98.503   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process CO_2_ emissions from each calcium carbide process unit not subject to paragraph (c) of this section using the procedures in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.


(a) Calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.


(b) Calculate and report under this subpart the annual process CO_2_ emissions from the calcium carbide process unit using the carbon mass balance procedure specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) For each calcium carbide process unit, determine the annual mass of carbon in each carbon-containing input and output material for the calcium carbide process unit and estimate annual process CO_2_ emissions from the calcium carbide process unit using equation 1 to this paragraph (b)(1). Carbon-containing input materials include carbon electrodes and carbonaceous reducing agents. If you document that a specific input or output material contributes less than 1 percent of the total carbon into or out of the process, you do not have to include the material in your calculation using equation 1.


(2) Determine the combined annual process CO_2_ emissions from the calcium carbide process units at your facility using equation 2 to this paragraph (b)(2).


(c) If all GHG emissions from a calcium carbide process unit are vented through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports CO_2_ emissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part, then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section must not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator must report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.






