# § 760.1802   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in §§ 718.2 and 1400.3 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section. In the event of conflict, the definitions in this section apply.


*Affected production* means the producer's ownership share of harvested production of an eligible crop, adjusted to standard moisture as established by the U.S. Grains Standards Act, a State regulatory agency, or industry standard, that had both:


(1) A quality loss due to a qualifying disaster event; and


(2) At least a 5 percent quality loss due to all eligible disaster events.


*Average market price* means the average market price determined according to § 1437.12 of this title.


*Coverage level* means the percentage determined by multiplying the elected yield percentage under a crop insurance policy or NAP coverage by the elected price percentage.


*Crop insurance* means an insurance policy reinsured by FCIC under the provisions of the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. It does not include private plans of insurance.


*Crop insurance indemnity* means, for the purpose of this subpart, the payment to a participant for crop losses covered under crop insurance administered by RMA in accordance with the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524).


*Crop year* means:


(1) For insurable crops, the crop year as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy; and


(2) For NAP-eligible crops, the crop year as defined in § 1437.3 of this title.


*Eligible crop* means a crop for which coverage was available either from FCIC under part 400 of this title, or through NAP under § 1437.4 of this title.


*Eligible disaster event* means a disaster event that is an eligible cause of loss specified in § 1437.10 of this title, excluding insect infestation.


*FCIC* means the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government Corporation of USDA, administered by RMA.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency, an agency of USDA.


*Grading factor* means a factor that describes the physical condition or a feature that is evaluated to determine the quality of the production, such as broken kernels and low-test weight.


*Good farming practices* means the cultural practices generally recognized as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions and used for the crop to make normal progress toward maturity, as determined by FSA. These practices are:


(1) For conventional farming practices, those generally recognized by agricultural experts for the area, which could include one or more counties; or


(2) For organic farming practices, those generally recognized by the organic agricultural experts for the area or contained in the organic system plan that is in accordance with the National Organic Program specified in part 205 of this title.


*Harvested* means:


(1) For insurable crops, harvested as defined according to the applicable crop insurance policy;


(2) For NAP-eligible single harvest crops, that a crop has been removed from the field, either by hand or mechanically;


(3) For NAP-eligible crops with potential multiple harvests in 1 year or harvested over multiple years, that the producer has, by hand or mechanically, removed at least 1 mature crop from the field during the crop year; and


(4) For mechanically harvested NAP-eligible crops, that the crop has been removed from the field and placed in a truck or other conveyance, except hay is considered harvested when in the bale, whether removed from the field or not.


*Insurable crop* means an agricultural crop (excluding livestock) for which the producer on a farm is eligible to obtain a policy or plan of insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524).


*Multiple market crop* means a crop that is delivered to a single market but can have fresh and processed prices based on grading. For example, a producer may intend to sell all production of an apple crop as fresh production; however, based on grading of the crop at the market, the producer is compensated for some production at the fresh price and for some production at the processing price.


*Multiple planting* means the planting for harvest of the same crop in more than one planting period in a crop year on different acreage.


*NAP* means the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program under section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7333) and part 1437 of this title.


*NAP-eligible crop* means an agricultural crop for which the producer on a farm is eligible to obtain NAP coverage.


*NAP service fee* means the amount specified in § 1437.7 of this title that the producer must pay to obtain NAP coverage.


*Nutrient factor* means a factor determined by a test that measures the nutrient value of a crop to be fed to livestock. Examples include, but are not limited to, relative feed value and total digestible nutrients.


*Production* means quantity of the crop produced, which is expressed in a specific unit of measure including, but not limited to, bushels or pounds.


*QLA Program* means the Quality Loss Adjustment Program.


*Qualifying disaster event* means a hurricane, flood, tornado, typhoon, volcanic activity, snowstorm, wildfire, excessive moisture, qualifying drought, or a related condition that occurred in the 2018 or 2019 calendar year.


*Qualifying drought* means an area within the county was rated by the U.S. Drought Monitor as having a D3 (extreme drought) or higher level of drought intensity during the applicable calendar year.


*Quality loss* means:


(1) For forage crops, a reduction in an applicable nutrient factor for the crop; and


(2) For crops other than forage, a reduction in the total dollar value of the crop due to reduction in the physical condition of the crop indicated by an applicable grading factor.


*Related condition* means damaging weather or an adverse natural occurrence that occurred as a direct result of a specified qualifying disaster event, such as excessive rain, high winds, flooding, mudslides, and heavy smoke, as determined by the Deputy Administrator. The term does not include insect infestation.


*Reliable production record* means evidence provided by the participant that is used to substantiate the amount of production reported when verifiable records are not available, including copies of receipts, ledgers of income, income statements of deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, and records to verify production costs, contemporaneous measurements, truck scale tickets, and contemporaneous diaries that are determined acceptable by the FSA county committee. To determine whether the records are acceptable, the FSA county committee will consider whether they are consistent with the records of other producers of the crop in that area.


*RMA* means the Risk Management Agency, an agency of USDA.


*Salvage value* means the dollar amount or equivalent for the quantity of the commodity that cannot be marketed or sold in any recognized market for the crop.


*Secondary use* means the harvesting of a crop for a use other than the intended use.


*Unit of measure* means:


(1) For insurable crops, the FCIC-established unit of measure; and


(2) For NAP-eligible crops, the established unit of measure used for the NAP price and yield.


*USDA* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*U.S. Drought Monitor* is a system for classifying drought severity according to a range of abnormally dry to exceptional drought. It is a collaborative effort between Federal and academic partners, produced on a weekly basis, to synthesize multiple indices, outlooks, and drought impacts on a map and in narrative form. This synthesis of indices is reported by the National Drought Mitigation Center at *http://droughtmonitor.unl.edu.*

*Value loss crop* has the meaning specified in subpart D of part 1437 of this title.


*Verifiable documentation* means evidence that can be verified by FSA through an independent source.


*Verifiable percentage of loss* is the percentage of loss determined by comparing the applicable nutrient factors for a producer's affected production of a forage crop with the average of such nutrient factors from the 3 preceding crop years, as documented on FSA-899, Historical Nutritional Value Weighted Average Worksheet.


*WHIP+* means the Wildfires and Hurricanes Indemnity Program Plus under subpart O of this part.






