# § 60.113c   Testing, monitoring, and inspection procedures.

For each storage vessel subject to the provision in § 60.112c(a), you must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if you installed an internal floating roof, paragraph (b) of this section if you installed an external floating roof, or paragraph (c) of this section if you route emissions through a closed vent system to a control device, fuel gas system, or process. You must also meet the applicable requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.


(a) *Requirements for an internal floating roof.* After installing the control equipment for an internal floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(b), you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), and deck fittings prior to filling the storage vessel with VOL. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section constitutes inspection failure. You must repair the items before filling the storage vessel.


(i) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric;


(ii) Defects in the internal floating roof; or


(iii) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13).


(2) Inspect the internal floating roof as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section at least once every 12 calendar months after initial fill, and inspect the internal floating roof as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed, or at a frequency no greater than every 120 calendar months, whichever occurs first.


(i) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is service), and deck fittings, through openings in the fixed roof and conduct LEL monitoring. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (F) of this section constitutes inspection failure. Identification of holes or tears in the rim seal is required only for the seal that is visible from the top of the storage vessel. You must repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.


(A) Stored liquid on the floating roof;


(B) The internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the VOL inside the storage vessel;


(C) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric;


(D) Defects in the internal floating roof;


(E) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13); or


(F) The concentration measured according to paragraph (a)(3) of this section exceeds 25 percent of the LEL.


(ii) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any). Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section constitutes an inspection failure. You must repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) exist before refilling the storage vessel with VOL. The inspection may be performed entirely from the top side of the floating roof, as long as there is visual access to all deck fittings and rim seal system specified in § 60.112c(b). You must repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.


(A) Defects in the internal floating roof;


(B) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric; or


(C) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13).


(3) Compliance with the LEL limit for internal floating roof storage vessels at § 60.112c(b)(16) must be determined based on the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. If tubing is necessary to obtain the measurements, the tubing must be non-crimping and made of Teflon or other inert material.


(i) You must conduct LEL monitoring as part of the annual inspection specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and at other times upon request by the Administrator. If the measurement cannot be performed during the visual inspection due to wind speeds exceeding those specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, the measurement must be performed within 30 days of the visual inspection. If there is an exceedance of the LEL limit, you must re-monitor in accordance with § 60.112c(b)(16) within 30 days after repair or placing the storage vessel back in service.


(ii) The calibration of the LEL meter must be checked per manufacturer specifications immediately before and after the measurements as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. If tubing will be used for the measurements, the tubing must be attached during calibration so that the calibration gas travels through the entire measurement system.


(A) Conduct the span check using a calibration gas recommended by the LEL meter manufacturer. The calibration gas must contain a single hydrocarbon at a concentration of the vapor corresponding to 50 percent of the LEL (*e.g.,* 2.50 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The vendor must provide a Certificate of Analysis for the gas, and the certified concentration must be within ±2 percent (*e.g.,* 2.45 percent-2.55 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The LEL span response must be between 49 percent and 51 percent. If the span check prior to the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced. If the span check after the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced, and the measurements must be repeated.


(B) Check the instrumental offset response using a certified compressed gas cylinder of zero air or an ambient environment that is free of organic compounds. The pre-measurement instrumental offset response must be 0 percent LEL. If the LEL meter does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced.


(iii) Conduct the monitoring measurements as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Measurements of the vapors within the internal floating roof storage vessel must be collected no more than 3 feet above the internal floating roof.


(B) Measurements must be taken for a minimum of 20 minutes, logging the measurements at least once every 15 seconds, or until one 5-minute average as determined according to paragraph (a)(3)(v)(B) of this section exceeds the limit specified in § 60.112c(b)(16).


(C) Measurements shall be taken when the wind speed at the top of the storage vessel is 5 mph or less to the extent practicable, but in no case shall measurements be taken when the sustained wind speed at top of storage vessel is greater than the annual average wind speed at the site or 15 mph, whichever is less.


(D) Measurements should be conducted when the internal floating roof is floating with limited product movement (limited filling or emptying of the storage vessel).


(iv) To determine the actual concentration of the vapor within the storage vessel, the percent of the LEL “as the calibration gas” must be corrected according to one of the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section. Alternatively, if the LEL meter used has correction factors that can be selected from the meter's program, you may enable this feature to automatically apply one of the correction factors in paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) Multiply the measurement by the published vapor correction factor for the specific LEL meter, stored VOL, and calibration gas used; or


(B) If there is no published correction factor for the specific LEL meter used and the vapors of the stored VOL, multiply the measurement by the published correction factor for butane as a surrogate for determining the LEL of the vapors of the stored VOL. The correction factor must correspond to the calibration gas used.


(v) Use the calculation procedures in paragraphs (a)(3)(v)(A) through (C) of this section to determine compliance with the LEL limit.


(A) For each minute while measurements are being taken, determine the 1-minute average reading as the arithmetic average of the corrected individual measurements (taken at least once every 15 seconds) during the minute.


(B) Starting with the end of the fifth minute of data, calculate a 5-minute rolling average as the arithmetic average of the previous five 1-minute readings determined under paragraph (a)(3)(v)(A) of this section. Determine a new 5-minute average reading for every subsequent 1-minute reading.


(C) Each 5-minute rolling average must meet the LEL limit specified in § 60.112c(b)(16).


(4) Notify the Administrator as specified in § 60.116c(b) at least 30 days prior to the inspection of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.


(5) You must equip each affected storage vessel that has an internal floating roof with an alarm system that provides a visual or audible signal that alerts the operator when the internal floating roof is approaching the landed height and that provides a separate visual or audible signal to alert the operator when the roof has landed. The roof is considered landed when the floating roof first rests on supports or when the vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent begins to open, whichever is first (for example, when using a leg-actuated vent that triggers the vent prior to resting on the roof supports).


(b) *Requirements for an external floating roof.* After installing the control equipment for an external floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(c), you must inspect the external floating roof according to the specifications in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths, between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel and between the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the frequency provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must visually inspect all roof fittings to ensure that covers are closed and gasketed with no visible gaps and that there are no tears in sleeves, wipers, or similar controls used for a given fitting during each measurement of gaps as required under this paragraph (b)(1).


(i) Measurements of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) must be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the storage vessel or within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 60 calendar months thereafter.


(ii) Measurements of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal must be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 12 calendar months thereafter.


(iii) If any source ceases to store VOL for a period of 12 calendar months or more, subsequent introduction of VOL into the storage vessel must be considered an initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) Determine gap widths and areas in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:


(i) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof supports.


(ii) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the storage vessel in each place where a 0.125-inch (0.32-centimeter (cm)) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.


(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the storage vessel wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.


(3) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually and divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the storage vessel and compare each ratio to the respective standards in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, make necessary repairs or empty the storage vessel within 45 days of identification in any inspection failure as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For primary seals, any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.


(A) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the mechanical shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal must not exceed 10 square inches (in
2) per foot of storage vessel diameter (212 square centimeters (cm
2) per meter of storage vessel diameter).


(B) The maximum width of any portion of any gap must not exceed 1.5 inches (3.81 cm).


(C) If a mechanical shoe seal is used, one end of the mechanical shoe is to extend into the stored liquid, and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 2 feet (61 cm) above the stored liquid surface.


(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.


(ii) For secondary seals, any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.


(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the storage vessel wall except for allowed gaps as provided in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section.


(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal must not exceed 1 in
2 per foot (21.2 cm
2 per meter) of storage vessel diameter.


(C) The maximum width of any portion of any gap must not exceed 0.5 inches (1.27 cm).


(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.


(iii) For roof fittings (*e.g.,* vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and rim vents, gauge hatch/sample wells, access hatches, guidepoles, ladders, and emergency roof drains), any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.


(A) Each opening in an external floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents provides a projection below the liquid surface.


(B) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and rim vents are equipped with a gasket and are closed with no visible gaps when the roof is floating.


(C) The gauge hatch/sample well, access hatch, and gauge float must have a gasketed cover and closed with no visible gaps.


(D) There are to be no tears or visible defects of sleeves, wipers, or fabric covers used to control emissions from a roof fitting.


(5) If a failure that is detected as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such extension request must include a demonstration of unavailability of alternate storage capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.


(6) Notify the Administrator, as specified in § 60.116c(b)(2), 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.


(7) Visually inspect the external floating roof, primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.


(i) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, covers have visible openings or missing or torn gaskets, or there are tears or other visible defects in flexible covers, sleeves, wipers, or other fitting controls, you must repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph (b)(7)(i) exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with VOL.


(ii) For each inspection required by paragraph (b)(7) of this section, notify the Administrator as specified in § 60.116c(b)(1) at least 30 days prior to the inspection of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel.


(8) You must equip each affected storage vessel that has an external floating roof with an alarm system that provides a visual or audible signal that alerts the operator when the external floating roof is approaching the landed height and that provides a separate visual or audible signal to alert the operator when the roof has landed. The roof is considered landed when the floating roof first rests on supports or when the vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent begins to open, whichever is first (for example, when using a leg-actuated vent that triggers the vent prior to resting on the roof supports).


(c) *Requirements for closed vent systems routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process.* For each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d), you must conduct performance testing and monitoring of the control device as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, conduct monitoring and inspections of the closed vent system as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, repair leaks as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and develop a monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(1) For each control device used to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For each enclosed combustion device or flare, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.


(ii) For each control device other than a flare, except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, you must conduct a performance test as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section not later than 180 days after becoming subject to § 60.112c(d). You must conduct subsequent performance tests within 60 calendar months after each previous performance test. Submit the results of all performance tests following the procedures in § 60.116c(e).


(A) Each performance test must demonstrate that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control device performance level specified in § 60.112c(d)(3). Performance tests must be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. You must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(B) You must conduct a minimum of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 1 hour long.


(C) The following methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in § 60.8(b), must be used as reference methods to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement.


(*1*) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate, for selection of the sampling sites. Sampling sites must be located at the inlet of the first control device and at the outlet of the final control device to determine compliance with a control device percent reduction requirement.


(*2*) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate to determine the gas volumetric flow rate.


(*3*) Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part. Use propane as the calibration gas. You must use Method 4 of appendix A-3 to this part to convert the Method 25A of appendix A-7 results to a dry basis.


(D) You must use the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(D)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section to calculate percent reduction efficiency.


(*1*) You must compute the mass rate of TOC using the following equations:


(*2*) You must calculate the percent reduction in TOC as follows:


(E) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*5*) of this section, you must establish the applicable operating parameter limit as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section by calculating the value(s) as the arithmetic average of operating parameter measurements recorded during the three test runs conducted for the most recent performance test (the average of the test run averages). You may operate outside of the established operating parameter limit(s) during subsequent performance tests in order to establish new operating limits. You must include the updated operating limits with the performance test results submitted to the Administrator pursuant to § 60.116c(e). Upon establishment of a new operating limit, you must thereafter operate under the new operating limit. You must demonstrate compliance with your operating parameter according to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*4*) of this section.


(*1*) If you use an enclosed combustion device, a boiler, or a process heater other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section to control emissions, you must set a minimum firebox temperature limit during the performance test. You must continuously monitor the firebox temperature with a temperature monitoring device installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs and equipped with a continuous recorder that records a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 degrees Celsius, whichever value is greater.


(*2*) If you use a catalytic incinerator other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section to control emissions, you must set a minimum temperature limit on the temperature at the inlet of the catalyst bed and a minimum temperature limit on the temperature difference between the catalyst bed outlet and inlet. You must continuously monitor the temperatures with a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that records a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations and have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 degrees Celsius, whichever value is greater. You must install one temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet, and you must install a second temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet. You must install the temperature sensor at a location representative of the firebox temperature.


(*3*) If you use a control device other than a flare or other than a device listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*1*), (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*2*), (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*5*), or (c)(1)(iii) to control emissions, you must submit the operating parameters you plan to monitor in the performance test notice you provide to the Administrator pursuant to § 60.8(d).


(*4*) Using the continuous monitoring system (CMS) data, you must calculate the hourly average of each operating parameter. You must demonstrate compliance by maintaining the operating parameter at or above the minimum operating parameter limit on a 3-hour rolling average basis. For each hour, calculate the hourly value of the operating parameter from your CMS. Average the three most recent hours of data to determine the 3-hour average. Determine the 3-hour rolling average by recalculating the 3-hour average each hour. You must not include periods of data collected during monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments, or checks to maintain precision and accuracy in the operating parameter averages.


(*5*) For enclosed combustion devices for which you elect to comply with the flare requirements in § 60.112c(d)(5), you must comply with the monitoring provisions in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section instead of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(iii) No performance test is required for the control devices identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) or greater.


(B) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel.


(C) A boiler, process heater, or incinerator burning hazardous waste, which is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE; part 264; part 265; or part 266.


(iv) For each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and a flare to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d) or enclosed combustion device electing to comply with the requirements in § 60.112c(d)(5), you must conduct visible emission observations as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section and install, operate, and maintain CMS for flares following the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.671 and as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(B) and (C) of this section.


(A) If visible emissions are observed for more than 1 continuous minute during normal duties, visible emissions observation using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part must be conducted for 2 hours or until 5-minutes of visible emissions are observed.


(B) Substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”


(C) As an alternative to determining the flare tip velocity rate for each 15-minute block to determine compliance with the flare tip velocity operating limit as specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k)(2), you may elect to conduct a one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(C)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section. If the flare or storage vessel control configurations change (*e.g.,* flare tip modified or additional storage vessel or other sources are added for which vapors are directed to the flare), you must repeat this one-time assessment based on the new configuration.


(*1*) Determine the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip, in units of square feet, as specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k)(1).


(*2*) Determine the maximum flow rate, in units of cubic feet per second, based on the maximum cumulative loading rate for a 15-minute block period considering maximum filling rates for all storage vessel affected facilities controlled by the flare and, if applicable, considering the maximum release pressure of any other vapors directed to the flare.


(*3*) Calculate the maximum flare tip velocity as the maximum flow rate from paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(*2*) of this section divided by the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip from paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(*1*) of this section.


(*4*) Demonstrate that the maximum flare tip velocity as calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(*3*) of this section is less than 60 feet per second.


(2) For each closed vent system, you must conduct the instrument monitoring in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must conduct the initial instrument monitoring within 180 days of an affected facility being connected to the closed vent system. Subsequent instrument inspections must be conducted within 365 days of the previous inspection. Visual, audible, and olfactory inspections must be conducted quarterly.


(i) Conduct instrument monitoring using the procedures in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part. The detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of appendix A-7, except that the instrument response factor criteria in section 8.1.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 must be for the average composition of the fluid and not for each individual organic compound in the stream. For streams that contain nitrogen, air, water, or other inerts that are not organic VOC, the representative stream response factor must be determined on an inert-free basis. The instrument reading that defines a leak is 500 ppmv (as methane). The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7. The calibration gases in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section must be used. The drift assessment specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section must be performed at the end of each monitoring day.


(A) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air).


(B) A mixture of methane in air at a concentration of approximately 500 ppmv.


(C) At the end of each monitoring day, check the instrument using the same calibration gas that was used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. If multiple scales are used, record the instrument reading for each scale used. Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage. If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then re-monitor all equipment monitored since the last calibration with instrument readings between the leak definition and the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift) divided by 100. If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift) divided by 100 monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.


(ii) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the conditions of paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section are met.


(A) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe-to-inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and


(B) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-inspect times. Inspection is not required more than once annually.


(iii) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.


(A) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface; and


(B) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 60 calendar months.


(3) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv or emissions detected by visible, audible, and olfactory methods, shall be repaired as soon as practical following the requirements outlined in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, a first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 days after the leak is detected. Repairs shall be completed no later than 15 days after the leak is detected or at the beginning of the next introduction of vapors to the system, whichever is later.


(ii) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible or unsafe or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed as soon as practical.


(4) You must develop a monitoring plan that covers each CMS used to demonstrate continuous compliance for your control device as outlined in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each CMS in accordance with the procedures in your monitoring plan.


(i) For each control device other than those specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, your monitoring plan must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (G) of this section.


(A) The parameter to be monitored and the operating limit for the parameter.


(B) Sampling interface (*e.g.,* thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements.


(C) Description of the monitoring system specifications, including the detector signal analyzer, data acquisition, and calculations.


(D) Equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures, including the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(D)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) You must conduct the CMS equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures specified in the monitoring plan at least once every 12 calendar months.


(*2*) You must also conduct calibration checks following any period of more than 24 hours throughout which the sensor exceeded the manufacturer's specified maximum range unless you install a new sensor.


(*3*) At least quarterly, you must inspect all components for integrity and all electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion, unless you use a redundant CMS.


(*4*) Daily checks for indications that the system is responding.


(E) Description of how periods of data collected during CMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments, or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), and high-level adjustments will be excluded from operating parameter averages.


(F) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures.


(G) Ongoing recordkeeping procedures.


(ii) For each flare or enclosed combustion device for with you elect to comply with the flare provisions in § 60.112c(d)(5), your monitoring plan must contain the information required by 40 CFR 63.671(b).


(d) *Requirements for determining maximum true vapor pressure.* For each affected storage vessel, you must determine the maximum true vapor pressure of the stored VOL according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. For storage vessels operated above or below ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the highest expected calendar-month average of the storage temperature. For storage vessels operated at ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the maximum local monthly average ambient temperature as reported by the National Weather Service.


(1) Prior to the initial filling of the storage vessel or to the refilling of the storage vessel with a new VOL, the highest maximum true vapor pressure for the range of anticipated liquids to be stored, including mixtures for which you can define the range of concentrations for constituents in the mixture or with a known maximum Reid vapor pressure, must be determined using any one of the methods described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) As obtained from standard reference texts.


(ii) ASTM D6377-20 (incorporated by reference; see § 60.17). Perform the method using a vapor-to-liquid ratio of 4:1, which is expressed in the method as VPCR.


(iii) ASTM D6378-22 (incorporated by reference; see § 60.17). Perform the method using a vapor-to-liquid ratio of 4:1.


(iv) As measured by an appropriate method as approved by the Administrator.


(2) For each affected storage vessel storing a mixture of indeterminate composition or a mixture of unknown variable composition, the initial determination of the vapor pressure required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be a physical test using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. Additional physical tests using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section are required at least once every 6 calendar months thereafter as long as the measured vapor pressure remains below the applicable thresholds in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2). If the vapor pressure measured under this paragraph (d)(2) exceeds the threshold defined in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2) you must meet the requirements in § 60.112c and the corresponding requirements in §§ 60.113c through 60.116c. If the storage vessel does not have controls meeting the requirements in § 60.112c, the storage vessel must be emptied and taken out of service until controls meeting the requirements in § 60.112c can be installed. Upon compliance with the provisions in § 60.112c, no additional vapor pressure monitoring is required.






