# § 435.952   Use of information and requests of additional information from individuals.

(a) The agency must promptly evaluate information received or obtained by it in accordance with regulations under § 435.940 through § 435.960 of this subpart to determine whether such information may affect the eligibility of an individual or the benefits to which he or she is entitled.


(b) If information provided by or on behalf of an individual (on the application or renewal form or otherwise) is reasonably compatible with information obtained by the agency, including information obtained in accordance with § 435.948, § 435.949, § or 435.956, the agency must determine or renew eligibility based on such information.


(c) An individual must not be required to provide additional information or documentation unless information needed by the agency in accordance with § 435.948, § 435.949, § or 435.956 cannot be obtained electronically or information obtained electronically is not reasonably compatible, as provided in the verification plan described in § 435.945(j) with information provided by or on behalf of the individual.


(1) Income information obtained through an electronic data match shall be considered reasonably compatible with income information provided by or on behalf of an individual, and resource information obtained through an electronic data match shall be considered reasonably compatible with resource information provided by or on behalf of an individual, if both the information obtained electronically and the information provided by or on behalf of the individual are either above or at or below the applicable standard or other relevant threshold.


(2) If information provided by or on behalf of an individual is not reasonably compatible with information obtained through an electronic data match, the agency must seek additional information from the individual, including—


(i) A statement which reasonably explains the discrepancy; or


(ii) Other information (which may include documentation), provided that documentation from the individual is permitted only to the extent electronic data are not available and establishing a data match would not be effective, considering such factors as the administrative costs associated with establishing and using the data match compared with the administrative costs associated with relying on paper documentation, and the impact on program integrity in terms of the potential for ineligible individuals to be approved as well as for eligible individuals to be denied coverage;


(iii) The agency must provide the individual a reasonable period to furnish any additional information required under paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) *Exception for special circumstances.* The agency must establish an exception to permit, on a case-by-case basis, self-attestation of individuals for all eligibility criteria when documentation does not exist at the time of application or renewal, or is not reasonably available, such as in the case of individuals who are homeless or have experienced domestic violence or a natural disaster. This exception does not apply if documentation is specifically required under title XI or XIX, such as requirements for verifying citizenship and immigration status, as implemented at § 435.956(a).


(d) The agency may not deny or terminate eligibility or reduce benefits for any individual on the basis of information received in accordance with regulations under § 435.940 through § 435.960 of this subpart unless the agency has sought additional information from the individual in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, and provided proper notice and hearing rights to the individual in accordance with this subpart and subpart E of part 431. 


(e) When determining eligibility for individuals applying for the Medicare Savings Programs specified in sections 1902(a)(10)(E)(i), (iii) and (iv) and 1905(p) of the Act, the agency must accept attestation (either self-attestation by the individual or attestation by an adult who is in the applicant's household, as defined in § 435.603(f), or family, as defined in section 36B(d)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, an authorized representative, or, if the individual is a minor or incapacitated, someone acting responsibly for the individual) of the following income and asset information without requiring further information (including documentation) from the individual:


(1) *Income and interest income.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, the agency must accept an applicant's attestation of the value of any dividend and interest income earned on resources owned by the applicant or the applicant's spouse.


(ii) If the agency has information that is not reasonably compatible with an applicant's attestation, the agency must seek additional information from the individual in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) The agency may verify interest and dividend income after the agency has determined that an applicant is eligible for the Medicare Savings Programs, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If the agency requests documentation in accordance with this paragraph, the agency must provide the individual with at least 90 days from the date of the request to provide any necessary information requested and must allow the individual to submit such documentation through any of the modalities described in § 435.907(a).


(2) *Non-liquid resources.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the agency must accept an applicant's attestation of the value of any non-liquid resources owned.


(ii) If the agency has information that is not reasonably compatible with an applicant's attestation, the agency must seek additional information from the individual in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) The agency may verify the value of non-liquid resources after the agency has determined that an applicant is eligible for the Medicare Savings Programs, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If the agency requests documentation in accordance with this paragraph, the agency must provide the individual with at least 90 days from the date of the request to provide any necessary information requested and must allow the individual to submit such documentation through any of the modalities described in § 435.907(a).


(3) *Burial funds.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, the agency must accept an applicant's attestation that up to $1,500 of their resources, and up to $1,500 of their spouse's resources, are set aside in a separate account and are not countable as resources when determining eligibility for the Medicare Savings Programs.


(ii) If the agency has information that is not reasonably compatible with an applicant's attestation, the agency must seek additional information from the individual in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) The agency may verify resources in burial funds after the agency has determined that an applicant is eligible for the Medicare Savings Programs, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. If the agency requests documentation in accordance with this paragraph, the agency must provide the individual with at least 90 days from the date of the request to provide any necessary information requested and must allow the individual to submit such documentation through any of the modalities described in § 435.907(a).


(4) *Life insurance policies.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, the agency must accept an applicant's attestation of the face value of life insurance.


(A) If an individual attests to a face value of life insurance policy that is above $1,500, the State may accept an attestation of the cash surrender value of the life insurance policy for the purpose of determining resource eligibility for the Medicare Savings Programs.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) If the agency has information about either the face value or the cash surrender value that is not reasonably compatible with an applicant's attestation, the agency must seek additional information from the individual in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, which may include a reasonable explanation of the discrepancy or documentation.


(iii) The agency may verify the face value of a life insurance policy after the agency has determined that an applicant is eligible for a Medicare Savings Program, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(iv)(A) When an individual must provide documentation of the cash surrender value of a life insurance policy, the agency must assist the individual with obtaining this information and documentation by requesting that the individual provide the name of the insurance company and policy number and authorize the agency to obtain such documentation from the issuer of the policy on the individual's behalf. The agency may also request, but may not require, additional information from the applicant to assist the agency in obtaining the needed documentation, such as the name of an agent.


(B) If the individual does not provide the information and authorization in paragraph (e)(4)(iv)(A) of this section, the agency may require that the individual provide documentation of the cash surrender value.


(C) The agency must allow the individual to submit documentation through any of the modalities described in § 435.907(a) and provide the individual with at least 15 days to provide information or documentation described in this paragraph if such information or documentation is requested pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section and at least 90 days if required pursuant to paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 17212, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 86459, Nov. 30, 2016; 88 FR 65270, Sept. 21, 2023; 89 FR 22871, Apr. 1, 2024]




