# § 234.1   Definitions.

As used in this part.


*Authorized person.* An employee or agent of the Pentagon Force Protection Agency, or any other Department of Defense employee or agent who has delegated authority to enforce the provisions of this part.


*Operator.* A person who operates, drives, controls, otherwise has charge of, or is in actual physical control of a mechanical mode of transportation or any other mechanical equipment.


*Pentagon Reservation.* Area of land and improvements thereon, located in Arlington, Virginia, on which the Pentagon Office Building, Federal Building Number 2, the Pentagon heating and sewage treatment plants, and other related facilities are located. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 674, the Pentagon Reservation also includes the area of land known as Raven Rock Mountain Complex (“RRMC”), located in Adams County, Pennsylvania, and Site “C,” which is located in Washington County, Maryland, and other related facilities. The Pentagon Reservation shall include all roadways, walkways, waterways, and all areas designated for the parking of vehicles.


*Permit.* A written authorization to engage in uses or activities that are otherwise prohibited, restricted, or regulated.


*Possession.* Exercising direct physical control or dominion, with or without ownership, over property.


*State law.* The applicable and nonconflicting laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances, and codes of the state(s) and other political subdivision(s) within whose exterior boundaries the Pentagon Reservation or a portion thereof is located.


*Traffic.* Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any road, path, street, or other thoroughfare for the purposes of travel.


*Vehicle.* Any vehicle that is self-propelled or designed for self-propulsion, any motorized vehicle, and any vehicle drawn by or designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle, including any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or can be transported or drawn upon a highway, hallway, or pathway; to include any device moved by human or animal power, whether required to be licensed in any state or otherwise.


*Weapons.* Any loaded or unloaded pistol, rifle, shotgun, or other device which is designed to, or may be readily converted to, expel a projectile by the ignition of a propellant, by compressed gas, or by spring power; any bow and arrow, crossbow, blowgun, spear gun, hand-thrown spear, slingshot, irritant gas device, explosive device, or any other implement designed to discharge missiles; any other weapon, device, instrument, material, or substance, animate or inanimate that is used for or is readily capable of, causing death or serious bodily injury, including any weapon the possession of which is prohibited under the laws of the state in which the Pentagon Reservation or portion thereof is located; except that such term does not include a pocket knife with a blade of less than 2
1/2 inches in length.




