# ยง 1201.81   Requests for subpoenas.

(a) *Request.* Parties who have complied with 1201.73(c), as applicable, and wish to obtain subpoenas that would require the attendance and testimony of witnesses, or subpoenas that would require the production of documents or other evidence under 5 U.S.C. 1204(b)(2)(A), should file their motions for those subpoenas with the judge. The Board has authority under 5 U.S.C. 1204(b)(2)(A) to issue a subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of any individual regardless of location and for the production of documentary or other evidence from any place in the United States, any territory or possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the District of Columbia. Subpoenas are not ordinarily required to obtain the attendance of Federal employees as witnesses because Federal agencies and their employees must comply with 5 CFR 5.4 and ยง 1201.33.




(b) *Form.* Parties requesting subpoenas must file their requests, in writing, with the judge. Each request must identify specifically the testimony, documents, or other evidence desired.


(c) *Relevance.* The request must be supported by a showing that the evidence sought is directly material to the issues involved in the appeal.


(d) *Rulings.* Any judge who does not have the authority to issue subpoenas will refer the request to an official with authority to rule on the request, with a recommendation for decision. The official to whom the request is referred will rule on the request promptly. Judges who have the authority to rule on these requests themselves will do so directly.



---

[N] [54 FR 53504, Dec. 29, 1989, as amended at 70 FR 30608, May 27, 2005; 77 FR 62367, Oct. 12, 2012; 89 FR 72962, Sept. 9, 2024]




