# § 164.023-13   Production tests and inspections.

(a) *Manufacturer's test equipment and facilities.* The manufacturer shall provide the following test equipment and facilities for use in production tests and inspections:


(1) A Constant Rate of Traverse tensile testing machine, capable of initial clamp separation of ten inches and a rate of separation of 30 cm (12 in.) per minute.


(2) Fletcher, Callaway, U.S. Rubber clamps, or equivalent cam-actuated clamps to prevent slippage and twist of the samples.


(3) An analytical balance or grain-yarn scale, accurate to within 0.25 percent of the measured value.


(b) *Lot size.* Lot size must not exceed 460,000 meters (500,000 yds.) or 45 kg (100 lb.) of any color.


(c) *Sample selection.* Samples must be selected at random by the manufacturer (or inspector, as applicable) after the entire lot of thread has been completed.


(d) *Second sampling.* A second sampling, where required, must consist of five times the original sample size.


(e) *Manufacturer's production tests.* The component manufacturer shall perform the following tests on the samples indicated (each sample to include at least 5 specimens unless otherwise specified in the referenced test procedure) on each lot of thread:


(1) *Breaking strength.* One sample must be tested in accordance with § 164.023-7(a)(1) or § 164.023-7(b)(1), as applicable.


(2) *Length/weight ratio.* One sample must be tested in accordance with § 164.023-11(b)(1).


(f) *Recognized laboratory production tests.* Manufacturers shall ensure that the following tests and inspections are performed on non-standard components by a recognized laboratory:


(1) *Composition.* At least annually, one sample of each accepted thread must be tested in accordance with § 164.023-11(b)(2).


(2) *Breaking strength.* At least quarterly, one sample in each of the lightest and darkest colors accepted must be tested in accordance with § 164.023-7(a)(1) or § 164.023-7(b)(1), as applicable. This test may be performed by a recognized laboratory, or witnessed by a recognized laboratory inspector at the manufacturer's plant, at the laboratory's discretion.


(3) *Elongation.* At least annually, one sample of each accepted thread in each of the lightest and darkest colors accepted must be tested in accordance with § 164.023-11(b)(3). This test may be performed by a recognized laboratory, or witnessed by a recognized laboratory inspector at the manufacturer's plant, at the laboratory's discretion.


(g) *Accept/reject criteria.* Unless the alternate procedures as permitted by § 164.019-013(m) are followed, the results of required production testing on a lot must meet the following criteria for the lot to be shipped as Coast Guard-accepted thread:


(1) Breaking strength test results must be within 10 percent below and 20 percent above the acceptance testing values but not less than the performance minimums.


(2) Length/weight values must be within 5 percent of the acceptance testing values but not less than the performance minimums.


(3) Elongation values must be within 20 percent of the acceptance testing values but not less than the performance minimums.


(4) Composition testing must indicate that the sample tested is of identical composition to the sample tested for acceptance or in accordance with the performance specification.




