# § 413.239   Transition period.

(a) *Duration of transition period and composition of the blended transition payment.* ESRD facilities not electing under paragraph (b) of this section to be paid based on the payment amount determined under § 413.230 of this part, will be paid a per-treatment payment amount for renal dialysis services (as defined in § 413.171 of this part) and home dialysis, provided during the transition as follows—


(1) For services provided on and after January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011, a blended rate equal to the sum of:


(i) 75 percent of the payment amount determined under the ESRD payment methodology in effect prior to January 1, 2011 in accordance with section 1881(b)(12) of the Act and items and services separately paid under Part B; and


(ii) 25 percent of the payment amount determined in accordance with section 1881(b)(14) of the Act;


(2) For services provided on and after January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, a blended rate equal to the sum of:


(i) 50 percent of the payment amount determined under the ESRD payment methodology in effect prior to January 1, 2011 in accordance with section 1881(b)(12) of the Act and items and services separately paid under Part B; and


(ii) 50 percent of the payment rate determined in accordance with section 1881(b)(14) of the Act;


(3) For services provided on and after January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, a blended rate equal to the sum of:


(i) 25 percent of the payment amount determined under the ESRD payment methodology in effect prior to January 1, 2011 in accordance with section 1881(b) (12) of the Act and items and services separately paid under Part B; and


(ii) 75 percent of the payment amount determined in accordance with section 1881(b)(14) of the Act;


(4) For services provided on and after January 1, 2014, 100 percent of the payment amount determined in accordance with section 1881(b)(14) of the Act.


(b) *One-time election.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, ESRD facilities may make a one-time election to be paid for renal dialysis services provided during the transition based on 100 percent of the payment amount determined under § 413.215 of this part, rather than based on the payment amount determined under paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the election must be received by each ESRD facility's Medicare administrative contractor (MAC) by November 1, 2010. Requests received by the MAC after November 1, 2010, will not be accepted regardless of postmarks, or delivered dates. MACs will establish the manner in which an ESRD facility will indicate their intention to be excluded from the transition and paid entirely based on payment under the ESRD PPS. Once the election is made, it may not be rescinded.


(2) If the ESRD facility fails to submit an election, or the ESRD facility's election is not received by their MAC by November 1, 2010, payments to the ESRD facility for items and services provided during the transition will be based on the payment amounts determined under paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) ESRD facilities that become certified for Medicare participation and begin to provide renal dialysis services, as defined in § 413.171 of this part, between November 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010, must notify their designated MAC of their election choice at the time of enrollment.


(c) *Treatment of new ESRD facilities.* For renal dialysis services as defined in § 413.171, furnished during the transition period, new ESRD facilities as defined in § 413.171, are paid based on the per-treatment payment amount determined under § 413.215 of this part.


(d) *Transition budget-neutrality adjustment.* During the transition, CMS adjusts all payments, including payments under this section, under the ESRD prospective payment system so that the estimated total amount of payment equals the estimated total amount of payments that would otherwise occur without such a transition.



---

[N] [75 FR 49201, Aug. 12, 2010]




