# § 40.181   General.

Every manufacturer of tobacco products must keep records of his operations and transactions which shall reflect, for each day, the information specified in §§ 40.182 and 40.183. For this purpose *day* shall mean calendar day, except that the appropriate TTB officer may, upon application of the manufacturer by letter, in duplicate, authorize as such day for a factory a 24-hour cycle of operation other than the calendar day. A day once so established as other than the calendar day may be changed only by another application approved by the appropriate TTB officer. No specific form is required. The manufacturer may use commercial records from which the required information may be readily ascertained for this purpose. The manufacturer shall keep the auxiliary and supplemental records from which such records are compiled and shall keep supporting records, as specified in §§ 40.184 and 40.186, of tobacco products removed subject to tax and transferred in bond. Except as provided in §§ 40.184 and 40.186, the entries in the commercial records so maintained or kept shall be made not later than the close of the next business day following the day on which the transaction(s) occurred. As used in this section the term *business day* shall mean any day other than Saturday, Sunday, a legal holiday in the District of Columbia, or a statewide legal holiday in the State wherein the factory to which the records relate is located.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-424, 64 FR 71931, Dec. 22, 1999]




