# § 802.222   Filing notice of appeal, pleadings, and other correspondence.

This section prescribes rules and procedures by which parties and representatives to proceedings before the Board file pleadings (including notices of appeal, petitions for review and briefs, response briefs, additional briefs, and motions), exhibits, and other documents including routine correspondence.


(a) *Requirements for all pleadings.* All pleadings filed with the Board must—


(1) Include a caption and title.


(2) Include a certificate of service containing—


(i) The date and manner of service;


(ii) The names of persons served; and


(iii) Their mail or electronic mail addresses or the addresses of the places of delivery, as appropriate for the manner of service.


(3) Include a signature of the party (or their attorney or lay representative) and date of signature. Pleadings filed by an attorney, lay representative or self-represented party via the Board's case management system will be deemed to be signed by that person.


(4) Conform to standard letter dimensions (8.5 x 11 inches).


(b) *Redacted filings and exhibits.* Any person who files a pleading, exhibit, or other document that contains an individual's social security number, taxpayer-identification number, or birth date; the name of an individual known to be a minor; or a financial-account number, must redact all such information, except the last four digits of the social security number and taxpayer-identification number; the year of the individual's birth; the minor's initials; and the last four digits of the financial-account number.


(c) *Nonelectronic filings.* All nonelectronic pleadings filed with the Board must be secured at the top. For each pleading filed with the Board, the original and two legible copies must be submitted. Nonelectronic filings must be sent to the U.S. Department of Labor, Benefits Review Board, ATTN: Office of the Clerk of the Appellate Boards (OCAB), 200 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20210-0001, or otherwise presented to the Clerk.


(d) *Electronic filings.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, beginning on March 11, 2024, attorneys and lay representatives must be registered with the Board's electronic case management system and file all pleadings, exhibits, and other documents with the Board through this system (e-file). All e-filed documents must be in Portable Document Format (PDF). The Board prefers that pleadings be filed in text-searchable PDF format. Paper copies are not required unless requested by the Board.


(2) Attorneys and lay representatives may request an exemption (pursuant to § 802.219) for good cause shown. Such a request must include a detailed explanation why e-filing or acceptance of e-service should not be required.


(3) Self-represented parties may file pleadings, exhibits, and other documents in electronic or nonelectronic form in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.


(4) A document filed electronically is a written paper for purposes of this Part.


(5) A person who is adversely affected by a technical failure in connection with filing or receipt of an electronic document may seek appropriate relief from the Board under § 802.219. If a technical malfunction or other issue prevents access to the Board's case management system for a protracted period, the Board by special order may provide appropriate relief pending restoration of electronic access.


(e) *Special rules for notices of appeal.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a notice of appeal is considered to have been filed only as of the date it is received by the office of the Clerk of the Board.


(2) A notice of appeal submitted to any other agency or subdivision of the Department of Labor or of the U.S. Government or any state government, and subsequently received by the office of the Clerk of the Board, will be considered filed with the Clerk of the Board as of the date it was received by the other governmental unit if the Board finds in its discretion that it is in the interest of justice to do so.


(3) If the notice of appeal is sent by mail or commercial carrier and the fixing of the date of delivery as the date of filing would result in a loss or impairment of appeal rights, it will be considered to have been filed as of the date of mailing or the date of delivery to the commercial carrier.


(i) For notices sent by mail, the date appearing on the U.S. Postal Service postmark (when available and legible) will be prima facie evidence of the date of mailing. If there is no such postmark or it is not legible, other evidence such as, but not limited to, certified mail receipts, certificates of service, and affidavits, may be used to establish the mailing date.


(ii) For notices sent by commercial carrier, the date of delivery to the carrier may be demonstrated by the carrier's receipt or tracking information.


(4) If the notice of appeal is electronically filed through the Board's case management system, it is considered received by the office of the Clerk of the Board as of the date and time recorded by the system under § 802.221(c).



---

[N] [89 FR 8536, Feb. 8, 2024]








