# § 1240.4   Transition.

(a) *Compliance dates.* An Enterprise will not be subject to any requirement under this part until the compliance date for the requirement under this section.


(b) *Reporting requirements.* (1) For any reporting requirement under § 1240.1(f) or § 1240.41, the compliance date will be January 1, 2022.


(2) For any reporting requirement under §§ 1240.61 through 1240.63, the compliance date will be no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.


(3) For any reporting requirement under § 1240.205, the compliance date will be no later than 10 business days after an Enterprise files its Annual Report on SEC Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.


(c) *Advanced approaches requirements.* Any requirement under subpart E or F (other than § 1240.162(d) or any requirement to calculate the standardized measure for spread risk under § 1240.204) will have a compliance date of the later of January 1, 2028 and any later compliance date for that requirement provided in a transition order applicable to the Enterprise.


(d) *Capital requirements and buffers*—(1) *Requirements.* The compliance date of any requirement under § 1240.10 will be the later of:


(i) The date of the termination of the conservatorship of the Enterprise (or, if later, the effective date of this part); and


(ii) Any later compliance date for § 1240.10 provided in a transition order applicable to the Enterprise.


(2) *Buffers.* The compliance date of any requirement under § 1240.11 will be the date of the termination of the conservatorship of the Enterprise (or, if later, the effective date of this part).


(3) *Capital restoration plan.* If a transition order of an Enterprise provides a compliance date for § 1240.10, the Director may determine that, for the period between the compliance date for § 1240.11 under paragraph (d)(2) of this section and any later compliance date for § 1240.10 provided in the transition order—


(i) The prescribed capital conservation buffer amount of the Enterprise will be the amount equal to the sum of—


(A) The common equity tier 1 capital that would otherwise be required under § 1240.10(d); and


(B) The prescribed capital conservation buffer amount that would otherwise apply under § 1240.11(a)(5); and


(ii) The prescribed leverage buffer amount of the Enterprise will be equal to 4.0 percent of the adjusted total assets of the Enterprise.


(4) *Prudential standard.* If the Director makes a determination under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, § 1240.11 will be a prudential standard adopted under section 1313B of the Safety and Soundness Act (12 U.S.C. 4513b) until the compliance date of § 1240.10.



---

[N] [85 FR 82198, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 33429, June 2, 2022; 88 FR 83476, Nov. 30, 2023]




