# § 35.715   Multifamily properties receiving more than $5,000 per unit.

The requirements of this section shall apply to a multifamily residential property that is receiving an average of more than $5,000 per assisted dwelling unit annually in project-based assistance.


(a) *Risk assessment.* Each owner shall complete a risk assessment in accordance with § 35.1320(b). A risk assessment is considered complete when the owner receives the risk assessment report. Until the owner conducts a risk assessment as required by this section, the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section shall apply. After the risk assessment has been conducted the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall apply. Each risk assessment shall be completed no later than the following schedule or a schedule otherwise determined by HUD:


(1) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before September 17, 2001, in a multifamily residential property constructed before 1960.


(2) Risk assessments shall be completed on or before September 15, 2003, in a multifamily residential property constructed after 1959 and before 1978.


(b) *Interim controls.* Each owner shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 to treat the lead-based paint hazards identified in the risk assessment. Interim controls are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340. Interim controls shall be completed no later than the following schedule:


(1) In units occupied by families with children of less than 6 years of age and in common areas servicing those units, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the completion of the risk assessment. In units in which a child of less than 6 years of age moves in after the completion of the risk assessment, interim controls shall be completed no later than 90 days after the move-in.


(2) In all other dwelling units, common areas, and the remaining portions of the residential property, interim controls shall be completed no later than 12 months after completion of the risk assessment for those units.


(c) *Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.* Effective immediately after completion of the risk assessment required in § 35.715(a), the owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation into the regular building operations in accordance with § 35.1355, unless all lead-based paint has been removed. If the reevaluation identifies new lead-based paint hazards, the owner shall conduct interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330.


(d) *Transitional requirements*—(1) *Effective date.* The requirements of this paragraph shall apply effective September 15, 2000, and continuing until the applicable date specified in § 35.715(a) (1) or (2) or until the owner conducts a risk assessment, whichever is first.


(2) Definitions and other general requirements that apply to this paragraph are found in subpart B of this part.


(3) *Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance.* The owner shall incorporate ongoing lead-based paint maintenance activities into regular building operations, in accordance with § 35.1355(a), except that clearance is not required.


(e) *Child with an elevated blood lead level.* If a child of less than 6 years of age living in a dwelling unit covered by this paragraph has an elevated blood lead level, the owner shall comply with the requirements of § 35.730.



---

[N] [64 FR 50210, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 4167, Jan. 13, 2017]




