# § 19.231   Order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.

(a) *Service of notice.* When the OCC issues and serves a directive on an insured depository institution pursuant to subpart B of 12 CFR part 6 requiring the insured depository institution to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under section 38(f)(2)(F)(ii) of the FDIA, the OCC will also serve a copy of the directive, or the relevant portions of the directive where appropriate, upon the person to be dismissed.


(b) *Response to directive*—(1) *Request for reinstatement.* A director or senior executive officer who has been served with a directive under paragraph (a) of this section (Respondent) may file a written request for reinstatement. The Respondent must file this request for reinstatement within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the OCC directive, unless further time is allowed by the OCC at the request of the Respondent. Failure by the Respondent to file a written request for reinstatement with the OCC within the specified time period will constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and will constitute consent to the dismissal.


(2) *Contents of request; informal hearing.* The request for reinstatement must include reasons why the Respondent should be reinstated and may include a request for an informal hearing before the OCC or its designee under this section. If the Respondent desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the Respondent must include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. The request to present oral testimony or witnesses must specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing will constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing, and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses will constitute a waiver of any right or opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses.


(3) *Effective date.* Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the dismissal will remain in effect while a request for reinstatement is pending.


(c) *Order for informal hearing.* Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring an insured depository institution to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the OCC will issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the OCC allows further time at the request of the Respondent. The hearing will be held in Washington, DC, or at such other place as may be designated by the OCC, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the OCC to conduct the hearing.


(d) *Hearing procedures*—(1) *Role of respondent.* A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent has the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument at the hearing.


(2) *Application of Administrative Procedure Act and Uniform Rules.* Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the OCC orders that such procedures will apply.


(3) *Electronic presentation.* Based on the circumstances of each hearing, the presiding officer may direct the use of, or any party may elect to use, an electronic presentation during the hearing. If the presiding officer requires an electronic presentation during the hearing, each party will be responsible for its own presentation and related costs unless the parties agree to another manner in which to allocate presentation responsibilities and costs.


(4) *Recordings; transcript.* The informal hearing will be recorded and a transcript furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof.


(5) *Witnesses.* A Respondent may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the OCC or the presiding officer(s). Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). If so requested, and by stipulation of the parties or by order of the presiding officer, a court reporter or other person authorized to administer an oath may administer the oath remotely without being in the physical presence of the witness. The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.


(6) *Continuance.* The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.


(e) *Standard for review.* A Respondent bears the burden of demonstrating that their continued employment by or service with the insured depository institution would materially strengthen the insured depository institution's ability:


(1) To become adequately capitalized, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the insured depository institution's capital level or failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and


(2) To correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of classification of the insured depository institution based on supervisory criteria other than capital, pursuant to section 38(g) of the FDIA.


(f) *Recommendation of presiding officer.* Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) will make a recommendation to the OCC concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the insured depository institution.


(g) *Time for decision.* Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the OCC will grant or deny the request for reinstatement and notify the Respondent of the OCC's decision. If the OCC denies the request for reinstatement, the OCC will set forth in the notification the reasons for the OCC's action.




