# ยง 7.5006   Data processing.

(a) *Eligible activities.* It is part of the business of banking under 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh) for a national bank to provide data processing, and data transmission services, facilities (including equipment, technology, and personnel), data bases, advice and access to such services, facilities, data bases and advice, for itself and for others, where the data is banking, financial, or economic data, and other types of data if the derivative or resultant product is banking, financial, or economic data. For this purpose, economic data includes anything of value in banking and financial decisions. 


(b) *Other data.* A national bank also may perform the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section for itself and others with respect to additional types of data to the extent convenient or useful to provide the data processing services described in paragraph (a), including where reasonably necessary to conduct those activities on a competitive basis. The total revenue attributable to the bank's data processing activities under this section must be derived predominantly from processing the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(c) *Software for performance of authorized banking functions.* A national bank may produce, market, or sell software that performs services or functions that the bank could perform directly, as part of the business of banking.



---

[N] [61 FR 4862, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22242, Apr. 24, 2008]




