# ยง 1312.26   Control of secret and confidential material.

Classified material will be accounted for by the office having custody of the material. OMB Form 87, Classified Document Control, will be used to establish accountability controls on all Secret material received or produced within OMB offices. No accountability controls are prescribed for Confidential material, but offices desiring to control and account for such material should use the procedures applicable to Secret material. Information classified by another agency shall not be disclosed without that agency's authorization. 


(a) *Accountability Control Clerks.* Each division or office head will appoint one person as the Accountability Control Clerk (ACC). The ACC will be the focal point for the receipt, routing, accountability, dispatch, and declassification downgrading or destruction of all classified material in the possession of the office. 


(b) *OMB Form 87.* One copy of OMB Form 87 will be attached to the document, and one copy retained in the accountability control file for each active document within the area of responsibility of the ACC. Downgrading or destruction actions, or other actions removing the document from the responsibility of the ACC will be recorded on the OMB Form 87, and the form filed in an inactive file. Inactive control forms will be cut off annually, held for two additional years, then destroyed. 


(c) *Working papers and drafts.* Working papers and drafts of classified documents will be protected according to their security classification, but will not be subject to accountability control unless they are forwarded outside of OMB. 


(d) *Typewriter ribbons.* Typewriter ribbons, cassettes, and other devices used in the production of classified material will be removed from the machine after each use and protected as classified material not subject to controls. Destruction of such materials will be as prescribed in ยง 1312.29. 


(e) *Reproduction.* Classified material will be reproduced only as required unless prohibited by the originator for the conduct of business and reproduced copies are subject to the same controls as are the original documents. Top Secret material will be reproduced only with the written permission of the originating agency. 




