# ยง 1321.97   Coordination with State, Tribal, and local emergency management.

(a) *State agencies.* (1) State agencies shall establish emergency plans, as set forth in section 307(a)(28) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 3027(a)(28)). Such plans must include, at a minimum:


(i) The State agency's continuity of operations plan and an all-hazards emergency response plan based on completed risk assessments for all hazards and updated annually;


(ii) A plan to coordinate activities with area agencies on aging, service providers, local emergency response agencies, relief organizations, local governments, State agencies responsible for emergency and disaster preparedness, and any other institutions that have responsibility for disaster relief service delivery;


(iii) Processes for developing and updating long-range emergency and disaster preparedness plans; and


(iv) Other relevant information as determined by the State agency.


(2) The plan shall include information describing the involvement of the head of the State agency in the development, revision, and implementation of emergency and disaster preparedness plans, including the State Public Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan.


(3) The plan shall discuss coordination with area agencies on aging and service providers and Tribal and local emergency management.


(b) *Area agencies on aging.* (1) Area agencies on aging shall establish emergency plans. Such plans must include:


(i) The area agency's continuity of operations plan and an all-hazards emergency response plan based on completed risk assessments for all hazards and updated annually;


(ii) A description of coordination activities for both development and implementation of long-range emergency and disaster preparedness plans; and


(iii) Other information as deemed appropriate by the area agency on aging.


(2) The area agency on aging shall coordinate with Federal, local, and State emergency response agencies, service providers, relief organizations, local and State governments, and any other entities that have responsibility for disaster relief service delivery, as well as with Tribal emergency management, as appropriate.






