# § 1065.315   Pressure, temperature, and dewpoint calibration.

(a) Calibrate instruments for measuring pressure, temperature, and dewpoint upon initial installation. Follow the instrument manufacturer's instructions and use good engineering judgment to repeat the calibration, as follows:




(1) *Pressure.* We recommend temperature-compensated, digital-pneumatic, or deadweight pressure calibrators, with data-logging capabilities to minimize transcription errors. We recommend using calibration reference quantities that are NIST-traceable within ±0.5% uncertainty.




(2) *Temperature.* We recommend digital dry-block or stirred-liquid temperature calibrators, with data logging capabilities to minimize transcription errors. We recommend using calibration reference quantities for absolute temperature that are NIST-traceable within ±0.5% uncertainty. You may perform linearity verification for temperature measurement systems with thermocouples, RTDs, and thermistors by removing the sensor from the system and using a simulator in its place. Use a NIST-traceable simulator that is independently calibrated and, as appropriate, cold-junction compensated. The simulator uncertainty scaled to absolute temperature must be less than 0.5% of *T*_max._ If you use this option, you must use sensors that the supplier states are accurate to better than 0.5% of *T*_max_ compared with their standard calibration curve.




(3) *Dewpoint.* We recommend a minimum of three different temperature-equilibrated and temperature-monitored calibration salt solutions in containers that seal completely around the dewpoint sensor. We recommend using calibration reference quantities for absolute dewpoint temperature that are NIST-traceable within ±0.5% uncertainty.






(b) You may remove system components for off-site calibration. We recommend specifying calibration reference quantities that are NIST-traceable within ±0.5% uncertainty.



---

[N] [70 FR 40516, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 37305, June 30, 2008; 75 FR 23040, Apr. 30, 2010; 79 FR 23768, Apr. 28, 2014; 88 FR 4674, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29797, Apr. 22, 2024]




