# § 7.66   Name and address for domestically bottled malt beverages that were wholly fermented in the United States.

(a) *General.* Domestically bottled malt beverages that were wholly fermented in the United States and contain no imported malt beverages must be labeled in accordance with this section. (See §§ 7.67 and 7.68 for name and address requirements applicable to malt beverages that are not wholly fermented in the United States.)


(b) *Mandatory statement.* A label on the container must state the name and address of the bottler, in accordance with the rules set forth in this section.


(c) *Form of address.* The address consists of the city and State and must be consistent with the information reflected on the brewer's notice required under part 25 of this chapter. Addresses may, but are not required to, include additional information such as street names, counties, zip codes, phone numbers, and website addresses. The postal abbreviation of the State name may be used; for example, California may be abbreviated as CA.


(d) *Optional statements.* The bottler may, but is not required to, be identified by a phrase describing the function performed by that person, such as “bottled by,” “canned by,” “packed by,” or “filled by,” followed by the name and address of the bottler. If one person performs more than one function, the label may so indicate (for example, “brewed and bottled by XYZ Brewery.”) If different functions are performed by more than one person, statements on the label may not create the misleading impression that the different functions were performed by the same person. The appropriate TTB officer may require specific information about the functions performed if necessary to prevent a misleading impression on the label.


(e) *Principal place of business.* The bottler's principal place of business may be shown in lieu of the actual place where the malt beverage was bottled if the address shown is a location where a bottling operation takes place. The appropriate TTB officer may disapprove the listing of a principal place of business if its use would create a false or misleading impression as to the geographic origin of the malt beverage. See 27 CFR 25.141 and 25.142 for coding requirements applicable in these circumstances.


(f) *Multiple breweries under the same ownership.* If two or more breweries are owned or operated by the same person, the place where the malt beverage is bottled within the meaning of paragraph (a) of this section may be shown in one of the following two ways:


(1) *Listing of where bottled.* The place where the malt beverage is bottled may be shown as the only location on the label; or


(2) *Listing of all brewer's locations.* The place where the malt beverage is bottled may appear in a listing of the locations of breweries owned by that person if the place of bottling is not given less emphasis than any of the other locations. See 27 CFR 25.141 and 25.142 for coding requirements applicable in these circumstances.


(g) *Malt beverages bottled for another person.* (1) If malt beverages are bottled for another person, the label may state, in addition to (but not in lieu of) the name and address of the bottler, the name and address of such other person, immediately preceded by the words “brewed and bottled for” or “bottled for” or another similar appropriate phrase. Such statements must clearly indicate the relationship between the two persons (for example, contract brewing).


(2) If the same brand of malt beverage is brewed and bottled by two or more breweries that are not under the same ownership, the label for each brewery may set forth all the locations where bottling takes place, as long as the label uses the actual location (and not the principal place of business) and as long as the nature of the arrangement is clearly set forth.


(h) *Use of trade names.* The name of the person appearing on the label may be the trade name or the operating name, as long as it is identical to a trade or operating name appearing on the brewer's notice.




