# § 17.900   Definitions.

For purposes of §§ 17.900 through 17.905— 


*Approved health care provider* means a health care provider currently approved by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Department of Defense TRICARE Program, Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA), The Joint Commission, or currently approved for providing health care under a license or certificate issued by a governmental entity with jurisdiction. An entity or individual will be deemed to be an approved health care provider only when acting within the scope of the approval, license, or certificate. 


*Child* for purposes of spina bifida means the same as *individual* as defined at § 3.814(c)(3) or § 3.815(c)(2) of this title and for purposes of covered birth defects means the same as *individual* as defined at § 3.815(c)(2) of this title. 


*Covered birth defect* means the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(3) of this title and also includes complications or medical conditions that are associated with the covered birth defect(s) according to the scientific literature. 


*Day health care* means a therapeutic program prescribed by an approved health care provider that provides necessary medical services, rehabilitation, therapeutic activities, socialization, nutrition, and transportation services in a congregate setting. Day health care may be provided as a component of outpatient care or respite care.


*Habilitative and rehabilitative care* means such professional, counseling, and guidance services and such treatment programs (other than vocational training under 38 U.S.C. 1804 or 1814) as are necessary to develop, maintain, or restore, to the maximum extent practicable, the functioning of a disabled person. 


*Health care* means home care, hospital care, long-term care, nursing home care, outpatient care, preventive care, habilitative and rehabilitative care, case management, and respite care; and includes the training of appropriate members of a child's family or household in the care of the child; and the provision of such pharmaceuticals, supplies (including continence-related supplies such as catheters, pads, and diapers), equipment (including durable medical equipment), devices, appliances, assistive technology, direct transportation costs to and from approved health care providers (including any necessary costs for meals and lodging en route, and accompaniment by an attendant or attendants), and other materials as the Secretary determines necessary. 


*Health care provider* means any entity or individual that furnishes health care, including specialized clinics, health care plans, insurers, organizations, and institutions.


*Health-related services* means homemaker or home health aide services furnished in the individual's home or other place of residence to the extent that those services provide assistance with Activities of Daily Living and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living that have therapeutic value.


*Home care* means medical care, habilitative and rehabilitative care, preventive health services, and health-related services furnished to a child in the child's home or other place of residence.


*Home health aide services* is a component of health-related services providing personal care and related support services to an individual in the home or other place of residence. Home health aide services may include assistance with Activities of Daily Living such as: Bathing; toileting; eating; dressing; aid in ambulating or transfers; active and passive exercises; assistance with medical equipment; and routine health monitoring. Home health aide services must be provided according to the individual's written plan of care and must be prescribed by an approved health care provider.


*Homemaker services* is a component of health-related services encompassing certain activities that help to maintain a safe, healthy environment for an individual in the home or other place of residence. Such services contribute to the prevention, delay, or reduction of risk of harm or hospital, nursing home, or other institutional care. Homemaker services include assistance with personal care; home management; completion of simple household tasks; nutrition, including menu planning and meal preparation; consumer education; and hygiene education. Homemaker services may include assistance with Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, such as: Light housekeeping; laundering; meal preparation; necessary services to maintain a safe and sanitary environment in the areas of the home used by the individual; and services essential to the comfort and cleanliness of the individual and ensuring individual safety. Homemaker services must be provided according to the individual's written plan of care and must be prescribed by an approved health care provider.


*Hospital care* means care and treatment furnished to a child who has been admitted to a hospital as a patient.


*Long-term care* means home care, nursing home care, and respite care.


*Nursing home care* means care and treatment furnished to a child who has been admitted to a nursing home as a resident.


*Other place of residence* includes an assisted living facility or residential group home.


*Outpatient care* means care and treatment, including day health care and preventive health services, furnished to a child other than hospital care or nursing home care.


*Preventive care* means care and treatment furnished to prevent disability or illness, including periodic examinations, immunizations, patient health education, and such other services as the Secretary determines necessary to provide effective and economical preventive health care.


*Respite care* means care, including day health care, furnished by an approved health care provider on an intermittent basis for a limited period to an individual who resides primarily in a private residence when such care will help the individual continue residing in such private residence.


*Spina bifida* means all forms and manifestations of spina bifida except spina bifida occulta (this includes complications or medical conditions that are associated with spina bifida according to the scientific literature).


*Veteran with covered service in Korea* for purposes of spina bifida means the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(2) of this title.


*Vietnam veteran* for purposes of spina bifida means the same as defined at § 3.814(c)(1) or § 3.815(c)(1) of this title and for purposes of covered birth defects means the same as defined at § 3.815(c)(1) of this title. 



---

[N] [68 FR 1010, Jan. 8, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 4249, Jan. 25, 2011; 79 FR 54616, Sept. 12, 2014; 81 FR 19890, Apr. 6, 2016]




