# ยง 203.351   Application for insurance benefits and fiscal data.

On the date the assignment of the mortgage is filed for record, the mortgagee shall forward to the Commissioner the prescribed application for insurance benefits and fiscal data pertaining to the mortgage transaction, together with the receipts covering all disbursements, as required by the fiscal data form. In addition, the following requirements shall be met: 


(a) *Items to be included with application.* The following items shall be forwarded to the Commissioner with the application: 


(1) *Credit and security instrument.* The original credit and security instruments assigned without recourse or warranty, except that no act or omission of the mortgagee shall have impaired the validity and priority of the mortgage. 


(2) *Recorded assignment instrument.* The original of the recorded assignment of mortgage. If the original of the assignment is not available, a copy shall be furnished and the original forwarded as soon as possible. 


(3) *Hazard insurance.* All hazard insurance policies held in connection with the mortgaged property, together with a copy of the mortgagee's notification to the carrier authorizing the amendment of the loss payable clause substituting the Commissioner as the mortgagee. 


(4) *Rights and interests.* An assignment of all rights and interests arising under the mortgage, and all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others arising out of the mortgage transaction. 


(5) *Property.* All property of the mortgagor held by the mortgagee or to which it is entitled (other than the cash items which are to be retained by the mortgagee). 


(6) *Records and accounts.* All records, ledger cards, documents, books, papers and accounts relating to the mortgage transaction. 


(7) *Additional information.* Any additional information or data which the Commissioner may require. 


(8) *Title evidence.* All title evidence held by the mortgagee. It need not be extended to include the recordation of the assignment. If a mortgagee's title policy is furnished, the Commissioner shall be a named insured under such policy. 


(b) *Items to be retained by mortgagee.* The mortgagee shall retain all cash amounts held or deposited for the account of the mortgagor or to which it is entitled under the mortgage transaction that have not been applied in reduction of the principal mortgage indebtedness. 


(c) Title evidence for mortgages insured under ยง 203.43d as set forth in ยง 203.385 shall accompany the application for insurance benefits.



---

[N] [36 FR 24508, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 37 FR 7693, Apr. 10, 1972; 42 FR 57435, Nov. 2, 1977] 




