# § 177.405   General arrangement and outfitting.

(a) *Fire hazards to be minimized.* The general construction of the vessel must be such as to minimize fire hazards insofar as it is reasonable and practicable.


(b) *Combustibles insulated from heated surfaces.* Internal combustion engine exhausts, boiler and galley uptakes, and similar sources of ignition must be kept clear of and suitably insulated from combustible material. Dry exhaust systems for internal combustion engines on wooden or fiber reinforced plastic vessels must be installed in accordance with ABYC P-1 (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 175.600). 


(c) *Separation of machinery and fuel tank spaces from accommodation spaces.* Machinery and fuel tank spaces must be separated from accommodation spaces by boundaries that prevent the passage of vapors.


(d) *Paint and flammable liquid lockers.* Paint and flammable liquid lockers must be constructed of steel or equivalent material, or wholly lined with steel or equivalent material.


(e) *Vapor barriers.* Vapor barriers must be provided where insulation of any type is used in spaces where flammable and combustible liquids or vapors are present, such as machinery spaces and paint lockers.


(f) *Waste receptacles.* Unless other means are provided to ensure that a potential waste receptacle fire would be limited to the receptacle, waste receptacles must be constructed of noncombustible materials with no openings in the sides or bottom.


(g) *Mattresses.* All mattresses must comply with either:


(1) The U.S. Department of Commerce “Standard for Mattress Flammability” (FF 4-72.16), 16 CFR Part 1632, Subpart A and not contain polyurethane foam; or


(2) IMO Resolution A.688(17) (incorporated by reference, see 46 CFR 175.600). Mattresses that are tested to this standard may contain polyurethane foam.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 961, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65206, Oct. 31, 2008]




