# § 1159.1   What definitions apply to these regulations?

The definitions of the Privacy Act apply to this part. In addition, as used in this part: 


(a) *Agency* means any executive department, military department, government corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal government, including the Executive Office of the President or any independent regulatory agency. 


(b) *Business day* means a calendar day, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays.


(c) *Chairperson* means the Chairperson of the Endowment, or his or her designee; 


(d) *Endowment* means the National Endowment for the Arts; 


(e) *Endowment* system means a system of records maintained by the Endowment; 


(f) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Endowment, or his or her designee. 


(g) *Individual* means any citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence; 


(h) *Maintain* means to collect, use, store, or disseminate records, as well as any combination of these recordkeeping functions. The term also includes exercise of control over and, therefore, responsibility and accountability for, systems of records; 


(i) *Privacy Act* means the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a); 


(j) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency and contains the individual's name or another identifying particular, such as a number or symbol assigned to the individual, or his or her fingerprint, voice print, or photograph. The term includes, but is not limited to, information regarding an individual's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history; 


(k) *Routine* use means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of a record for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected; 


(l) *Subject individual* means the individual to whom a record pertains. Uses of the terms “I”, “you”, “me”, and other references to the reader of the regulations in this part are meant to apply to subject individuals as defined in this paragraph (l); and 


(m) *System of records* means a group of records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by use of the name of the individual or by some number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. 




