# ยง 93.350   Other federal requirements and nondiscrimination; affirmative marketing.

(a) *General.* The Federal requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart A, are applicable to participants in the HTF program. The requirements of this subpart include: nondiscrimination and equal opportunity; disclosure requirements; debarred, suspended, or ineligible contractors; drug-free work; and housing counseling.


(b) *Affirmative marketing.* (1) Each grantee must adopt and follow affirmative marketing procedures and requirements for rental projects containing five or more HTF-assisted housing units and for homeownership assistance programs. Affirmative marketing steps consist of actions to provide information and otherwise attract eligible persons in the housing market area to the available housing without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, religion, familial status, or disability. If a grantee's written agreement with the project owner permits the rental housing project to limit tenant eligibility or to have a tenant preference in accordance with ยง 93.303(d)(3), the grantee must have affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that apply in the context of the limited/preferred tenant eligibility for the project.


(2) The affirmative marketing requirements and procedures adopted must include:


(i) Methods for informing the public, owners, and potential tenants about Federal fair housing laws and the grantee's affirmative marketing policy (*e.g.,* the use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan in press releases and solicitations for owners, and written communication to fair housing and other groups);


(ii) Requirements and practices the grantee and owner must adhere to in order to carry out the grantee's affirmative marketing procedures and requirements (*e.g.,* use of commercial media, use of community contacts, use of the Equal Housing Opportunity logotype or slogan, and display of fair housing poster);


(iii) Procedures to be used by the grantee and owners to inform and solicit applications from persons in the housing market area who are not likely to apply for the rental housing or homeownership assistance program without special outreach (*e.g.,* through the use of community organizations, places of worship, employment centers, fair housing groups, or housing counseling agencies);


(iv) Records that will be kept describing actions taken by the grantee and owners to affirmatively market rental housing units and homeownership assistance program and records to assess the results of these actions; and


(v) A description of how the grantee will annually assess the success of affirmative marketing actions and what corrective actions will be taken where affirmative marketing requirements are not met.


(3) A grantee that subgrants HTF funds to subgrantees must require each subgrantee to either follow the grantee's procedures and requirements or adopt its own affirmative marketing procedures and requirements that meet this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 5220, Jan. 30, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 90657, Dec. 14, 2016]




