# ยง 831.55   Relationships with other agencies.

(a) *Relationship with the USCG.* (1) The NTSB conducts marine casualty and major marine casualty investigations, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 1131(a)(1)(E) and (F), and part 850 of this chapter. The NTSB and USCG work together to collect evidence related to marine casualties and major marine causalities.


(2) The NTSB and USCG coordinate to avoid duplicative efforts to the maximum extent practicable.


(3) The NTSB independently analyzes the evidence and determines the probable cause of marine casualties and major marine causalities.


(b) *Relationships with other Federal agencies.* (1) Except as provided in 49 U.S.C. 1131(a)(2)(B) and (C) regarding suspected criminal actions, an investigation conducted under the authority of the NTSB has priority over any investigation conducted by another Federal agency.


(2) The NTSB will provide for appropriate participation by other Federal agencies in any NTSB investigation. Such agencies may not participate in the NTSB's probable cause determination.


(3) The NTSB has first right to access wreckage, information, and resources, and to interview witnesses the NTSB deems pertinent to its investigation.


(4) The NTSB and other Federal agencies will exchange information obtained or developed in the course of their investigations in a timely manner. Nothing in this section prohibits the NTSB from sharing factual information with other agencies.


(c) As indicated in ยง 831.59(c) of this part, the NTSB has exclusive authority to determine when and how the testing and examination of evidence will occur.


(d) The NTSB may take possession of records, wreckage, or information if it determines such possession is necessary for an investigation.


(e) *Investigations by Federal agencies.* (1) Nothing in this section impairs the authority of any other Federal agency to conduct an investigation of a marine casualty or major marine casualty.


(f) *Incident command system.* (1) The NTSB recognizes the role of incident command systems to address emergencies. The NTSB does not assume the role of a first responder agency.


(2) The NTSB IIC or his designee will participate in the incident command system to identify and coordinate investigative needs as it relates to the preservation and collection of information and evidence.


(3) The NTSB IIC or his designee will coordinate with the Coast Guard Investigation Officer to identify and coordinate investigative needs as it relates to the preservation and collection of information and evidence.


(4) The NTSB may collect information and evidence from an incident command in a timely and reasonable manner so as not to interfere with its operations.




