# § 1307.10   Procedure for effecting compliance.

(a) *General.* If there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part, and if the noncompliance or threatened noncompliance cannot be corrected by informal means, compliance with this part may be effected by the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant or to continue financial assistance or by any other means authorized by law. Such other means may include, but are not to be limited to, (1) a reference to the Department of Justice with a recommendation that appropriate proceedings be brought to enforce any rights of the United States under any law of the United States, (2) institution of appropriate proceedings by TVA to enforce the provisions of the agreement of financial assistance or of any deed or instrument relating thereto, and (3) any applicable proceeding under State or local law.


(b) *Noncompliance with § 1307.7.* If any entity requesting financial assistance from TVA declines to furnish the assurance required under § 1307.7, or otherwise fails or refuses to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to that section, financial assistance may be refused in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section; and for such purposes, the term “recipient” includes one who has been denied financial assistance. TVA shall not be required to provide assistance in such a case during the pendency of the administrative proceedings under such paragraph except that TVA shall continue assistance during the pendency of such proceedings where such assistance was due and payable pursuant to an agreement therefor entered into with TVA prior to the effective date of this part.


(c) *Termination of or refusal to grant or to continue financial assistance.* No order suspending, terminating or refusing to grant or continue financial assistance shall become effective until (1) TVA has advised the recipient of the failure to comply and has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) there has been an express finding on the record, after opportunity for hearing, of a failure by the recipient to comply with a requirement imposed by or pursuant to this part, including any act of discrimination on the basis of handicap in violation of this part, and (3) the action has been approved by the TVA Board pursuant to § 1307.12. Any action to suspend or terminate or to refuse to grant or to continue financial assistance shall be limited to the particular recipient as to whom such a finding had been made and shall be limited in its effect to the particular program or activity, or part thereof, in which such noncompliance had been so found. 


(d) *Other means authorized by law.* No action to effect compliance by any other means authorized by law shall be taken until (1) TVA has determined that compliance cannot be secured by voluntary means, (2) the recipient or other person has been notified of its failure to comply and of the action to be taken to effect compliance, and (3) the expiration of at least ten (10) days from the mailing of such notice to the recipient or other person. During this period of at least ten (10) days additional efforts will be made to persuade the recipient or other person to comply with this part and to take such corrective action as may be appropriate.



---

[N] [45 FR 22895, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51356, Aug. 26, 2003]




