# § 23.45   What are the requirements for submitting overall goal information to the FAA?

(a) You must submit your overall goals to the appropriate FAA Regional Civil Rights Office for approval. Your overall goals meeting the requirements of this subpart are due based on a schedule established by the FAA and posted on the FAA's website.


(b) You must then submit goals every three years based on the published schedule.


(c) Timely submission and FAA approval of your overall goals is a condition of eligibility for FAA financial assistance.


(d) In the time before you make your first submission under paragraph (a) of this section, you must continue to use the overall goals that have been approved by the FAA before the effective date of this part.


(e) Your overall goal submission must include a description of the method used to calculate your goals and the data you relied on. You must “show your work” to enable the FAA to understand how you concluded your goals were appropriate. This means that you must provide to the FAA the data, calculations, assumptions, and reasoning used in establishing your goals.


(f) Your submission must include your projection of the portions of your overall goals you propose to meet through use of race-neutral and race-conscious means, respectively, and the basis for making this projection (*see* § 23.51(d)(5))


(g) FAA may approve or disapprove the way you calculated your goal, including your race-neutral/race-conscious “split,” as part of its review of your plan or goal submission. Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the FAA does not approve or disapprove the goal itself (*i.e.*, the number).


(h) If the FAA determines that your goals have not been correctly calculated or the justification is inadequate, the FAA may, after consulting with you, adjust your overall goal or race-conscious/race-neutral “split.” The adjusted goal represents the FAA's determination of an appropriate overall goal for ACDBE participation in the recipient's concession program, based on relevant data and analysis. The adjusted goal is binding.


(i) If a new concession opportunity, the estimated average annual gross revenues of which are anticipated to be $200,000 or greater, arises at a time that falls between normal submission dates for overall goals, you must submit an appropriate adjustment to your overall goal to the FAA for approval no later than 90 days before issuing the solicitation for the new concession opportunity.



---

[N] [70 FR 14508, Mar. 22, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 36931, June 20, 2012; 89 FR 24962, Apr. 9, 2024]




