# § 600.153   Retention and access requirements for records.

(a) This section sets forth requirements for record retention and access to records for awards to recipients. DOE shall not impose any other record retention or access requirements upon recipients, unless such requirements are established in program regulations. 


(b) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, from the date of the submission of the quarterly or annual financial report, as authorized by DOE. The only exceptions are the following: 


(1) If any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken. 


(2) Records for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds shall be retained for 3 years after final disposition. 


(3) When records are transferred to or maintained by DOE, the 3-year retention requirement is not applicable to the recipient. 


(4) Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocations plans, and related records, for which retention requirements are specified in § 600.153(g). 


(c) Copies of original records may be substituted for the original records if authorized by DOE. 


(d) DOE shall request transfer of certain records to its custody from recipients when it determines that the records possess long term retention value. However, in order to avoid duplicate recordkeeping, DOE may make arrangements for recipients to retain any records that are continuously needed for joint use. 


(e) DOE, the Inspector General, Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, have the right of timely and unrestricted access to any books, documents, papers, or other records of recipients that are pertinent to the awards, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts and copies of such documents. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to a recipient's personnel for the purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents. The rights of access in this paragraph are not limited to the required retention period, but shall last as long as records are retained. 


(f) Unless required by statute, DOE shall place no restrictions on recipients that limit public access to the records of recipients that are pertinent to an award, except when DOE can demonstrate that such records shall be kept confidential and would have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if the records had belonged to DOE. 


(g) Paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section apply to the following types of documents, and their supporting records: indirect cost rate computations or proposals, cost allocation plans, and any similar accounting computations of the rate at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback rates or composite fringe benefit rates). 


(1) *If submitted for negotiation.* If the recipient submits to the Federal agency responsible for negotiating the recipient's indirect cost rate or the subrecipient submits to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation to form the basis for negotiation of the rate, then the 3-year retention period for its supporting records starts on the date of such submission. 


(2) *If not submitted for negotiation.* If the recipient is not required to submit to the cognizant Federal agency or the subrecipient is not required to submit to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation for negotiation purposes, then the 3-year retention period for the proposal, plan, or other computation and its supporting records starts at the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation. 


(h) If, by the terms and conditions of the award, the recipient or subrecipient—


(1) Is accountable for program income earned or received after the end of the project period or after the termination of an award or subaward, or 


(2) If program income earned during the project period is required to be applied to costs incurred after the end of the project period or after termination of an award or subaward, the record retention period shall start on the last day of the recipient's or subrecipient's fiscal year in which such income was earned or received or such costs were incurred. All other program income records shall be retained in accordance with § 600.153(b). 


