# § 417.144   Evaluation and determination procedures.

(a) *Basis for evaluation and determination.* (1) CMS evaluates an application for Federal qualification on the basis of information contained in the application itself and any additional information that CMS obtains through on-site visits, public hearings, and any other appropriate procedures. 


(2) If the application is incomplete, CMS notifies the entity and allows 60 days from the date of the notice for the entity to furnish the missing information. 


(3) After evaluating all relevant information, CMS determines whether the entity meets the applicable requirements of §§ 417.142 and 417.143. 


(b) *Notice of determination.* CMS notifies each entity that applies for qualification under this subpart of its determination and the basis for the determination. The determination may be granting of qualification, intent to deny, or denial. 


(c) *Intent to deny.* (1) If CMS finds that the entity does not appear to meet the requirements for qualification and appears to be able to meet those requirements within 60 days, CMS gives the entity notice of intent to deny qualification and a summary of the basis for this preliminary finding. 


(2) Within 60 days from the date of the notice, the entity may respond in writing to the issues or other matters that were the basis for CMS's preliminary finding, and may revise its application to remedy any defects identified by CMS. 


(d) *Denial and reconsideration of denial.* (1) If CMS denies an application for qualification under this subpart, CMS gives the entity written notice of the denial and an opportunity to request reconsideration of that determination. 


(2) A request for reconsideration must—


(i) Be submitted in writing, within 60 days following the date of the notice of denial; 


(ii) Be addressed to the CMS officer or employee who denied the application; and 


(iii) Set forth the grounds upon which the entity requests reconsideration, specifying the material issues of fact and of law upon which the entity relies. 


(3) CMS bases its reconsideration upon the record compiled during the qualification review proceedings, materials submitted in support of the request for reconsideration, and other relevant materials available to CMS. 


(4) CMS gives the entity written notice of the reconsidered determination and the basis for the determination. 


(e) *Information on qualified HMOs*—(1) _Federal Register_*notices.* In quarterly _Federal Register_ notices, CMS gives the names, addresses, and service areas of newly qualified HMOs and describes the expanded service areas of other qualified HMOs. 


(2) *Listings.* A cumulative list of qualified HMOs is available from the following office, which is open from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday: Office of Managed Care, room 4360, Cohen Building, 400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201. 



---

[N] [59 FR 49837, Sept. 30, 1994]




