# ยง 195.120   Passage of internal inspection devices.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each new pipeline and each main line section of a pipeline where the line pipe, valve, fitting or other line component is replaced must be designed and constructed to accommodate the passage of instrumented internal inspection devices in accordance with NACE SP0102 (incorporated by reference, *see* ยง 195.3).


(b) *Exceptions.* This section does not apply to:


(1) Manifolds;


(2) Station piping such as at pump stations, meter stations, or pressure reducing stations;


(3) Piping associated with tank farms and other storage facilities;


(4) Cross-overs;


(5) Pipe for which an instrumented internal inspection device is not commercially available; and


(6) Offshore pipelines, other than lines 10 inches (254 millimeters) or greater in nominal diameter, that transport liquids to onshore facilities.


(c) *Impracticability.* An operator may file a petition under ยง 190.9 for a finding that the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section should not be applied to a pipeline for reasons of impracticability.


(d) *Emergencies.* An operator need not comply with paragraph (a) of this section in constructing a new or replacement segment of a pipeline in an emergency. Within 30 days after discovering the emergency, the operator must file a petition under ยง 190.9 for a finding that requiring the design and construction of the new or replacement pipeline segment to accommodate passage of instrumented internal inspection devices would be impracticable as a result of the emergency. If PHMSA denies the petition, within 1 year after the date of the notice of the denial, the operator must modify the new or replacement pipeline segment to allow passage of instrumented internal inspection devices.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-102, 84 FR 52294, Oct. 1, 2019]




