# § 1030.3   General disclosure requirements.

(a) *Form.* Depository institutions shall make the disclosures required by §§ 1030.4 through 1030.6 of this part, as applicable, clearly and conspicuously, in writing, and in a form the consumer may keep. The disclosures required by this part may be provided to the consumer in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001 *et seq.*). The disclosures required by §§ 1030.4(a)(2) and 1030.8 may be provided to the consumer in electronic form without regard to the consumer consent or other provisions of the E-Sign Act in the circumstances set forth in those sections. Disclosures for each account offered by an institution may be presented separately or combined with disclosures for the institution's other accounts, as long as it is clear which disclosures are applicable to the consumer's account.


(b) *General.* The disclosures shall reflect the terms of the legal obligation of the account agreement between the consumer and the depository institution. Disclosures may be made in languages other than English, provided the disclosures are available in English upon request.


(c) *Relation to Regulation E (12 CFR Part 1005).* Disclosures required by and provided in accordance with the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693 *et seq.*) and its implementing Regulation E (12 CFR Part 1005) that are also required by this part may be substituted for the disclosures required by this part.


(d) *Multiple consumers.* If an account is held by more than one consumer, disclosures may be made to any one of the consumers.


(e) *Oral response to inquiries.* In an oral response to a consumer's inquiry about interest rates payable on its accounts, the depository institution shall state the annual percentage yield. The interest rate may be stated in addition to the annual percentage yield. No other rate may be stated.


(f) *Rounding and accuracy rules for rates and yields*—(1) *Rounding.* The annual percentage yield, the annual percentage yield earned, and the interest rate shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percentage point (.01%) and expressed to two decimal places. For account disclosures, the interest rate may be expressed to more than two decimal places.


(2) *Accuracy.* The annual percentage yield (and the annual percentage yield earned) will be considered accurate if not more than one-twentieth of one percentage point (.05%) above or below the annual percentage yield (and the annual percentage yield earned) determined in accordance with the rules in appendix A of this part.




