# § 740.14   Baggage (BAG).

(a) *Scope.* This License Exception authorizes individuals leaving the United States either temporarily (i.e., traveling) or longer-term (i.e., moving) and crew members of exporting or reexporting carriers to take to any destination, as personal baggage, the classes of commodities, software and technology described in this section.


(b) *Eligibility.* Individuals leaving the United States may export or reexport any of the following commodities or software for personal use of the individuals or members of their immediate families traveling with them to any destination or series of destinations. Individuals leaving the United States who are U.S. persons, as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i), may export or reexport technology as a tool of trade under paragraph (b)(4) for their personal use or for the personal use of members of their immediate families who are traveling or moving with them, provided they are also U.S. persons, as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i), to any destination or series of destinations. Technology exports and reexports authorized under paragraph (b)(4) of this section may be made as actual shipments, transmissions, or releases. Individuals leaving the United States temporarily (i.e., traveling) must bring back items exported and reexported under this License Exception unless they consume the items abroad or are otherwise authorized to dispose of them under the EAR. Crew members may export or reexport only commodities and software described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section to any destination.


(1) *Personal effects.* Usual and reasonable kinds and quantities for personal use of wearing apparel, articles of personal adornment, toilet articles, medicinal supplies, food, souvenirs, games, and similar personal effects, and their containers.


(2) *Household effects.* Usual and reasonable kinds and quantities for personal use of furniture, household effects, household furnishings, and their containers.


(3) *Vehicles.* Usual and reasonable kinds and quantities of vehicles, such as passenger cars, station wagons, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, bicycles, tricycles, perambulators, and their containers.


(4) *Tools of trade.* Usual and reasonable kinds and quantities of tools, instruments, or equipment and their containers and also technology for use in the trade, occupation, employment, vocation, or hobby of the traveler or members of the household who are traveling or moving. For special provisions regarding firearms and ammunition, see paragraph (e) of this section. For special provisions regarding encryption commodities and software subject to EI controls, see paragraph (f) of this section. For a special provision that specifies restrictions regarding the export or reexport of technology under this paragraph (b)(4), see paragraph (g) of this section. For special provisions regarding personal protective equipment under ECCN 1A613.c or .d, see paragraph (h) of this section.


(i) For purposes of this paragraph (b), U.S. person is defined as follows: an individual who is a citizen of the United States, an individual who is a lawful permanent resident as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(2) or an individual who is a protected individual as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3).


(ii) [Reserved]


(c) *Limits on eligibility.* The export of any item is limited or prohibited, if the kind or quantity is in excess of the limits described in this section. In addition, the items must be:


(1) Owned by the individuals (or by members of their immediate families) or by crew members of exporting carriers on the dates they depart from the United States;


(2) Intended for and necessary and appropriate for the use of the individuals or members of their immediate families traveling with them, or by the crew members of exporting carriers;


(3) Not intended for sale or other disposal; and


(4) Not exported under a bill of lading as cargo if exported by crew members.


(d) *Special provision: unaccompanied baggage.* Individuals departing the United States may ship unaccompanied baggage, which is baggage sent from the United States on a carrier other than that on which an individual departs. Crew members of exporting carriers may not ship unaccompanied baggage. Unaccompanied shipments under this License Exception shall be clearly marked “BAGGAGE.” Shipments of unaccompanied baggage may be made at the time of, or within a reasonable time before or after departure of the consignee or owner from the United States. Personal baggage controlled for chemical and biological weapons (CB), missile technology (MT), national security (NS), encryption items (EI) or nuclear nonproliferation (NP) must be shipped within 3 months before or after the month in which the consignee or owner departs the United States. However, commodities controlled for CB, MT, NS, EI or NP may not be exported under this License Exception as unaccompanied baggage to Country Groups D:1, D:2, D:3, D:4, or E:1. (See supplement no. 1 of this part). 


(e) *Special provisions for firearms and ammunition.* (1) A United States citizen or a permanent resident alien leaving the United States may export or reexport shotguns with a barrel length of 18 inches or over controlled under ECCN 0A502 and 0A508 and shotgun shells controlled under ECCN 0A505.b and .c under this License Exception, subject to the following limitations:


(i) Not more than three firearms may be taken on any one trip (this includes shotguns in ECCNs 0A502 or 0A508, as well as firearms in ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, or 0A507).


(ii) The shotguns and shotgun shells must be with the person's baggage.


(iii) The shotguns and shotgun shells must be for the person's exclusive use for legitimate hunting or lawful sporting purposes, scientific purposes, or personal protection, and not for resale or other transfer of ownership or control. Accordingly, except as provided in (e)(2) of this section, shotguns may not be exported permanently under this License Exception. All shotguns and unused shotgun shells must be returned to the United States. Note that since certain countries may require an Import Certificate or a U.S. export license before allowing the import of a shotgun, you should determine the import requirements of your country of destination in advance.


(2) A nonresident alien leaving the United States may export or reexport under this License Exception only such shotguns and shotgun shells as he or she brought into the United States under the provisions of the Department of Justice Regulations (27 CFR 478.115(d)).


(3) A United States citizen or a permanent resident alien leaving the United States may export under this License Exception firearms, “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” or “attachments” controlled under ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, and 0A509 and ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505.a, subject to the following limitations:


(i) Not more than three firearms may be taken on any one trip (this includes firearms in ECCNs 0A501, 0A506, or 0A507, as well as shotguns in ECCNs 0A502 or 0A508), and no more than 1,000 rounds of ammunition may be taken on any one trip.


(ii) “Parts,” “components,” “accessories,” and “attachments” exported pursuant to this paragraph (e)(3) must be of a kind and limited to quantities that are reasonable for the activities described in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section or that are necessary for routine maintenance of the firearms being exported.


(iii) The commodities must be with the person's baggage.


(iv) The commodities must be for the person's exclusive use and not for resale or other transfer of ownership or control. Accordingly, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, firearms, “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” “attachments,” and ammunition, may not be exported permanently under this License Exception. All firearms, “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” or “attachments” controlled under ECCN 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, and 0A509 and all unused ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505.a exported under this License Exception must be returned to the United States.


(v) Travelers leaving the United States temporarily are required to declare the firearms, “parts,” “components,” “accessories,” “attachments,” and ammunition being exported under this License Exception to a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officer prior to departure from the United States and present such items to the CBP officer for inspection, confirming that the authority for the export is License Exception BAG and that the exporter is compliant with its terms.


(4) A nonimmigrant alien leaving the United States may export or reexport under this License Exception only such firearms controlled under ECCN 0A501, 0A506, 0A507, and ammunition controlled under ECCN 0A505 as he or she brought into the United States under the relevant provisions of Department of Justice regulations at 27 CFR part 478.


(5) Destination eligibility under this License Exception for items controlled under ECCNs 0A501, 0A502, 0A504, 0A505, 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, or 0A509 is limited to countries other than those in Country Group D:5 (except for Zimbabwe) and “CARICOM” countries.




(f) *Special provisions: encryption commodities and software subject to EI controls on the Commerce Control List.* (1) A U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20) may use this license exception to export or reexport encryption commodities and software to any destination not in Country Group E:1 of supplement no. 1 of this part. 


(2) A person other than a U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States as defined by 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20) (except a national of a country listed in Country Group E:1 of supplement no. 1 of this part who is not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident alien of the United States) may also use this license exception to export or reexport encryption commodities and software to any destination not in Country Group E:1 of supplement no. 1 of this part.


(g) *Special provision: restrictions for Export or Reexport of Technology.* This authorization for the export or reexport of technology under the tools of trade provisions of paragraph (b)(4) of this section may be used only if:


(1) The technology is to be used overseas solely by individuals or members of their immediate families traveling with them provided they are U.S. persons as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i).


(2) The exporting or reexporting party and the recipient take adequate security precautions to protect against unauthorized access to the technology while the technology is being transmitted and used overseas. Examples of security precautions to help prevent unauthorized access include the following:


(i) Use of secure connections, such as Virtual Private Network connections when accessing IT networks for e-mail and other business activities that involve the transmission and use of the technology authorized under this license exception;


(ii) Use of password systems on electronic devices that will store the technology authorized under this license exception; and


(iii) Use of personal firewalls on electronic devices that will store the technology authorized under this license exception.


(3) The technology authorized under these provisions may not be used for foreign production purposes or for technical assistance unless authorized by BIS;


(4) Any encryption item controlled under ECCN 5E002 is not exported or reexported to any destination listed in Country Group E:1 of supplement no. 1 of this part.


(h) *Special provisions: personal protective equipment classified under ECCN 1A613.c or .d*—(1) *Exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to countries not identified in Country Group D:5.* U.S. persons may export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries not identified in Country Group D:5, provided that:


(i) The items are with the U.S. person's baggage or effects, whether accompanied or unaccompanied (but not mailed); *and*

(ii) The items are for that person's exclusive use and not for transfer of ownership unless reexported or transferred (in-country) to another U.S. person.


(2) *Exports, reexports, or in-country transfers to countries identified in Country Group D:5*—(i) *Iraq.* U.S. persons may export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to Iraq, for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are met. In addition, the U.S. person must be affiliated with the U.S. Government and traveling on official business or traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract, or the U.S. person must be traveling to Iraq under a direct authorization by the Government of Iraq and engaging in activities for, on behalf of, or at the request of, the Government of Iraq. Documentation regarding direct authorization from the Government of Iraq shall include an English translation.


(ii) *Other countries in Country Group D:5.* U.S. persons may export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) one set of body armor classified under ECCN 1A613.d (which may include one helmet classified under ECCN 1A613.c) or one set of chemical or biological agent protective gear classified under ECCN 1A607.f (which may include one additional filter canister classified under ECCN 1A607.x) to countries in Country Group D:5 (except Iraq), for personal use, provided that the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are met, and the U.S. person is affiliated with the U.S. Government traveling on official business or is traveling in support of a U.S. Government contract.



---

[N] [61 FR 12768, Mar. 25, 1996. Redesignated at 61 FR 64274, Dec. 4, 1996. Redesignated at 61 FR 68579, Dec. 30, 1996]


