# § 9.79   Lake Michigan Shore.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Lake Michigan Shore.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the Lake Michigan Shore viticultural area are four U.S.G.S. maps, 1:250,000 series. They are entitled: (1) Chicago (1953, revised 1970); (2) Fort Wayne (1953, revised 1969); (3) Racine (1958, revised 1969); and (4) Grand Rapids (1958, revised 1980).


(c) *Boundaries.* The Lake Michigan Shore viticultural area is located in the southwestern corner of the State of Michigan. The boundaries of the Lake Michigan Shore viticultural area, using landmarks and points of reference found on the appropriate U.S.G.S maps, are as follows:


(1) Starting at the most northern point, the intersection the Kalamazoo River with Lake Michigan.


(2) Then southeast along the winding course of the Kalamazoo River for approximately 35 miles until it intersects the Penn Central railroad line just south of the City of Otsego.


(3) Then south along the Penn Central railroad line, through the City of Kalamazoo, approximately 25 miles until it intersects the Grand Trunk Western railroad line at the community of Schoolcraft.


(4) Then southwest along the Grand Trunk Western railroad line approximately 35 miles to the Michigan/ Indiana State line.


(5) Then west along the Michigan-Indiana State line approximately 38 miles until it meets Lake Michigan.


(6) Then north along the eastern shore of Lake Michigan approximately 72 miles to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-153, 48 FR 46526, Oct. 13, 1983, as amended by T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5959, Feb. 27, 1987]




