# § 128.24   Informal entry procedures.

(a) *Eligibility.* Informal entry procedures may generally be used for shipments not exceeding $2,500 in value which are imported by express consignment operators and carriers. Individual shipments valued at $2,500 or less may be consolidated on one entry. Such procedures, however, may not be used for prohibited or restricted merchandise, merchandise which is subject to a quota or other quantitative restraints, or for any articles precluded from informal entry procedures by virtue of section 498, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1498).


(b) *Procedures.* CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, appropriately modified to cover all importations under the special procedures contained in this part, must be submitted prior to the commencement of hub or express consignment carrier facility operations. The party who may make entry under § 143.26 of this chapter may submit a copy of the invoice or the advance manifest as described in § 128.21 in lieu of other control documents.


(c) *Alternative procedure.* The party who may make entry under § 143.26 of this chapter may be required to submit an individual CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, covering the eligible shipments on a daily basis or by flight basis. Commercial invoices or advance manifests must be attached to the CBP Form 3461, or its electronic equivalent, which will contain the entry number and such other information deemed necessary by the port director. A notation must be placed on the CBP Form 3461 that the entry covers multiple shipments.


(d) *Entry summary.* An entry summary (CBP Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent) must be presented in proper form, and estimated duties deposited within 10 days of the release of the merchandise under either the regular or alternative procedure described in this section. However, see paragraph (e) of this section if the shipment is valued at $800 or less.


(e) *Shipments valued at $800 or less.* Shipments valued at $800 or less meeting the requirements of § 10.151 of this chapter will be passed free of duty and tax. Such shipments must be segregated on the manifest from shipments valued at more than $800 if an advance manifest is used as the entry document, as provided for in § 128.21. If such an advance manifest is used as the entry document, the following are not required to be provided for shipments qualifying under this paragraph:


(1) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading number (see § 128.21(a)(4)); and


(2) An entry summary (see paragraph (d) of this section).



---

[N] [T.D. 89-53, 54 FR 19566, May 8, 1989, as amended by T.D. 94-51, 59 FR 30294, June 13, 1994; T.D. 95-31, 60 FR 18991, Apr. 14, 1995; T.D. 98-28, 63 FR 16417, Apr. 3, 1998; 77 FR 72720, Dec. 6, 2012; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61287, Oct. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. No. 16-13, 81 FR 58833, Aug. 26, 2016]




