# § 721.10002   2-Thiazolidinone.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-thiazolidinone (PMN P-97-415; CAS No. 2682-49-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 meet the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator (either half- or full-face) equipped with N100 (if aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.7 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to the § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under 40 CFR 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will receive NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding section 5(e) consent order.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv) (use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.7 mg/m
3), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following statement shall appear on each label as specified in § 721.72(b) and the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) as specified in § 721.72(c). The substance may cause severe eye irritation. The substance may cause internal organ effects (blood, liver, and kidney). The substance may cause developmental/maternal effects. When handling this substance as a powder, use respiratory protection.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (g), (p) (300,000 kilograms), (v)(1), (w)(1), and (x)(1).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(3).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 14697, Mar. 29, 2007]




