# § 110.158   Baltimore Harbor, MD.

(a) *Anchorage Grounds*—(1) *No. 1, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 12 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(2) *Anchorage No. 2, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 72 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(3) *Anchorage No. 3A, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 24 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(4) *Anchorage No. 3B, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 24 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(5) *Anchorage No. 3C, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 72 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(6) *Anchorage No. 4, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 24 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(7) *Anchorage No. 5, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 72 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(8) *Anchorage No. 6, general anchorage.* (i) All waters of the Patapsco River, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) No vessel shall remain in this anchorage for more than 72 hours without permission from the Captain of the Port.


(9) *Anchorage No. 7, Dead ship anchorage.* (i) All waters of Curtis Bay, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) The primary use of this anchorage is to lay up dead ships. Such use has priority over other uses. Permission from the Captain of the Port must be obtained prior to the use of this anchorage for more than 72 hours.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Certain dangerous cargo* means *certain dangerous cargo* as defined in § 160.202 of this chapter.


*COTP* means Captain of the Port Sector Maryland—National Capital Region.


(c) *General regulations.* (1) Except as otherwise provided, this section applies to vessels over 20 meters long and all vessels carrying or handling certain dangerous cargo while anchored in an anchorage ground described in this section.


(2) Except in cases where unforeseen circumstances create conditions of imminent peril, or with the permission of the Captain of the Port, no vessel shall be anchored in Baltimore Harbor or the Patapsco River outside of the anchorage areas established in this section for more than 24 hours. No vessel shall anchor within a tunnel, cable or pipeline area shown on a government chart. No vessel shall be moored, anchored, or tied up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such manner as to extend into established channel limits. No vessel shall be positioned so as to obstruct or endanger the passage of any other vessel.


(3) Except in an emergency, a vessel that is likely to sink or otherwise become an obstruction to navigation or the anchoring of other vessels may not occupy an anchorage, unless the vessel obtains permission from the Captain of the Port.


(4) Upon notification by the Captain of the Port to shift its position, a vessel at anchor must get underway and shall move to its new designated position within two hours after notification.


(5) The Captain of the Port may prescribe specific conditions for vessels anchoring within the anchorages described in this section, including, but not limited to, the number and location of anchors, scope of chain, readiness of engineering plant and equipment, usage of tugs, and requirements for maintaining communication guards on selected radio frequencies.


(6) No vessel at anchor or at a mooring within an anchorage may transfer oil to or from another vessel unless the vessel has given the Captain of the Port the four hours advance notice required by § 156.118 of this chapter.


(7) No vessel shall anchor in a “dead ship” status (propulsion or control unavailable for normal operations) without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0181, 84 FR 16780, Apr. 23, 2019]




