# ยง 172.820   Polyethylene glycol (mean molecular weight 200-9,500).

Polyethylene glycol identified in this section may be safely used in food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) *Identity.* (1) The additive is an addition polymer of ethylene oxide and water with a mean molecular weight of 200 to 9,500.


(2) It contains no more than 0.2 percent total by weight of ethylene and diethylene glycols when tested by the analytical methods prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Analytical method.* (1) The analytical method prescribed in the National Formulary XV (1980), page 1244, for polyethylene glycol 400 shall be used to determine the total ethylene and diethylene glycol content of polyethylene glycols having mean molecular weights of 450 or higher.


(2) The following analytical method shall be used to determine the total ethylene and diethylene glycol content of polyethylene glycols having mean molecular weights below 450.


(c) *Uses.* It may be used, except in milk or preparations intended for addition to milk, as follows:


(1) As a coating, binder, plasticizing agent, and/or lubricant in tablets used for food.


(2) As an adjuvant to improve flavor and as a bodying agent in nonnutritive sweeteners identified in ยง 180.37 of this chapter.


(3) As an adjuvant in dispersing vitamin and/or mineral preparations.


(4) As a coating on sodium nitrite to inhibit hygroscopic properties.


(d) *Limitations.* (1) It is used in an amount not greater than that required to produce the intended physical or technical effect.


(2) A tolerance of zero is established for residues of polyethylene glycol in milk.



---

[N] [42 FR 14491, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 10105, Mar. 19, 1984]




