# ยง 9701.708   Mandatory Removal Panel.

(a) *Composition.* (1) The Mandatory Review Panel is a standing panel composed of three members who will be appointed by the Secretary for terms of 3 years, except that the appointments of the initial MRP members will be for terms of 2, 3, and 4 years, respectively. The Secretary may extend the term of any member beyond 3 years when necessary to provide for an orderly transition and/or appoint the member for an additional term.


(2) Members of the MRP must be independent, distinguished citizens of the United States who are well known for their integrity and impartiality. Members must have expertise in either labor or employee relations or law enforcement/homeland security matters. At least one member of the Board must have experience in labor relations. Members may be removed by the Secretary on the same grounds as an MSPB member.


(3) An individual chosen to fill a vacancy on the MRP will be appointed for the unexpired term of the member who is replaced.


(b) *Appointment of the Chair.* The Secretary, at his or her sole and exclusive discretion, will appoint one member to serve as Chair of the MRP.


(c) *Appointment procedures for non-Chair MRP members.* (1) The appointments of the two non-Chair MRP members will be made by the Secretary after he or she considers any lists of nominees submitted by labor organizations that represent employees in the Department of Homeland Security.


(2) The submission of lists of recommended nominees by labor organizations must be in accordance with timelines and requirements set forth by the Secretary, who may provide for additional consultation in order to obtain further information about a recommended nominee. The ability of the Secretary to appoint MRP members may not be delayed or otherwise affected by the failure of any labor organization to provide a list of nominees that meets the timeframe and requirements established by the Secretary. 




