# ยง 36.4510   Prepayment, acceleration, and liquidation.

(a) Any credit on the loan not previously applied in satisfaction of matured installments, other than the gratuity credit required by prior provisions of law to be credited to principal, may be reapplied by the Department of Veterans Affairs at the request of the borrower for the purpose of curing or preventing a default. 


(b) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall include in the instruments evidencing or securing the indebtedness provisions relating to the following: 


(1) The right of the borrower to prepay at any time without premium or fee, the entire indebtedness or any part thereof: *Provided,* That any such prepayment, other than payment in full, may not be made in any amount less than the amount of one installment, or $100, whichever is less: *And provided further,* That any prepayment made on other than an installment due date will not be credited until the next following installment due date, but not later than 30 days after such prepayment. 


(2) The right of the Department of Veterans Affairs to accelerate the maturity of the entire indebtedness in the event of default. 


(3) The right of the Department of Veterans Affairs to foreclose or otherwise proceed to liquidate or acquire property which is the security for the loan in the event of the borrower's delinquency in the repayment of the obligation or in the event of default in any other provisions of the loan contract. 


(c) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall have the right to accelerate the entire indebtedness and to foreclose or otherwise proceed to liquidate, or acquire the security for the loan, in the event the veteran is adjudged a bankrupt, or if the property has been abandoned by the borrower or subjected to waste or hazard, or in the event conditions exist which warrant the appointment of a receiver by court. 



---

[N] [15 FR 6289, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 20 FR 6260, Aug. 26, 1955; 24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959; 41 FR 44859, Oct. 13, 1976; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996] 




