# ยง 40.91   Certain aliens previously removed.

(a) *5-year bar.* An alien who has been found inadmissible, whether as a result of a summary determination of inadmissibility at the port of entry under INA 235(b)(1) or of a finding of inadmissibility resulting from proceedings under INA 240 initiated upon the alien's arrival in the United States, shall be ineligible for a visa under INA 212(a)(9)(A)(i) for 5 years following such alien's first removal from the United States.


(b) *10-year bar.* An alien who has otherwise been removed from the United States under any provision of law, or who departed while an order of removal was in effect, is ineligible for a visa under INA 212(a)(9)(A)(ii) for 10 years following such removal or departure from the United States. 


(c) *20-year bar.* An alien who has been removed from the United States two or more times shall be ineligible for a visa under INA 212(a)(9)(A)(i) or INA 212(a)(9)(A)(ii), as appropriate, for 20 years following the most recent such removal or departure. 


(d) *Permanent bar.* If an alien who has been removed has also been convicted of an aggravated felony, the alien is permanently ineligible for a visa under INA 212(a)(9)(A)(i) or 212(a)(9)(A)(ii), as appropriate. 


(e) *Exceptions.* An alien shall not be ineligible for a visa under INA 212(a)(9)(A)(i) or (ii) if the Secretary of Homeland Security has consented to the alien's application for admission. 



---

[N] [62 FR 67568, Dec. 29, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 64628, Nov. 23, 1998]




