# § 744.3   Restrictions on certain rocket systems (including ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles and sounding rockets) and unmanned aerial vehicles (including cruise missiles, target drones and reconnaissance drones) end-uses.

(a) *General prohibition.* In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) an item subject to the EAR without a license if, at the time of export, reexport or transfer (in-country) you know that the item:


(1) Will be used in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles capable of a range of at least 300 kilometers in or by a country listed in Country Group D:4 of supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR.


(2) Will be used anywhere in the world except by governmental programs for nuclear weapons delivery of NPT Nuclear Weapons States that are also members of NATO, in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, regardless of range capabilities, for the delivery of chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons; or


(3) Will be used in the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of any rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles in or by a country listed in Country Group D:4, but you are unable to determine:


(i) The characteristics (*i.e.,* range capabilities) of the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, or


(ii) Whether the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, regardless of range capabilities, will be used in a manner prohibited under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) *Additional prohibition on persons informed by BIS.* BIS may inform persons, either individually by specific notice or through amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for a specific export, reexport or transfer (in-country) or for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of specified items to a certain end-user, because there is an unacceptable risk of use in, or diversion to, the activities specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. Specific notice is to be given only by, or at the direction of, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. When such notice is provided orally, it will be followed by a written notice within two working days signed by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. However, the absence of any such notification does not excuse persons from compliance with the license requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section.


(c) *Exceptions.* No License Exceptions apply to the prohibitions described in paragraph (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) *License review standards.* (1) Applications to export, reexport or transfer (in-country) the items subject to this section will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export, reexport or transfer (in-country) would make a material contribution to the proliferation of certain rocket systems, or unmanned aerial vehicles. When an export, reexport or transfer (in-country) is deemed to make a material contribution, the license will be denied.


(2) The following factors are among those that will be considered to determine what action should be taken on an application required by this section:


(i) The specific nature of the end use;


(ii) The significance of the export, reexport or transfer in terms of its contribution to the design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing of certain rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles;


(iii) The capabilities and objectives of the rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles of the recipient country;


(iv) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country;


(v) The types of assurances or guarantees against design, “development,” “production,” operation, installation (including on-site installation), maintenance (checking), repair, overhaul, or refurbishing for certain rocket system or unmanned aerial vehicle delivery purposes that are given in a particular case; and


(vi) The existence of a pre-existing contract.



---

[N] [61 FR 12802, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 25459, May 9, 1997; 69 FR 64659, Nov. 8, 2004; 70 FR 11861, Mar. 10, 2005; 73 FR 68326, Nov. 18, 2008; 82 FR 31446, July 7, 2017; 86 FR 4871, Jan. 15, 2021]




