# ยง 283.22   Form; filing; service; proof of service; computation of time; and extensions of time.

(a) *Form.* (1) The original and two copies of all papers in a proceeding conducted under this subpart shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk.


(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the docket number assigned by the Hearing Clerk, and a descriptive title (e.g., Motion for Extension of Time).


(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by and contain the address and telephone number of the representative for the party on whose behalf the paper was filed.


(b) *Filing.* Papers are considered filed when they are postmarked, or, received, if hand delivered. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.


(c) *Service.* A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document shall be made by delivering or mailing a copy to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by an attorney or designated representative, service shall be made upon such attorney or representative in lieu of the actual party.


(d) *Proof of service.* A certificate of the person serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting forth the date, time and manner of service, shall be proof of service.


(e) *Computation of time.* (1) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday observed by the Federal Government, in which event it includes the next business day.


(2) When a document has been served by mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.


(f) *Extensions of time.* Requests for extensions of time shall be submitted to the ALJ, Chief Judge or the Judicial Officer prior to the expiration of the original due date. The time for the filing of any document or paper required or authorized under the rules in this part may be extended by the ALJ, Chief Judge or the Judicial Officer, if, in the judgment of the ALJ, Chief Judge or the Judicial Officer, there is cause for the extension. In instances where the time permits notice of the request for extension, time shall be given to the other party to submit views concerning the request.




