# § 8.3   Definitions.

*4-H Club Name and Emblem* as used in this part means the emblem consisting of a green four-leaf clover with stem and the letter “H” in white or gold on each leaflet, or any insignia in colorable imitation thereof, or the words, “4-H Club,” “4-H Clubs” or any combination of these or other words or characters in colorable imitation thereof.


*Cooperative Extension Service,* as used in this part includes the entire Cooperative Extension System consisting of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture; the State Cooperative Extension Services; and the County Cooperative Extension Services.


*County Cooperative Extension Service* as used in this part refers to a county Extension office or equivalent Extension office operating under a State Cooperative Extension Service.


*National Institute of Food and Agriculture* as used in this part means the Federal agency within the United States Department of Agriculture that administers Federal agricultural cooperative extension programs.


*State Cooperative Extension Service* as used in this part means an organization established at the land-grant college or university under the Smith-Lever Act of May 8, 1914, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349); section 209(b) of the Act of October 26, 1974, as amended (D.C. Code, through section 31-1719(b)); or section 1444 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3221). 



---

[N] [50 FR 31582, Aug. 2, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 8432, Mar. 17, 1987; 52 FR 47660, Dec. 15, 1987; 60 FR 52293, Oct. 6, 1995; 76 FR 4803, Jan. 27, 2011]




