# ยง 275.204(b)-1   Reporting by investment advisers to private funds.

(a) *Reporting by investment advisers to private funds on Form PF.* If you are an investment adviser registered or required to be registered under section 203 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80b-3), you act as an investment adviser to one or more private funds and, as of the end of your most recently completed fiscal year, you managed private fund assets of at least $150 million, you must complete and file a report on Form PF (17 CFR 279.9) by following the instructions in the Form, which specify the information that an investment adviser must provide. Your initial report on Form PF is due no later than the last day on which your next update would be timely in accordance with paragraph (e) if you had previously filed the Form; provided that you are not required to file Form PF with respect to any fiscal quarter or fiscal year ending prior to the date on which your registration becomes effective.


(b) *Electronic filing.* You must file Form PF electronically with the Form PF filing system on the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD).


(c) *When filed.* Each Form PF is considered filed with the Commission upon acceptance by the Form PF filing system.


(d) *Filing fees.* You must pay the operator of the Form PF filing system a filing fee as required by the instructions to Form PF. The Commission has approved the amount of the filing fee. No portion of the filing fee is refundable. Your completed Form PF will not be accepted by the operator of the Form PF filing system, and thus will not be considered filed with the Commission, until you have paid the filing fee.


(e) *Updates to Form PF.* You must file an updated Form PF:


(1) At least annually, no later than the date specified in the instructions to Form PF; and


(2) More frequently, if required by the instructions to Form PF. You must file all updated reports electronically with the Form PF filing system.


(f) *Temporary hardship exemption.* (1) If you have unanticipated technical difficulties that prevent you from submitting Form PF on a timely basis through the Form PF filing system, you may request a temporary hardship exemption from the requirements of this section to file electronically.


(2) To request a temporary hardship exemption, you must:




(i) Complete and file in paper format, in accordance with the instructions to Form PF, Item A of Section 1a and Section 7 of Form PF, checking the box in Section 1a indicating that you are requesting a temporary hardship exemption, no later than one business day after the electronic Form PF filing was due; and






(ii) Submit the filing that is the subject of the Form PF paper filing in electronic format with the Form PF filing system no later than seven business days after the filing was due.




(3) The temporary hardship exemption will be granted when you file Item A of Section 1a and Section 7 of Form PF, checking the box in Section 1a indicating that you are requesting a temporary hardship exemption.




(4) The hardship exemptions available under ยง 275.203-3 do not apply to Form PF.


(g) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Assets under management* means the regulatory assets under management as determined under Item 5.F of Form ADV (ยง 279.1 of this chapter).


(2) *Private fund assets* means the investment adviser's assets under management attributable to private funds.



---

[N] [76 FR 71174, Nov. 16, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 38202, June 12, 2023]


