# ยง 12.121   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Certification required.* (1) The importer or the authorized agent of such an importer of a TSCA chemical substance in bulk form or as part of a mixture, must certify in writing or electronically that the chemical shipment complies with all applicable rules and orders under TSCA by filing with CBP the following statement: 


(2) The importer or the authorized agent of such an importer of any TSCA-excluded chemical not clearly identified as such must certify in writing or electronically that the chemical shipment is not subject to TSCA by filing with CBP the following statement:


(3) *Filing of certification.* (i) The appropriate certification required under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the director of the port of entry in writing or electronically to the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) system or any other CBP-authorized EDI system prior to release of the shipment. For each entry subject to certification under paragraph (a), the name, phone number, and email address of the certifier (the importer or the importer's authorized agent) shall be included.


(ii) Written certifications must appear as a typed or stamped statement:


(A) On an appropriate entry document or commercial invoice or on an attachment to that entry document or invoice; or


(B) In the event of release under a special permit for an immediate delivery as provided for in ยง 142.21 of this chapter or in the case of an entry as provided for in ยง 142.3 of this chapter, on the commercial invoice or on an attachment to that invoice.


(b) *TSCA chemical substances or mixtures as parts of articles.* An importer of a TSCA chemical substance or mixture as part of an article must comply with the certification requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section only if required to do so by a rule or order issued under TSCA.


(c) *Facsimile signatures.* The certification statements required under paragraph (a) of this section may be signed by means of an authorized facsimile signature.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 16-28, 81 FR 94985, Dec. 27, 2016]




