# § 62.16015   What are the performance testing, monitoring, and calibration requirements for compliance with the emission limits and standards?

You must meet, as applicable, the performance testing requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the air pollution control device inspections requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the bypass stack provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(a) *Performance testing requirements.* (1) All performance tests must consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under conditions representative of normal operations, as specified in § 60.8(c) of this chapter. Emissions in excess of the emission limits or standards during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction are considered deviations from the applicable emission limits or standards.


(2) You must document that the dry sludge burned during the performance test is representative of the sludge burned under normal operating conditions by:


(i) Maintaining a log of the quantity of sewage sludge burned during the performance test by continuously monitoring and recording the average hourly rate that sewage sludge is fed to the incinerator.


(ii) Maintaining a log of the moisture content of the sewage sludge burned during the performance test by taking grab samples of the sewage sludge fed to the incinerator for each 8 hour period that testing is conducted.


(3) All performance tests must be conducted using the test methods, minimum sampling volume, observation period, and averaging method specified in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart.


(4) Method 1 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.


(5) Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, must be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, must be used simultaneously with each method.


(6) All pollutant concentrations must be adjusted to 7-percent oxygen using Equation 1 of this section:


(7) Performance tests must be conducted and data reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures contained in this subpart unless the Administrator does one of the following.


(i) Specifies or approves, in specific cases, the use of a method with minor changes in methodology.


(ii) Approves the use of an equivalent method.


(iii) Approves the use of an alternative method the results of which he has determined to be adequate for indicating whether a specific source is in compliance.


(iv) Waives the requirement for performance tests because you have demonstrated by other means to the Administrator's satisfaction that the affected SSI unit is in compliance with the standard.


(v) Approves shorter sampling times and smaller sample volumes when necessitated by process variables or other factors. Nothing in this paragraph (a)(7) is construed to abrogate the Administrator's authority to require testing under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.


(8) You must provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of any performance test, except as specified under other subparts, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days' notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, you must notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.


(9) You must provide, or cause to be provided, performance testing facilities as follows:


(i) Sampling ports adequate for the test methods applicable to the SSI unit, as follows:


(A) Constructing the air pollution control system such that volumetric flow rates and pollutant emission rates can be accurately determined by applicable test methods and procedures.


(B) Providing a stack or duct free of cyclonic flow during performance tests, as demonstrated by applicable test methods and procedures.


(ii) Safe sampling platform(s).


(iii) Safe access to sampling platform(s).


(iv) Utilities for sampling and testing equipment.


(10) Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each performance test must consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. Each run must be conducted for the time and under the conditions specified in the applicable standard. Compliance with each emission limit must be determined by calculating the arithmetic mean of the three runs. In the event that a sample is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances, beyond your control, compliance may, upon the Administrator's approval, be determined using the arithmetic mean of the results of the two other runs.


(11) During each test run specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must operate your sewage sludge incinerator at a minimum of 85-percent of your maximum permitted capacity.


(b) *Continuous monitor requirements.* You must meet the following requirements, as applicable, when using a continuous monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The option to use a continuous emissions monitoring system for hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium, or lead takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to hydrogen chloride, dioxins/furans, cadmium or lead is published in the _Federal Register._ If you elect to use a continuous emissions monitoring system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(7) of this section. The option to use a continuous automated sampling system for dioxins/furans takes effect on the date a final performance specification for such a continuous automated sampling system is published in the _Federal Register_.


(1) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before starting use of the continuous emissions monitoring system.


(2) You must notify the Administrator 1 month before stopping use of the continuous emissions monitoring system, in which case you must also conduct a performance test within prior to ceasing operation of the system.


(3) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the emissions to the atmosphere in accordance with the following:


(i) Section 60.13 of subpart A of part 60 of this chapter.


(ii) The following performance specifications of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter, as applicable:


(A) For particulate matter, Performance Specification 11 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(B) For hydrogen chloride, Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(C) For carbon monoxide, Performance Specification 4B of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter with spans appropriate to the applicable emission limit.


(D) [Reserved]


(E) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(F) For nitrogen oxides, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(G) For sulfur dioxide, Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(iii) For continuous emissions monitoring systems, the quality assurance procedures (*e.g.,* quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests) of appendix F of part 60 of this chapter specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section. For each pollutant, the span value of the continuous emissions monitoring system is two times the applicable emission limit, expressed as a concentration.


(A) For particulate matter, Procedure 2 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter.


(B) For hydrogen chloride, Procedure 1 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 shall be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of part 60 of this chapter.


(C) For carbon monoxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter.


(D) [Reserved]


(E) For mercury, Procedures 5 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter.


(F) For nitrogen oxides, Procedure 1 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter.


(G) For sulfur dioxide, Procedure 1 in appendix F of part 60 of this chapter.


(iv) If your monitoring system has a malfunction or out-of-control period, you must complete repairs and resume operation of your monitoring system as expeditiously as possible.


(4) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emissions monitoring system using the performance specifications in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, emission data for each regulated pollutant and oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) must be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emissions monitoring systems and the test methods specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section. Relative accuracy testing must be at representative operating conditions while the SSI unit is charging sewage sludge.


(i) For particulate matter, Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, or Method 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used.


(ii) For hydrogen chloride, Method 26 or 26A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used, as specified in Tables 2 and 3 to this subpart.


(iii) For carbon monoxide, Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.


(iv) For dioxins/furans, Method 23 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, shall be used.


(v) For mercury, cadmium and lead, Method 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, shall be used. Alternatively for mercury, either Method 30B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, or ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(vi) For nitrogen oxides, Method 7 or 7E at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, shall be used.


(vii) For sulfur dioxide, Method 6 or 6C at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus] must be used (see paragraph (e) of this section). For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for the inlet of the sulfur dioxide continuous emissions monitoring system should be no greater than 20-percent of the mean value of the method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the method and the continuous emissions monitoring system, whichever is greater.


(viii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide as established in paragraph (b)(5) of this section), Method 3A or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], as applicable, must be used (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(5) You may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7-percent oxygen. If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels must be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section. This relationship may be re-established during subsequent performance tests.


(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, must be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3A or 3B at 50 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or as an alternative ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus], as applicable, must be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor(see paragraph (e) of this section).


(ii) Samples must be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour.


(iii) Each sample must represent a 1-hour average.


(iv) A minimum of three runs must be performed.


(6) You must operate the continuous monitoring system and collect data with the continuous monitoring system as follows:


(i) You must collect data using the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected SSI unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions that occur during periods specified in § 62.15995(a)(7)(i), repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments). Any such periods that you do not collect data using the continuous monitoring system constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.


(ii) You must collect continuous emissions monitoring system data in accordance with § 60.13(e)(2) of this chapter.


(iii) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods must be reported in a deviation report.


(iv) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in § 60.4880(a)(7)(i) of this chapter, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during out-of-control periods must not be included in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. Any such periods that do not coincide with a monitoring system malfunction as defined in § 62.16045, constitute a deviation from the monitoring requirements and must be reported in a deviation report.


(v) You must use all the data collected during all periods except those periods specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iii) and (iv) of this section in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.


(7) If you elect to use a continuous automated sampling system instead of conducting annual performance testing, you must:


(i) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous automated sampling system according to the site-specific monitoring plan developed in § 60.58b(p)(1) through (6), (9), (10), and (q) of this chapter.


(ii) Collect data according to § 60.58b(p)(5) of this chapter and paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(c) *Air pollution control device inspections.* You must conduct air pollution control device inspections that include, at a minimum, the following:


(1) Inspect air pollution control device(s) for proper operation.


(2) Generally observe that the equipment is maintained in good operating condition.


(3) Develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 62.15995. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(i) of this chapter.


(d) *Bypass stack.* Use of the bypass stack at any time that sewage sludge is being charged to the SSI unit is an emissions standards deviation for all pollutants listed in Table 2 or 3 to this subpart. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test invalidates the performance test.


(e) *Incorporation by reference.* These standards are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 272-0167, *http://www.epa.gov*. You may also inspect a copy at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html*.


(1) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990 (Phone: 1-800-843-2763; Web site: *https://www.asme.org/*).


(i) ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses [Part 10, Instruments and Apparatus].


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) ASTM Int'l, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, Post Office Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; or ProQuest, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48106 (Phone: 1-877-909-2786; Web site: *http://www.astm.org/*).


(i) ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) Standard Test Method for Elemental, Oxidized, Particle-Bound and Total Mercury in Flue Gas Generated from Coal-Fired Stationary Sources (Ontario Hydro Method), approved April 1, 2008.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 272-0167, *http://www.epa.gov*.


(i) OAQPS Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997.


(ii) [Reserved]




