# § 495.100   Definitions.

In this subpart unless otherwise indicated—


*Covered professional services* means (as specified in section 1848(k)(3) of the Act) services furnished by an EP for which payment is made under, or is based on, the Medicare physician fee schedule.


*Eligible hospital* means a hospital subject to the prospective payment system specified in § 412.1(a)(1) of this chapter, excluding those hospitals specified in § 412.23 of this chapter, excluding those hospital units specified in § 412.25 of this chapter, and including Puerto Rico eligible hospitals unless otherwise indicated.


*Eligible professional (EP)* means a physician as defined in section 1861(r) of the Act, which includes, with certain limitations, all of the following types of professionals:


(1) A doctor of medicine or osteopathy.


(2) A doctor of dental surgery or medicine.


(3) A doctor of podiatric medicine.


(4) A doctor of optometry.


(5) A chiropractor.


*Geographic health professional shortage area (HPSA)* means a geographic area that is designated by the Secretary under section 332(a)(1)(A) of the PHS Act as of December 31 of the year prior to the payment year as having a shortage of health professionals.


*Puerto Rico eligible hospital* means a subsection (d) Puerto Rico hospital as defined in section 1886(d)(9)(A) of the Social Security Act.


*Qualifying CAH* means a CAH that is a meaningful EHR user for the EHR reporting period applicable to a payment year or payment adjustment year in which a cost reporting period begins.


*Qualifying eligible professional (qualifying EP)* means an EP who is a meaningful EHR user for the EHR reporting period applicable to a payment or payment adjustment year and who is not a hospital-based EP, as determined for that payment or payment adjustment year.


*Qualifying hospital* means an eligible hospital that is a meaningful EHR user for the EHR reporting period applicable to a payment or payment adjustment year.



---

[N] [75 FR 44565, July 28, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 54157, Sept. 4, 2012; 83 FR 41710, Aug. 17, 2018]




