# ยง 430.203   Definitions.

In this subpart, terms are defined as follows:


*Additional performance element* means a dimension or aspect of individual, team, or organizational performance that is not a critical or non-critical element. Such elements are not used in assigning a summary level but, like critical and non-critical elements, are useful for purposes such as communicating performance expectations and serving as the basis for granting awards. Such elements may include, but are not limited to, objectives, goals, program plans, work plans, and other means of expressing expected performance.


*Appraisal* means the process under which performance is reviewed and evaluated.


*Appraisal period* means the established period of time for which performance will be reviewed and a rating of record will be prepared.


*Appraisal program* means the specific procedures and requirements established under the policies and parameters of an agency appraisal system.


*Appraisal system* means a framework of policies and parameters established by an agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 4301(1) for the administration of performance appraisal programs under subchapter I of chapter 43 of title 5, United States Code, and this subpart.


*Critical element* means a work assignment or responsibility of such importance that unacceptable performance on the element would result in a determination that an employee's overall performance is unacceptable. Such elements shall be used to measure performance only at the individual level.


*Non-critical element* means a dimension or aspect of individual, team, or organizational performance, exclusive of a critical element, that is used in assigning a summary level. Such elements may include, but are not limited to, objectives, goals, program plans, work plans, and other means of expressing expected performance.


*Performance* means accomplishment of work assignments or responsibilities.


*Performance appraisal system:* See *Appraisal system.*

*Performance plan* means all of the written, or otherwise recorded, performance elements that set forth expected performance. A plan must include all critical and non-critical elements and their performance standards.


*Performance rating* means the written, or otherwise recorded, appraisal of performance compared to the performance standard(s) for each critical and non-critical element on which there has been an opportunity to perform for the minimum period. A performance rating may include the assignment of a summary level within a pattern (as specified in ยง 430.208(d)).


*Performance standard* means the management-approved expression of the performance threshold(s), requirement(s), or expectation(s) that must be met to be appraised at a particular level of performance. A performance standard may include, but is not limited to, quality, quantity, timeliness, and manner of performance.


*Progress review* means communicating with the employee about performance compared to the performance standards of critical and non-critical elements.


*Rating of record* means the performance rating prepared at the end of an appraisal period for performance of agency-assigned duties over the entire period and the assignment of a summary level within a pattern (as specified in ยง 430.208(d)), or (2) in accordance with ยง 531.404(a)(1) of this chapter. These constitute official ratings of record referenced in this chapter.



---

[N] [60 FR 43943, Aug. 23, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 62503, Nov. 24, 1997]




