# § 891.520   Definitions applicable to 202/8 projects.

The following definitions apply to projects for eligible families receiving assistance under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 in addition to reservations under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (202/8 projects): 


*Adjusted income* as defined in part 5, subpart F of subtitle A of this title.


*Assisted unit* means a dwelling unit eligible for assistance under a HAP contract. 


*Contract rent* means the total amount of rent specified in the HAP contract as payable by HUD and the tenant to the Borrower for an assisted unit. 




*Family (eligible family)* means an elderly or handicapped family that meets the project occupancy requirements approved by HUD and, if the family occupies an assisted unit, meets the requirements described in 24 CFR 5.403. 


*HAP contract (housing assistance payments contract)* means the contract entered into by the Borrower and HUD setting forth the rights and duties of the parties with respect to the project and the payments under the HAP contract. 


*Housing assistance payment* means the payment made by HUD to the Borrower for assisted units as provided in the HAP contract. The payment is the difference between the contract rent and the tenant rent. An additional payment is made to a family occupying an assisted unit when the utility allowance is greater than the total tenant payment. A housing assistance payment, known as a “vacancy payment,” may be made to the Borrower when an assisted unit is vacant, in accordance with the terms of the HAP contract. 


*Project account* means a specifically identified and segregated account for each project that is established in accordance with § 891.570(b) out of the amounts by which the maximum annual commitment exceeds the amount actually paid out under the HAP contract each year. 


*Project occupancy requirements* means that eligible populations to be served under the Section 202 program are qualified individuals or families whose head of household or spouse is elderly, physically handicapped, developmentally disabled, or chronically mentally ill. Projects are designed to meet the special needs of the particular tenant population that the Borrower was selected to serve. Individuals from one eligible group may not be accepted for occupancy in a project designed for a different tenant group. However, a Sponsor can propose to house eligible tenant groups other than the one it was selected to serve, but must apply to the HUD field office for permission to do so, based on a plan that demonstrates that it can adequately serve the proposed tenant group. Upon review and recommendation by the field office, HUD Headquarters will approve or disapprove the request. 


*Rent,* in the case of a unit in a cooperative project, means the carrying charges payable to the cooperative with respect to occupancy of the unit. 


*Tenant rent* means the monthly amount defined in, and determined in accordance with part 5, subpart F of subtitle A of this title. 


*Total tenant payment* means the monthly amount defined in, and determined in accordance with part 5, subpart F of subtitle A of this title.


*Utility allowance* is defined in part 5, subpart F of subtitle A of this title and is determined or approved by HUD. 


*Utility reimbursement* is defined in part 5, subpart F of subtitle A of this title.


*Vacancy payment* means the housing assistance payment made to the Borrower by HUD for a vacant assisted unit if certain conditions are fulfilled, as provided in the HAP contract. The amount of the vacancy payment varies with the length of the vacancy period and is less after the first 60 days of any vacancy. 



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 6225, Jan. 19, 2001; 66 FR 8174, Jan. 30, 2001; 88 FR 9669, Feb. 14, 2023; 88 FR 75233, Nov. 2, 2023]








