# ยง 91.161   Special awareness training required for pilots flying under visual flight rules within a 60-nautical mile radius of the Washington, DC VOR/DME.

(a) *Operations within a 60-nautical mile radius of the Washington, DC VOR/DME under visual flight rules (VFR).* Except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section, no person may serve as a pilot in command or as second in command of an aircraft while flying within a 60-nautical mile radius of the DCA VOR/DME, under VFR, unless that pilot has completed Special Awareness Training and holds a certificate of training completion.


(b) *Special Awareness Training.* The Special Awareness Training consists of information to educate pilots about the procedures for flying in the Washington, DC area and, more generally, in other types of special use airspace. This free training is available on the FAA's Web site. Upon completion of the training, each person will need to print out a copy of the certificate of training completion.


(c) *Inspection of certificate of training completion.* Each person who holds a certificate for completing the Special Awareness Training must present it for inspection upon request from:


(1) An authorized representative of the FAA;


(2) An authorized representative of the National Transportation Safety Board;


(3) Any Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer; or


(4) An authorized representative of the Transportation Security Administration.


(d) *Emergency declared.* The failure to complete the Special Awareness Training course on flying in and around the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area is not a violation of this section if an emergency is declared by the pilot, as described under ยง 91.3(b), or there was a failure of two-way radio communications when operating under IFR as described under ยง 91.185.


(e) *Exceptions.* The requirements of this section do not apply if the flight is being performed in an aircraft of an air ambulance operator certificated to conduct part 135 operations under this chapter, the U.S. Armed Forces, or a law enforcement agency.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2006-25250, 73 FR 46803, Aug. 12, 2008]




