# § 1090.1610   Importation by rail or truck.

(a) An importer that imports fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock by rail or truck must meet the sampling and testing requirements of subpart N of this part by sampling and testing each compartment of the truck or railcar unless they do one of the following:


(1) *Use supplier results.* The importer may rely on test results from the supplier for fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock imported by rail or truck if the importer meets all the following requirements:


(i) The importer obtains documentation of test results from the supplier for each batch of fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock in accordance with the following requirements:


(A) The testing includes measurements for all the fuel parameters specified in § 1090.1310 using the measurement procedures specified in § 1090.1350.


(B) Testing for a given batch occurs after the most recent delivery into the supplier's storage tank and before transferring the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock to the railcar or truck.


(ii) The importer conducts testing to verify test results from each supplier as follows:


(A) Collect a sample at least once every 30 days or every 50 rail or truckloads from a given supplier, whichever is more frequent. Test the sample as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.


(B) Treat importation of each fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock separately, but treat railcars and truckloads together if the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is imported from a given supplier by rail and truck.


(2) *Certify in a storage tank.* The importer may transfer the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock imported by rail or truck into storage tanks that also contain the same product if the importer meets the following requirements:


(i) For gasoline, the importer transfers gasoline into one or more empty tanks or tanks containing PCG that the importer owns.


(A) If the importer transfers gasoline into one or more empty tanks, they must sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, of each tank into which the gasoline was transferred.


(B) If the importer transfers gasoline into one or more tanks containing PCG, they must sample the PCG already in the tank prior to transferring gasoline from the truck or train, test the sulfur content and benzene content, and report this PCG as a negative batch as specified in § 1090.905(c)(3)(i). After transferring the gasoline into the tanks, the importer must sample and test the sulfur content, benzene content, and for summer gasoline, RVP, of each tank into which the gasoline was transferred and report the volume, sulfur content, and benzene content as a positive batch.


(C) Include the PCG in the tank before transferring and the volume and properties after transferring in compliance calculations as specified in § 1090.700(d)(4)(i).


(D) The sample retention requirements in § 1090.1345 apply to the samples taken prior to transferring and those taken after transferring.


(ii) For all other fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock, the importer must sample and test the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock in each tank into which it was transferred. The importer must ensure that all applicable per-gallon standards are met before the fuel, fuel additive, or regulated blendstock is shipped from the tank.


(b) If an importer that elects to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section fails to meet the applicable requirements, they must meet the sampling and testing requirements of subpart N of this part for each compartment of the truck or railcar until EPA determines that the importer has adequately addressed the cause of the failure.




