# § 63.1102   Compliance schedule.

(a) *General requirements.* Affected sources, as defined in § 63.1103(a)(1)(i) for acetyl resins production, § 63.1103(b)(1)(i) for acrylic and modacrylic fiber production, § 63.1103(c)(1)(i) for hydrogen fluoride production, § 63.1103(d)(1)(i) for polycarbonate production, § 63.1103(e)(1)(i) for ethylene production, § 63.1103(f)(1)(i) for carbon black production, § 63.1103(g)(1)(i) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing, or § 63.1103(h)(1)(i) for spandex production shall comply with the appropriate provisions of this subpart and the subparts referenced by this subpart YY according to the schedule in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Affected sources in ethylene production also must comply according to paragraph (c) of this section. Affected sources in cyanide chemicals manufacturing also must comply according to paragraph (d) of this section. Affected sources in carbon black production also must comply according to paragraph (e) of this section. Proposal and effective dates are specified in table 1 to this section and in paragraph (d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources and paragraph (e) for carbon black production affected sources of this section.




(1) *Compliance dates for new and reconstructed sources.* (i) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after the proposal date, and that has an initial startup before the effective date of standards for an affected source, shall comply with this subpart no later than the applicable effective date in Table 1 to § 63.1102 of this section. 


(ii) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that has an initial startup after the applicable effective date in Table 1 to § 63.1102 of this section shall comply with this subpart upon startup of the source. 


(iii) The owner or operator of an affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after the proposal date, but before the effective date in Table 1 to this section, shall comply with this subpart no later than the date 3 years after the effective date if the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) (A) and (B) of this section are met. 


(A) The promulgated standards are more stringent than the proposed standards. 


(B) The owner or operator complies with this subpart as proposed during the 3-year period immediately after the effective date of standards for the affected source. 


(2) *Compliance dates for existing sources.* (i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source shall comply with the requirements of this subpart within 3 years after the effective date of standards for the affected source. 


(ii) The owner or operator of an area source that increases its emissions of (or its potential to emit) HAP such that the source becomes a major source shall be subject to the relevant standards for existing sources under this subpart. Such sources shall comply with the relevant standards within 3 years of becoming a major source. 


(b) All acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3) upon initial startup or October 9, 2017, whichever is later, and the equipment leaks requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU upon initial startup or October 8, 2015, whichever is later. New acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3) upon initial startup or by October 8, 2014, whichever is later.


(c) All ethylene production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before October 9, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section upon initial startup or July 6, 2023, whichever is later. All ethylene production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after October 9, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section upon initial startup, or July 6, 2020, whichever is later.


(1) Overlap requirements specified in § 63.1100(g)(4)(iii) and (7), if applicable.


(2) The storage vessel requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (c)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and the degassing requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(10).


(3) The ethylene process vent requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e).


(4) The transfer rack requirements specified in § 63.1105(a)(5).


(5) The equipment requirements specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e) and § 63.1107(h).


(6) The bypass line requirements specified in paragraph (i) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and § 63.1103(e)(6).


(7) The decoking requirements for ethylene cracking furnaces specified in paragraph (j) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and § 63.1103(e)(7) and (8).


(8) The flare requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(4).


(9) The maintenance vent requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(5).


(10) The requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(9).


(11) The requirements in § 63.1108(a)(4), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).


(12) The recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1109(e) through (i).


(13) The reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10), (d)(1)(iv) and (v), and (e)(4) through (8).




(d) *Cyanide chemicals manufacturing.* (1) If applicable, all cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section upon initial startup or November 20, 2022, whichever is later. If applicable, all cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.


(i) Requirements specified in Table 9 to § 63.1103(g), table entry (f)(1)(ii), for new cyanide chemicals manufacturing process units that generate process wastewater.


(ii) Requirements specified in Table 9 to § 63.1103(g), table entry (g), for existing cyanide chemicals manufacturing process units that generate process wastewater.


(2) All cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup or May 18, 2022, whichever is later. All cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.


(i) The exceptions specified in § 63.1103(g)(6) related to 40 part 63, subparts SS, TT, and UU startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.


(ii) The compliance requirements specified in § 63.1108(a)(4), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).


(iii) The electronic reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10).




(e) *Carbon black production.* (1) If applicable, all carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup or November 20, 2022, whichever is later. If applicable, all carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.


(i) The process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv).


(ii) The performance test frequency requirements specified in § 63.1108(b)(4)(ii).


(iii) The boiler and process heater tune up requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iii).


(2) All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section upon initial startup or May 18, 2022, whichever is later. All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.


(i) The exceptions specified in § 63.1103(f)(4) related to 40 part 63, subpart SS, startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.


(ii) The exception specified in § 63.1103(f)(5) related to the requirement that a closed vent system route the collected vapors to a control device when demonstrating compliance.


(iii) The compliance requirements specified in § 63.1108(a)(4), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).


(iv) The electronic reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10).


(3) All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements specified in line entry (b) in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f) on or before November 19, 2024. All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements specified in line entries (b) and (c) in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f) upon initial startup or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.



---

[N] [67 FR 46280, July 12, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 60922, Oct. 8, 2014; 85 FR 40425, July 6, 2020; 86 FR 66122, Nov. 19, 2021; 89 FR 23864, Apr. 4, 2024]




