# ยง 27.210   Submissions schedule.

(a) *Initial submission.* The time frames in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section also apply to covered facilities that submit an Alternative Security Program pursuant to ยง 27.235.


(1) *Top-Screen.* Facilities shall complete and submit a Top-Screen within the following time frames:


(i) Unless otherwise notified, within 60 calendar days of November 20, 2007 for facilities that possess any of the chemicals listed in appendix A at or above the STQ for any applicable Security Issue, or within 60 calendar days for facilities that come into possession of any of the chemicals listed in appendix A at or above the STQ for any applicable Security Issue; or


(ii) Within the time frame provided in any written notification from the Department or specified in any subsequent _Federal Register_ notice.


(2) *Security Vulnerability Assessment.* Unless otherwise notified, a covered facility must complete and submit a Security Vulnerability Assessment within 90 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent _Federal Register_ notice.


(3) *Site Security Plan.* Unless otherwise notified, a covered facility must complete and submit a Site Security Plan within 120 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent _Federal Register_ notice.


(b) *Resubmission schedule for covered facilities.* The timeframes in this subsection also apply to covered facilities who submit an Alternative Security Program pursuant to ยง 27.235.


(1) *Top-Screen.* Unless otherwise notified:


(i) Tier 1 and Tier 2 covered facilities must complete and submit a new Top-Screen no less than two years, and no more than two years and 60 calendar days, from the date of the Department's approval of the facility's most recent Site Security Plan.


(ii) Tier 3 and Tier 4 covered facilities must routinely complete and submit a Top-Screen no less than three years, and no more than three years and 60 calendar days, from the date of the Department's approval of the facility's most recent Site Security Plan.


(2) *Security Vulnerability Assessment.* Unless otherwise notified and following a Top-Screen resubmission pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a covered facility must complete and submit a new Security Vulnerability Assessment within 90 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent _Federal Register_ notice.


(3) *Site Security Plan.* Unless otherwise notified and following a Security Vulnerability Assessment resubmission pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a covered facility must complete and submit a new Site Security Plan within 120 calendar days of written notification from the Department or within the time frame specified in any subsequent _Federal Register_ notice.


(c) The Executive Assistant Director retains the authority to modify the schedule in this part as needed. The Executive Assistant Director may shorten or extend these time periods based on the operations at the facility, the nature of the covered facility's vulnerabilities, the level and immediacy of security risk, or for other reasons. If the Department alters the time periods for a specific facility, the Department will do so in written notice to the facility.


(d) If a covered facility makes material modifications to its operations or site, the covered facility must complete and submit a revised Top-Screen to the Department within 60 days of the material modification. In accordance with the resubmission requirements in ยง 27.210(b)(2) and (3), the Department will notify the covered facility as to whether the covered facility must submit a revised Security Vulnerability Assessment, Site Security Plan, or both. 



---

[N] [72 FR 17729, Apr. 9, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 65420, Nov. 20, 2007; 86 FR 41891, Aug. 4, 2021]




