# § 37.125   ADA paratransit eligibility: Process.

Each public entity required to provide complementary paratransit service by § 37.121 of this part shall establish a process for determining ADA paratransit eligibility.


(a) The process shall strictly limit ADA paratransit eligibility to individuals specified in § 37.123 of this part.


(b) All information about the process, materials necessary to apply for eligibility, and notices and determinations concerning eligibility shall be made available in accessible formats, upon request.


(c) If, by a date 21 days following the submission of a complete application, the entity has not made a determination of eligibility, the applicant shall be treated as eligible and provided service until and unless the entity denies the application.


(d) The entity's determination concerning eligibility shall be in writing. If the determination is that the individual is ineligible, the determination shall state the reasons for the finding.


(e) The public entity shall provide documentation to each eligible individual stating that he or she is “ADA Paratransit Eligible.” The documentation shall include the name of the eligible individual, the name of the transit provider, the telephone number of the entity's paratransit coordinator, an expiration date for eligibility, and any conditions or limitations on the individual's eligibility including the use of a personal care attendant.


(f) The entity may require recertification of the eligibility of ADA paratransit eligible individuals at reasonable intervals.


(g) The entity shall establish an administrative appeal process through which individuals who are denied eligibility can obtain review of the denial.


(1) The entity may require that an appeal be filed within 60 days of the denial of an individual's application.


(2) The process shall include an opportunity to be heard and to present information and arguments, separation of functions (*i.e.*, a decision by a person not involved with the initial decision to deny eligibility), and written notification of the decision, and the reasons for it.


(3) The entity is not required to provide paratransit service to the individual pending the determination on appeal. However, if the entity has not made a decision within 30 days of the completion of the appeal process, the entity shall provide paratransit service from that time until and unless a decision to deny the appeal is issued.


(h) The entity may establish an administrative process to suspend, for a reasonable period of time, the provision of complementary paratransit service to ADA eligible individuals who establish a pattern or practice of missing scheduled trips.


(1) Trips missed by the individual for reasons beyond his or her control (including, but not limited to, trips which are missed due to operator error) shall not be a basis for determining that such a pattern or practice exists.


(2) Before suspending service, the entity shall take the following steps:


(i) Notify the individual in writing that the entity proposes to suspend service, citing with specificity the basis of the proposed suspension and setting forth the proposed sanction.


(ii) Provide the individual an opportunity to be heard and to present information and arguments;


(iii) Provide the individual with written notification of the decision and the reasons for it.


(3) The appeals process of paragraph (g) of this section is available to an individual on whom sanctions have been imposed under this paragraph. The sanction is stayed pending the outcome of the appeal.


(i) In applications for ADA paratransit eligibility, the entity may require the applicant to indicate whether or not he or she travels with a personal care attendant.




