# § 5f.163-1   Denial of interest deduction on certain obligations issued after December 31, 1982, unless issued in registered form.

(a) *Denial of deduction generally.* Interest paid or accrued on a registration-required obligation (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) shall not be allowed as a deduction under section 163 or any other provision of law unless such obligation is issued in registered form (as defined in § 5f.103-1(c)).


(b) *Registration-required obligation.* For purposes of this section, the term “registration-required obligation” means any obligation except any one of the following:


(1) An obligation issued by a natural person.


(2) An obligation not of a type offered to the public. The determination as to whether an obligation is not of a type offered to the public shall be based on whether similar obligations are in fact publicly offered or traded.


(3) An obligation that has a maturity at the date of issue of not more than 1 year.


(4) An obligation issued before January 1, 1983. An obligation first issued before January 1, 1983, shall not be considered to have been issued on or after such date merely as a result of the existence of a right on the part of the holder of such obligation to convert such obligation from registered form into bearer form, or as a result of the exercise of such a right.


(5) An obligation described in subparagraph (1) of paragraph (c) (relating to certain obligations issued to foreign persons).


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Effective date.* The provisions of this section shall apply to obligations issued after December 31, 1982, unless issued on an exercise of a warrant for the conversion of a convertible obligation if such warrant or obligation was offered or sold outside the United States without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 and was issued before August 10, 1982.


(e) *Obligations first issued after December 31, 1982, where the right exists for the holder to convert such obligation from registered form into bearer form.* [Reserved]


(f) *Examples.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7852, 47 FR 51362, Nov. 15, 1982, as amended by T.D. 7965, 49 FR 33235, Aug. 22, 1984]






