# § 35.10b   Electric Quarterly Reports.

Each public utility as well as each non-public utility with more than a *de minimis* market presence shall file an updated Electric Quarterly Report with the Commission covering all services it provides pursuant to this part, for each of the four calendar quarters of each year, in accordance with the following schedule: for the period from January 1 through March 31, file by April 30; for the period from April 1 through June 30, file by July 31; for the period July 1 through September 30, file by October 31; and for the period October 1 through December 31, file by January 31. Electric Quarterly Reports must be prepared in conformance with the Commission's guidance posted on the FERC Web site (*http://www.ferc.gov*).


(a) For purposes of this section, the term “non-public utility” means any market participant that is exempted from the Commission's jurisdiction under 16 U.S.C. 824(f).


The term does not include an entity that engages in purchases or sales of wholesale electric energy or transmission services within the Electric Reliability Council of Texas or any entity that engages solely in sales of wholesale electric energy or transmission services in the states of Alaska or Hawaii.


(b) For purposes of this section, the term “*de minimis* market presence” means any non-public utility that makes 4,000,000 megawatt hours or less of annual wholesale sales, based on the average annual sales for resale over the preceding three years as published by the Energy Information Administration's Form 861.


(c) For purposes of this section, the following wholesale sales made by a non-public utility with more than a *de minimis* market presence are excluded from the EQR filing requirement:


(1) Sales by a non-public utility, such as a cooperative or joint action agency, to its members; and


(2) Sales by a non-public utility under a long-term, cost-based agreement required to be made to certain customers under Federal or state statute.



---

[N] [Order 768, 77 FR 61924, Oct. 11, 2012, as amended by Order 770, 77 FR 71299, Nov. 30, 2012]




