# ยง 425.218   Termination of the participation agreement by CMS.

(a) *General.* CMS may terminate the participation agreement with an ACO when an ACO, the ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers or other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to ACO activities fail to comply with any of the requirements of the Shared Savings Program under this part.


(b) *Grounds for termination by CMS.* CMS may terminate the participation agreement for reasons including, but not limited to the following:


(1) Non-compliance with eligibility and other requirements described in this part.


(2) The imposition of sanctions or other actions taken against the ACO by an accrediting organization, State, Federal or local government agency leading to inability of the ACO to comply with the requirements under this part.


(3) Violations of any applicable laws, rules, or regulations that are relevant to ACO operations, including, but not limited to, the laws specified at ยง 425.208(b).


(4) Failure to comply with CMS requests for documentation or other information by the deadline specified by CMS.


(5) Submitting false or fraudulent data or information.


(c) CMS may immediately terminate a participation agreement without taking any of the pre-termination actions set forth in ยง 425.216.


(d) *Notice of termination by CMS.* CMS notifies an ACO in writing of its decision to terminate the participation agreement.



---

[N] [76 FR 67973, Nov. 2, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 32839, June 9, 2015; 89 FR 54717, July 1, 2024]






