# § 1033.601   General compliance provisions.

Locomotive manufacturer/remanufacturers, as well as owners and operators of locomotives subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the requirements and prohibitions in 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 apply for locomotives as specified in that part, except as otherwise specified in this section.


(a) *Meaning of terms.* When used in 40 CFR part 1068, apply meanings for specific terms as follows:


(1) “Manufacturer” means manufacturer and/or remanufacturer.


(2) “Date of manufacture” means date of original manufacture for freshly manufactured locomotives and the date on which a remanufacture is completed for remanufactured engines.


(b) *Engine rebuilding.* The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.120 do not apply when remanufacturing locomotives under a certificate of conformity issued under this part.


(c) *Exemptions.* (1) The exemption provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240 (i.e., exemptions for replacement engines) do not apply for domestic or imported locomotives. (Note: You may introduce into commerce freshly manufactured replacement engines under this part, provided the locomotives into which they are installed are covered by a certificate of conformity.) 


(2) The exemption provisions of 40 CFR 1068.250 and 1068.255 (i.e., exemptions for hardship relief) do not apply for domestic or imported locomotives. See § 1033.620 for provisions related to hardship relief.


(3) The exemption provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 (i.e., exemptions for delegated assembly) do not apply for domestic or imported locomotives, except as specified in § 1033.630.


(4) The provisions for importing engines and equipment under the identical configuration exemption of 40 CFR 1068.315(h) do not apply for locomotives.


(5) The provisions for importing engines and equipment under the ancient engine exemption of 40 CFR 1068.315(i) do not apply for locomotives.


(d) *SEAs, defect reporting, and recall.* The provisions of 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E (i.e., SEA provisions) do not apply for locomotives. Except as noted in this paragraph (d), the provisions of 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, apply to certificate holders for locomotives as specified for manufacturers in that part.


(1) When there are multiple persons meeting the definition of manufacturer or remanufacturer, each person meeting the definition of manufacturer or remanufacturer must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, as needed so that the certificate holder can fulfill its obligations under those subparts.


(2) The defect investigation requirements of 40 CFR 1068.501(a)(5), (b)(1) and (b)(2) do not apply for locomotives. Instead, use good engineering judgment to investigate emission-related defects consistent with normal locomotive industry practice for investigating defects. You are not required to track parts shipments as indicators of possible defects.


(e) *Introduction into commerce.* The placement of a new locomotive or new locomotive engine back into service following remanufacturing is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1), unless it has a valid certificate of conformity for its model year and the required label. 


(f) *Multi-fuel locomotives.* Subpart C of this part describes how to test and certify dual-fuel and flexible-fuel locomotives. Some multi-fuel locomotives may not fit either of those defined terms. For such locomotives, we will determine whether it is most appropriate to treat them as single-fuel locomotives, dual-fuel locomotives, or flexible-fuel locomotives based on the range of possible and expected fuel mixtures. For example, a locomotive might burn natural gas but initiate combustion with a pilot injection of diesel fuel. If the locomotive is designed to operate with a single fueling algorithm (*i.e.,* fueling rates are fixed at a given engine speed and load condition), we would generally treat it as a single-fuel locomotive, In this context, the combination of diesel fuel and natural gas would be its own fuel type. If the locomotive is designed to also operate on diesel fuel alone, we would generally treat it as a dual-fuel locomotive. If the locomotive is designed to operate on varying mixtures of the two fuels, we would generally treat it as a flexible-fuel locomotive. To the extent that requirements vary for the different fuels or fuel mixtures, we may apply the more stringent requirements.



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59190, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 22986, Apr. 30, 2010; 81 FR 74009, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34376, June 29, 2021]




