# § 407.25   Beginning of entitlement: Individual enrollment.

The following apply whether an individual is self-enrolled or automatically enrolled in SMI: 








(a) *Enrollment during initial enrollment period.* For individuals who first meet the eligibility requirements of § 407.10 in a month beginning—


(1) Before January 1, 2023, the following entitlement dates apply:


(i) If an individual enrolls during the first 3 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the first month of eligibility.


(ii) If an individual enrolls during the fourth month of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the following month.


(iii) If an individual enrolls during the fifth month of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the second month after the month of enrollment.


(iv) If an individual enrolls in either of the last 2 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the third month after the month of enrollment.


(v) For example, if an individual first meets the eligibility requirements for enrollment in April, then the individual's initial enrollment period is January through July. The month in which the individual enrolls determines the month that begins the period of entitlement, as follows:


(2) On or after January 1, 2023, the following entitlement dates apply:


(i) If an individual enrolls during the first 3 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the first month of eligibility.


(ii) If an individual enrolls during the last 4 months of the initial enrollment period, entitlement begins with the month following the month in which they enroll.






(b) *Enrollment on reenrollment during general enrollment period.* (1) If an individual enrolls or reenrolls during a general enrollment period before April 1, 1981, or after September 30, 1981 and before January 1, 2023, entitlement begins on July 1 of that calendar year. 


(2) If an individual enrolled or reenrolled during the general enrollment period between April 1, 1981 and September 20, 1981, entitlement began with the third month after the month in which the enrollment request was filed. 


(3) If an individual enrolls or reenrolls during a general enrollment period on or after January 1, 2023, entitlement begins on the first day of the month following the month in which they enroll.




(c) *Enrollment or reenrollment during a SEP.* The rules set forth in § 406.24(d) of this chapter apply. 



---

[N] [53 FR 47204, Nov. 22, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 40347, Aug. 2, 1996; 87 FR 66506, Nov. 3, 2022; 87 FR 80469, Dec. 30, 2022]




