# ยง 72.73   Residency requirements.

(a) *Background.* UPARR policy prohibits discrimination on the basis of residence (refer to ยง 72.65(b)) including preferential reservation or membership systems on properties improved with UPARR assistance. This prohibition applies to both regularly scheduled and special events. The general provisions regarding non-discrimination at sites assisted under Interior programs and, thereby, all other recreation facilities managed by the recipient, are covered in 43 CFR part 17 which implements the provisions of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 for the Department. 


(b) *Policy.* There shall be no discrimination for UPARR assisted programs or services on the basis of residence, except in reasonable fee differentials. Post-completion compliance responsibilities of the recipient should continue to ensure that discrimination on the basis of residency is not occurring. 


(c) *Fees.* For parks or recreation properties or programs funded with UPARR assistance, fees charged to nonresidents cannot exceed twice that charged to residents. Where there is no charge for residents but a fee is charged to nonresidents, the nonresident fees cannot exceed fees charged at comparable State or local public facilities having fee systems. These fee provisions apply only to the approved 1010 areas applicable to the recipient. Reservation, membership, or annual permit systems available to residents must also be available to nonresidents and the period of availability must be the same for both residents and nonresidents. Recipients are prohibited from providing residents the option of purchasing annual or daily permits while at the same time restricting nonresidents to the purchase of annual permits only. 




