# 452.236-70   Emergency Response, Fire Suppression, and Liability.

As prescribed in AGAR 436.570, the following clause shall be used in Forest Service Integrated Resource Service Contracts (IRSCs), and is optional for non-IRSCs:


(a) *Contractor's Responsibility for Responding to Emergencies.* When directed by the contracting officer, the Contractor shall allow the Government to temporarily use employees and equipment from the work site for emergency work (anticipated to be restricted to firefighting). This is considered to be within the general scope of the contract. An equitable adjustment for the temporary use of employees and equipment will be made under the CHANGES clause, FAR 52.243-4.


(b) *Contractor's Responsibility for Fire Fighting.* The Contractor, under the provisions of FAR 52.236-9, Protection of Existing Vegetation, Structures, Equipment, Utilities, and Improvements, shall immediately extinguish all fires on the work site other than those fires in use as a part of the work. The Contractor may be held liable for all damages and for all costs incurred by the Government for labor, subsistence, equipment, supplies, and transportation deemed necessary to control or suppress a fire set or caused by the Contractor or the Contractor's agents, subcontractors, or employees subject to the fire classifications listed in subsection (c).


(c) *Fire Suppression Costs.* The Contractor's obligations for cost of fire suppression vary according to three classifications of fires as follows:


(1) *Operations Fire.* An “operations fire” is a fire caused by the Contractor's operations other than a negligent fire. The Contractor agrees to reimburse the Forest Service for such cost for each operations fire, subject to a maximum dollar amount of [Contracting Officer insert amount]. The cost of the Contractor's actions, supplies, and equipment expended or used on suppressing any such fire, or otherwise provided at the request of Forest Service, shall be credited toward such maximum. If the Contractor's actual cost exceeds the contractor's maximum obligation stated above, the Forest Service shall reimburse the contractor for the excess.


(2) *Negligent Fire.* A “negligent fire” is a fire caused by the negligence or fault of the Contractor's operations including, but not limited to, one caused by smoking by persons engaged in the Contractor's operations during the course of their employment, or during rest or lunch periods; or if the Contractor's failure to comply with requirements under this contract results in a fire starting or permits a fire to spread. Damages and the cost of suppressing negligent fires shall be borne by the Contractor.


(3) *Other Fires on Contract Area.* The Forest Service shall pay the Contractor, at firefighting rates common in the area or at prior agreed rates, for equipment or personnel furnished by the Contractor at the request of the Forest Service, on any fire on the contract area other than an operations fire or a negligent fire.


(d) *Contractor's Responsibility for Notification in Case of Fire.* The Contractor shall immediately notify the Government of any fires sighted on or in the vicinity of the work site.


(e) *Performance by the Contractor.* Where the Contractor's employees, agents, contractors, subcontractors, or their employees or agents perform the Contractor's operations in connection with fire responsibilities, the Contractor's obligations shall be the same as if performance was by the Contractor.


(f) *State Law.* The Contractor shall not be relieved by the terms of this contract of any liability to the United States for fire suppression costs recovered in an action based on State law, except for such costs resulting from operations fires. Amounts due to the Contractor for firefighting expenditures on operations fires shall not be withheld pending settlement of any such claim or action based on State law.


