# § 3560.104   Fair housing.

(a) *General.* Borrowers must comply with the requirements of the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, and this section to meet their fair housing responsibilities.


(b) *Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan.* (1) Borrowers with housing projects that have five or more rental units must prepare and maintain an Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan (AFHMP) as defined in 24 CFR part 200, subpart M.

 

(2) Loan or grant applicants must submit an AFHMP for Agency approval prior to loan closing or grant approval. Plans must be updated by the borrower whenever components of the plan change.


(3) Borrowers must post the approved AFHMP for public inspection at the housing project site, rental office, or at any other location where tenant applications for the project are received.


(4) When developing the plan, the following items must be considered by the borrower:


(i) *Direction of marketing activities.* The plan should be designed to attract applications for occupancy from all potentially eligible groups of people in the housing marketing area, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, age, familial status, national origin, or disability. The plan must show which efforts will be made to reach very low-income or low-income groups who would least likely be expected to apply without special outreach efforts.


(ii) *Marketing program.* The applicant or borrower should determine which methods of marketing such as radio, newspaper, TV, signs, etc., are best suited to reach those very low-income or low-income groups who are in the market area but who are least likely to apply for occupancy. Marketing must not rely on “word of mouth” advertising.


(A) *Advertising.* (*1*) *Frequency.* The borrower should advertise availability of housing units in advance of their availability to allow time to receive and process applications. Advertising by newsprint or electronic media must occur at least annually to promote project visibility, even if there is an adequate waiting list.


(*2*) *Posters, brochures, etc.* Any radio, TV or newspaper advertisement, pamphlets, or brochures used must identify that the complex is operated on an equal housing opportunity basis. This must be done through the use of the equal housing opportunity statement, slogan, or logo type. Copies of the proposed material must be sent when requesting approval of the plan.


(B) *Community contacts.* Community leaders and special interest groups such as community, public interest, religious organizations, and organizations for the disabled must be contacted. Owners and managers of projects with fully accessible apartments must adopt suitable means to ensure that information regarding the availability of accessible units reaches eligible persons with disabilities. In addition, owners and managers of elderly housing must ensure that information regarding eligibility reaches people who are less than 62 years old but who are eligible because they are disabled. Appropriate contacts are with physical rehabilitation centers, hospitals, workshops for the disabled, commissions on aging, and veterans organizations.


(C) *Rental staff.* All staff persons responsible for renting the units must have had training provided on Federal, state, and local fair housing laws and regulations and in the requirements of fair housing marketing and in those actions necessary to carry out the marketing plan. Copies of instructions to the staff regarding fair housing and a summary of the training they have received must be attached to the plan when requesting approval.


(iii) *Marketing records.* Records must be maintained by the borrower reflecting efforts to fulfill the plan. These records will be reviewed by the Agency during civil rights compliance reviews. Plans will be updated as needed.


(c) *Accommodations and communication.* The borrower must take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, tenants, and members of the public with disabilities. At a minimum, the following steps must be taken:


(1) Furnish appropriate auxiliary aids (electronic, mechanical, or personal assistance) where necessary, to afford an individual with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in and enjoy the benefits of Agency financed housing.


(i) In determining what auxiliary aids are necessary, the borrower must give primary consideration to the requests of individuals with disabilities.


(ii) The borrower is not required to provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.


(2) Where a borrower communicates with applicants and tenants by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons or equally effective communication systems must be available for use.


(3) The borrower must implement procedures to ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information concerning the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities in the housing project and community.


(4) The borrower is required to provide reasonable accommodations at the project's expense unless doing so would result in undue financial or administrative burden on the project. Examples of reasonable accommodations may include such items as the installation of grab bars, ramps, and roll-in showers. Reasonable accommodations may also include the modification of rules or policies such as permitting a disabled tenant to have a two-bedroom unit to accommodate a resident assistant or to permit a disabled tenant to have a companion animal. The decision whether the requested accommodation is reasonable or unreasonable or whether to provide the accommodation would cause an undue financial or administrative burden lies with the borrower and would be for the borrower to defend should a complaint subsequently be filed. Borrowers may wish to consult with their legal counsel prior to denying a request. If the borrower takes the position that providing an accommodation would cause an undue financial or administrative burden, the borrower must permit the tenant to make reasonable modifications at the tenant's expense. Requests for reasonable accommodations must be handled in accordance with the management plan.


(d) *Housing sign requirements.* (1) A permanent sign identifying the housing project is required for all housing projects approved on or after September 13, 1977. Permanent signs are recommended for all housing projects approved prior to September 13, 1977. The sign must meet the following requirements:


(i) Must be located at the primary site entrance and be readable and recognizable from the roadside;


(ii) Must be located near the site manager's office when the housing project has multiple sites and portable signs must be placed where vacancies exist at other site locations of a “scattered site” housing project;


(iii) May be of any shape;


(iv) Must be not less than 16 square feet of area for housing projects with 8 or more rental units (smaller housing projects may have smaller signs);


(v) Must be made of durable material including its supports;


(vi) Must include the housing project name;


(vii) Must show rental contact information including but not limited to the office location of the housing project and a telephone number where applicant inquiries may be made;


(viii) Must show either the equal housing opportunity logotype (the house and equal sign, with the words equal housing opportunity underneath the house); the equal housing opportunity slogan “equal housing opportunity”; or the equal housing opportunity statement, “We are pledged to the letter and spirit of U.S. policy for the achievement of equal housing opportunity throughout the nation. We encourage and support an affirmative advertising and marketing program in which there are no barriers to obtaining housing because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.” If the logotype is used, the size of the logo must be no less than 5 percent of the total size of the project sign.


(ix) May display the Agency or Department logotype; and


(x) Must comply with state and local codes.


(2) Accessible parking spaces must be reserved for individuals with disabilities by a sign showing the international symbol of accessibility. The sign must be mounted on a post at a height that is readily visible from an occupied vehicle. In snow areas, the sign must be visible above piled snow. If there is an office, the designated parking space must be van accessible.


(3) When the continuous unobstructed ingress or egress disabled accessibility route to a primary building entrance is other than the usual or obvious route, the alternate route for disabled accessibility must be clearly marked with international accessibility symbols and directional signs to aid a disabled person's ingress or egress to the building, through an accessible entrance, and to the accessible common use and public and living areas. 







---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 87 FR 11281, Mar. 1, 2022]




