# § 163.111   Chocolate liquor.

(a) *Description.* (1) Chocolate liquor is the solid or semiplastic food prepared by finely grinding cacao nibs. The fat content of the food may be adjusted by adding one or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the cacao nibs. Chocolate liquor contains not less than 50 percent nor more than 60 percent by weight of cacao fat as determined by the method prescribed in § 163.5(b).


(2) Optional alkali ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be used as such in the preparation of chocolate liquor under the conditions and limitations specified in § 163.110(b)(1).


(3) Optional neutralizing agents specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be used as such in the preparation of the chocolate liquor under the conditions and limitations specified in § 163.110(b)(2).


(4) Chocolate liquor may be spiced, flavored, or seasoned with one or more of the ingredients listed in paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), and (b)(6) of this section.


(b) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) Cacao fat and cocoas (breakfast cocoa, cocoa, or lowfat cocoa);


(2) Alkali ingredients. Ammonium, potassium, or sodium bicarbonate, carbonate, or hydroxide, or magnesium carbonate or oxide, added as such, or in aqueous solution;


(3) Neutralizing agents. Phosphoric acid, citric acid, and *L*-tartaric acid, added as such, or in aqueous solution;


(4) Spices, natural and artificial flavorings, ground whole nut meats, ground coffee, dried malted cereal extract, and other seasonings that do not either singly or in combination impart a flavor that imitates the flavor of chocolate, milk, or butter;


(5) Butter or milkfat; or


(6) Salt.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “chocolate liquor”, “chocolate”, “unsweetened chocolate”, “bitter chocolate”, “baking chocolate”, “cooking chocolate”, “chocolate coating”, or “unsweetened chocolate coating”.


(1) When any optional alkali ingredient specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs and cocoas from which the chocolate liquor was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement “Processed with alkali” or “Processed with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific alkali ingredient used in the food.


(2) When any optional neutralizing agent specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is used, including those used in the preparation of the cacao nibs and cocoas from which the chocolate liquor was prepared, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the statement “Processed with neutralizing agent” or “Processed with ______”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the specific neutralizing ingredient used in the food.


(3) When one or more spices, flavorings, or seasonings specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) of this section are used in the chocolate liquor, the label shall bear an appropriate statement, e.g., “Spice added”, “Flavored with ______”, “Seasoned with ______”, or “With ______ added”, the blank being filled in with the common or usual name of the spice, flavoring, or seasoning used, in accordance with § 101.22 of this chapter.


(4) When two or more of the statements set forth in this paragraph are required, such statements may be combined in a manner that is appropriate, but not misleading.


(5) Whenever the name of the food appears on the label so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase, the statements prescribed in this section, showing optional ingredients used, shall precede or follow the name without intervening printed or graphic matter.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter. 




