# § 63.1516   Reports.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Excess emissions/summary report.* The owner or operator of a major or area source must submit semiannual reports according to the requirements in § 63.10(e)(3). Except, the owner or operator must submit the semiannual reports within 60 days after the end of each 6-month period instead of within 30 days after the calendar half as specified in § 63.10(e)(3)(v). When no deviations of parameters have occurred, the owner or operator must submit a report stating that no excess emissions occurred during the reporting period.


(1) A report must be submitted if any of these conditions occur during a 6-month reporting period: 


(i) The corrective action specified in the OM&M plan for a bag leak detection system alarm was not initiated within 1 hour. 


(ii) The corrective action specified in the OM&M plan for a continuous opacity monitoring deviation was not initiated within 1 hour. 


(iii) The corrective action specified in the OM&M plan for visible emissions from an aluminum scrap shredder was not initiated within 1 hour. 


(iv) An excursion of a compliant process or operating parameter value or range (*e.g.,* lime injection rate or screw feeder setting, total reactive chlorine flux injection rate, afterburner operating temperature, fabric filter inlet temperature, definition of acceptable scrap, or other approved operating parameter). 


(v) [Reserved]


(vi) An affected source (including an emission unit in a secondary aluminum processing unit) was not operated according to the requirements of this subpart. 


(vii) A deviation from the 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emission limit for a secondary aluminum processing unit. 


(2) Each report must include each of these certifications, as applicable: 


(i) For each thermal chip dryer: “Only unpainted aluminum chips were used as feedstock in any thermal chip dryer during this reporting period.” 


(ii) For each dross-only furnace: “Only dross and salt flux were used as the charge materials in any dross-only furnace during this reporting period.”


(iii) For each sidewell group 1 furnace with add-on air pollution control devices: “Each furnace was operated such that the level of molten metal remained above the top of the passage between the sidewell and hearth during reactive fluxing, and reactive flux, except for cover flux, was added only to the sidewell or to a furnace hearth equipped with an add-on air pollution control device for PM, HCl, and D/F emissions during this reporting period.” 


(iv) For each group 1 melting/holding furnace without add-on air pollution control devices and using pollution prevention measures that processes only clean charge material: “Each group 1 furnace without add-on air pollution control devices subject to emission limits in § 63.1505(i)(2) processed only clean charge during this reporting period.” 


(v) For each group 2 furnace: “Only clean charge materials were processed in any group 2 furnace during this reporting period, and no fluxing was performed or all fluxing performed was conducted using only nonreactive, non-HAP-containing/non-HAP-generating fluxing gases or agents, except for cover fluxes, during this reporting period.” 


(vi) For each in-line fluxer using no reactive flux: “Only nonreactive, non-HAP-containing, non-HAP-generating flux gases, agents, or materials were used at any time during this reporting period.” 


(vii) For each affected source choosing to demonstrate compliance during periods of startup and shutdown in accordance with § 63.1513(f)(1): “During each startup and shutdown, no flux and no feed/charge were added to the emission unit, and electricity, propane or natural gas were used as the sole source of heat or the emission unit was not heated.”


(3) The owner or operator must submit the results of any performance test conducted during the reporting period, including one complete report documenting test methods and procedures, process operation, and monitoring parameter ranges or values for each test method used for a particular type of emission point tested. 


(i) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, following the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.


(A) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (*https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/chiefert/ert_info.html*), you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*).) Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(B) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(ii) [Reserved]


(4) A malfunction report that is required under paragraph (d) of this section shall be submitted simultaneously with the semiannual excess emissions/summary report required by paragraph (b) of this section.


(c) *Annual compliance certifications.* For the purpose of annual certifications of compliance required by 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the owner or operator of a major source subject to this subpart must certify continuing compliance based upon, but not limited to, the following conditions:


(1) Any period of excess emissions, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, that occurred during the year were reported as required by this subpart; and 


(2) All monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements were met during the year. 


(d) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the owner or operator must submit a report that includes the emission unit ID, monitor ID, pollutant or parameter monitored, beginning date and time of the event, end date and time of the event, cause of the deviation or exceedance and corrective action taken for each malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must include a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, including, but not limited to, product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements when available, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1506(a)(5).


(e) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (b) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [65 FR 15710, Mar. 23, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 53984, Sept. 3, 2004; 71 FR 20461, Apr. 20, 2006; 80 FR 56753, Sept. 18, 2015; 81 FR 38088, June 13, 2016]




