# ยง 98.30   Definitions.

Whenever in this subpart of the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean: 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any other employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, to whom authority has been or may be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (APHIS or Service.)


*Animals.* Cattle, sheep, goats, other ruminants, swine, horses, asses, zebras, and poultry.


*Cattle.* Animals of the bovine species.


*Communicable disease.* Any contagious, infectious, or communicable disease of domestic livestock, poultry or other animals.


*Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).


*Establishment.* The premises in which animals are kept.


*Flock.* A herd. 


*Herd.* All animals maintained on any single premises; and all animals under common ownership or supervision on two or more premises which are geographically separated, but among which there is an interchange or movement of animals. 


*Horses.* Horses, asses, mules, and zebras.


*Inspector.* An employee of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service authorized to perform duties required under this subpart.


*Port veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to perform duties required under this part at a port of entry.


*Poultry.* Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys (including eggs for hatching).


*Region.* Any defined geographic land area identifiable by geological, political, or surveyed boundaries. A region may consist of any of the following:


(1) A national entity (country);


(2) Part of a national entity (zone, county, department, municipality, parish, Province, State, etc.)


(3) Parts of several national entities combined into an area; or


(4) A group of national entities (countries) combined into a single area.


*Restricted zone for classical swine fever.* An area, delineated by the relevant competent veterinary authorities of the region in which the area is located, that surrounds and includes the location of an outbreak of classical swine fever in domestic swine or detection of the disease in wild boar, and from which the movement of domestic swine is prohibited.


*Ruminants.* All animals which chew the cud, such as cattle, buffaloes, sheep, goats, deer, antelopes, camels, llamas and giraffes.


*Swine.* The domestic hog and all varieties of wild hogs.


*United States.* All of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and all other Territories and Possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [55 FR 31558, Aug. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 56 FR 55809, Oct. 30, 1991; 61 FR 17242, Apr. 19, 1996; 62 FR 56026, Oct. 28, 1997; 65 FR 56777, Sept. 20, 2000; 71 FR 29071, May 19, 2006; 72 FR 67233, Nov. 28, 2007; 76 FR 70039, Nov. 10, 2011; 77 FR 1396, Jan. 10, 2012; 86 FR 68864, Dec. 3, 2021]




