# ยง 668.211   Notification, damage assessment, and finding.

(a) *Notification.* During or as soon as possible after a natural disaster or catastrophic failure, each applicant will notify the DFDE of its tentative intent to apply for emergency relief and request that a Finding be made.


(b) *Acknowledgment.* The DFDE will promptly acknowledge the notification and briefly describe subsequent damage assessment, Finding, and application procedures.


(c) *Field report.* The applicant shall cooperate with the DFDE to promptly make a field survey of overall damage and in the preparation of a field report.


(d) *Finding.* Using the field report and other information deemed appropriate, the DFDE will promptly issue a Finding and if an Affirmative Finding is made, establish the date after which repair or reconstruction will be considered for emergency relief, and note the dates of the extraordinary natural occurrence or catastrophic event responsible for the damage or destruction.


(e) *Detailed site inspections.* (1) If an Affirmative Finding is made, the applicant shall cooperate with the DFDE to make a detailed inspection of each damage site.


(2) If it appears certain an Affirmative Finding will be made, the DFDE may elect to make these site inspections at the time damage is initially assessed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(f) The applicant shall make available to FHWA personnel conducting damage survey and estimate work maps depicting designated Federal roads in the affected area.



---

[N] [43 FR 59485, Dec. 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 10529, Mar. 11, 1982]




