# § 410.1   Basin regulations—Water Code and Administrative Manual—Part III Water Quality Regulations.

(a) The Water Code of the Delaware River Basin is a codification of regulations of the Delaware River Basin Commission applicable to public and private water projects and programs within the Delaware River Basin. Article I of the water code sets forth general policies of the Commission. Article II concerns the conservation, development and utilization of Delaware River Basin water resources, including during periods of drought. Article III sets forth water quality standards and guidelines for the Delaware River Basin. Article IV contains rules relating to application of water quality standards within the Basin. The Commission's Administrative Manual—Part III, Water Quality Regulations, applies to all public and private entities that discharge waste to waters of the Delaware River Basin.


(b) Article III of the water code consists of Article III of the water quality regulations. Article IV of the water code consists of portions of Article IV of the water quality regulations.




(c) Work, services, activities and facilities affecting the conservation, utilization, control, development or management of water resources within the Delaware River Basin are subject to regulations contained within the Delaware River Basin Water Code with Amendments through December 7, 2022 and the Administrative Manual—Part III Water Quality Regulations with Amendments through December 7, 2022. Both the Delaware River Basin Water Code and the Administrative Manual—Part III Water Quality Regulations are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain or inspect this material at the Delaware River Basin Commission (DRBC), 25 Cosey Road, West Trenton, New Jersey 08628-0360, 609-883-9500, *www.drbc.gov.* You may inspect this material at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*


---

[N] [73 FR 55750, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 60155, Nov. 20, 2009; 76 FR 16285, Mar. 23, 2011; 79 FR 26615, May 9, 2014; 88 FR 7006, Feb. 2, 2023]




