# § 100.602   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions will apply:


*Administrative Offset* means withholding money payable by the United States Government (including money payable by the United States Government on behalf of a State Government) to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States Government.


*Centralized offset* means the offset of Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program to collect debts which creditor agencies have certified pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3716(c), 3720A(a) and applicable regulations. The term “centralized offset” includes the Treasury Offset Program's processing of offsets of Federal payments disbursed by disbursing officials other than the Department of the Treasury.


*Claim or debt* means an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be owed to the United States by a person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of *administrative offset* under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms *claim* and *debt* include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


*Cross-servicing* means that the Department of the Treasury or another debt collection center is taking appropriate debt collection action on behalf of one or more Federal agencies or a unit or sub-agency thereof.


*Debtor* means an individual, organization, group, association, partnership, or corporation indebted to the United States, or the person or entity with legal responsibility for assuming the debtor's obligation.


*Delinquent* refers to the status of a debt and means a debt has not been paid by the date specified in the initial written demand for payment or applicable contractual agreement with the NLRB, unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made by that date. If the debtor fails to satisfy obligations under a payment agreement with the NLRB after other payment arrangements have been made, the debt becomes a delinquent debt.


*Payment in full* means payment of the total debt due the United States, including any interest, penalty, and administrative costs of collection assessed against the debtor.


*Recoupment* is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.




