# § 1.857-9   Information required in returns of shareholders.

(a) *In general.* Any person who fails or refuses to submit to a real estate investment trust the written statements required under § 1.857-8 to be demanded by such trust from its shareholders of record shall submit at the time he files his income tax return for his taxable year which ends with, or includes, the last day of the trust's taxable year (or before July 1, 1962, whichever is later) a statement setting forth the information required by this section.


(b) *Information required*—(1) *Shareholder of record not actual owner.* In the case of any person holding shares of stock in any trust claiming to be a real estate investment trust who is not the actual owner of such stock, the name and address of each actual owner, the number of shares owned by each actual owner at any time during such person's taxable year, and the amount of dividends belonging to each actual owner.


(2) *Actual owner of shares.* In the case of an actual owner of shares of stock in any trust claiming to be a real estate investment trust—


(i) The name and address of each such trust, the number of shares actually owned by him at any and all times during his taxable year, and the amount of dividends from each such trust received during his taxable year;


(ii) If shares of any such trust were acquired or disposed of during such person's taxable year, the name and address of the trust, the number of shares acquired or disposed of, the dates of acquisition or disposition, and the names and addresses of the persons from whom such shares were acquired or to whom they were transferred;


(iii) If any shares of stock (including securities convertible into stock) of any such trust are also owned by any member of such person's family (as defined in section 544(a)(2)), or by any of his partners, the name and address of the trust, the names and addresses of such members of his family and his partners, and the number of shares owned by each such member of his family or partner at any and all times during such person's taxable year; and


(iv) The names and addresses of any corporation, partnership, association, or trust, in which such person had a beneficial interest of 10 percent or more at any time during his taxable year.



---

[N] [T.D. 6598, 27 FR 4089, Apr. 28, 1962, as amended by T.D. 6628, 27 FR 12794, Dec. 28, 1962. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 7767, 46 FR 11277, 11279, Feb. 6, 1981]




