# § 745.90   Renovator certification and dust sampling technician certification.

(a) *Renovator certification and dust sampling technician certification.* (1) To become a certified renovator or certified dust sampling technician, an individual must successfully complete the appropriate course accredited by EPA under § 745.225 or by a State or Tribal program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part. The course completion certificate serves as proof of certification. EPA renovator certification allows the certified individual to perform renovations covered by this section in any State or Indian Tribal area that does not have a renovation program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part. EPA dust sampling technician certification allows the certified individual to perform dust clearance sampling under § 745.85(c) in any State or Indian Tribal area that does not have a renovation program that is authorized under subpart Q of this part.


(2) Individuals who have successfully completed an accredited abatement worker or supervisor course, or individuals who successfully completed an EPA, HUD, or EPA/HUD model renovation training course before October 4, 2011 may take an accredited refresher renovator training course that includes hands-on training in lieu of the initial renovator training course to become a certified renovator.


(3) Individuals who have successfully completed an accredited lead-based paint inspector or risk assessor course before October 4, 2011 may take an accredited refresher dust sampling technician course in lieu of the initial training to become a certified dust sampling technician. Individuals who are currently certified as lead-based paint inspectors or risk assessors may act as certified dust sampling technicians without further training.




(4) To maintain renovator certification or dust sampling technician certification, an individual must complete a renovator or dust sampling technician refresher course accredited by EPA under § 745.225 or by a State or Tribal program that is authorized under Subpart Q of this part within 5 years of the date the individual completed the initial course described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the individual does not complete a refresher course within this time, the individual must re-take the initial course to become certified again. Individuals who take a renovator refresher course that does not include hands-on training will be certified for 3 years from the date they complete the training. Individuals who take a refresher training course that includes hands-on training will be certified for 5 years. Individuals who take the renovator refresher without hands-on training must, for their next refresher course, take a refresher course that includes hands-on training to maintain renovator certification.




(b) *Renovator responsibilities.* Certified renovators are responsible for ensuring compliance with § 745.85 at all renovations to which they are assigned. A certified renovator:


(1) Must perform all of the tasks described in § 745.85(b) and must either perform or direct workers who perform all of the tasks described in § 745.85(a).


(2) Must provide training to workers on the work practices required by § 745.85(a) that they will be using in performing their assigned tasks.


(3) Must be physically present at the work site when the signs required by § 745.85(a)(1) are posted, while the work area containment required by § 745.85(a)(2) is being established, and while the work area cleaning required by § 745.85(a)(5) is performed.


(4) Must regularly direct work being performed by other individuals to ensure that the work practices required by § 745.85(a) are being followed, including maintaining the integrity of the containment barriers and ensuring that dust or debris does not spread beyond the work area.


(5) Must be available, either on-site or by telephone, at all times that renovations are being conducted.


(6) When requested by the party contracting for renovation services, must use an acceptable test kit to determine whether components to be affected by the renovation contain lead-based paint.


(7) Must have with them at the work site copies of their initial course completion certificate and their most recent refresher course completion certificate.


(8) Must prepare the records required by § 745.86(b)(1)(ii) and (6).


(c) *Dust sampling technician responsibilities.* When performing optional dust clearance sampling under § 745.85(c), a certified dust sampling technician:


(1) Must collect dust samples in accordance with § 745.227(e)(8), must send the collected samples to a laboratory recognized by EPA under TSCA section 405(b), and must compare the results to the action levels in accordance with § 745.227(e)(8).




(2) Must have with them at the work site copies of their initial course completion certificate and their most recent refresher course completion certificate.



---

[N] [73 FR 21765, Apr. 22, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 24819, May 6, 2010; 76 FR 47939, Aug. 5, 2011; 80 FR 20446, Apr. 16, 2015; 81 FR 7995, Feb. 17, 2016; 89 FR 89457, Nov. 12, 2024]




