# ยง 253.50   Definitions.

The terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


*Act* means the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986, Public Law 99-659 (Title III).


*Adopt* means to implement an interstate fishery management plan by State action or regulation.


*Commercial fishery failure* means a serious disruption of a fishery resource affecting present or future productivity due to natural or undetermined causes. It does not include either:


(1) The inability to harvest or sell raw fish or manufactured and processed fishery merchandise; or


(2) Compensation for economic loss suffered by any segment of the fishing industry as the result of a resource disaster.


*Enforcement agreement* means a written agreement, signed and dated, between a state agency and either the Secretary of the Interior or Secretary of Commerce, or both, to enforce Federal and state laws pertaining to the protection of interjurisdictional fishery resources.


*Federal fishery management plan* means a plan developed and approved under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*).


*Fisheries management* means all activities concerned with conservation, restoration, enhancement, or utilization of fisheries resources, including research, data collection and analysis, monitoring, assessment, information dissemination, regulation, and enforcement.


*Fishery resource* means finfish, mollusks, and crustaceans, and any form of marine or Great Lakes animal or plant life, including habitat, other than marine mammals and birds.


*Interjurisdictional fishery resource* means:


(1) A fishery resource for which a fishery occurs in waters under the jurisdiction of one or more states and the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone; or


(2) A fishery resource for which an interstate or a Federal fishery management plan exists; or


(3) A fishery resource which migrates between the waters under the jurisdiction of two or more States bordering on the Great Lakes.


*Interstate Commission* means a commission or other administrative body established by an interstate compact.


*Interstate compact* means a compact that has been entered into by two or more states, established for purposes of conserving and managing fishery resources throughout their range, and consented to and approved by Congress.


*Interstate Fisheries Research Program* means research conducted by two or more state agencies under a formal interstate agreement.


*Interstate fishery management plan* means a plan for managing a fishery resource developed and adopted by the member states of an Interstate Marine Fisheries Commission, and contains information regarding the status of the fishery resource and fisheries, and recommends actions to be taken by the States to conserve and manage the fishery resource.


*Landed* means the first point of offloading fishery resources.


*NMFS Regional Director* means the Director of any one of the five National Marine Fisheries Service regions.


*Project* means an undertaking or a proposal for research in support of management of an interjurisdictional fishery resource or an interstate fishery management plan.


*Research* means work or investigative study, designed to acquire knowledge of fisheries resources and their habitat.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce or his/her designee.


*State* means each of the several states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State agency* means any department, agency, commission, or official of a state authorized under the laws of the State to regulate commercial fisheries or enforce laws relating to commercial fisheries.


*Value* means the monetary worth of fishery resources used in developing the apportionment formula, which is equal to the price paid at the first point of landing.


*Volume* means the weight of the fishery resource as landed, at the first point of landing.




