# ยง 250.1500   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart have the following meaning:


*Contractor and contract personnel* mean anyone, other than an employee of the lessee, performing well control, deepwater well control, or production safety duties for the lessee.


*Deepwater well control* means well control when you are using a subsea BOP system.


*Employee* means direct employees of the lessees who are assigned well control, deepwater well control, or production safety duties.


*I or you* means the lessee engaged in oil, gas, or sulphur operations in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS).


*Lessee* means a person who has entered into a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals. The term lessee also includes an owner of operating rights for that lease and the BOEM-approved assignee of that lease.


*Periodic* means occurring or recurring at regular intervals. Each lessee must specify the intervals for periodic training and periodic assessment of training needs in their training programs.


*Production operations* include, but are not limited to, separation, dehydration, compression, sweetening, and metering operations.


*Production safety* includes measures, practices, procedures, and equipment to ensure safe, accident-free, and pollution-free production operations, as well as installation, repair, testing, maintenance, and operation of surface and subsurface safety equipment.


*Well completion/well workover* means those operations following the drilling of a well that are intended to establish or restore production.


*Well-control* means methods used to minimize the potential for the well to flow or kick and to maintain control of the well in the event of flow or a kick. Well-control applies to drilling, well-completion, well-workover, abandonment, and well-servicing operations. It includes measures, practices, procedures and equipment, such as fluid flow monitoring, to ensure safe and environmentally protective drilling, completion, abandonment, and workover operations as well as the installation, repair, maintenance, and operation of surface and subsea well-control equipment.



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 50896, Aug. 22, 2012]




