# § 204.2   Definitions.

(a) As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act. 


(1) *Act* means the Noise Control Act of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-574, 86 Stat. 1234). 


(2) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or his authorized representative. 


(3) *Agency* means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 


(4) *Export exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10 (a) (1), (2), (3), and (4) of the Act, granted by statute under section 10(b)(2) of the Act for the purpose of exporting regulated products. 


(5) *National security exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10(a) (1), (2), (3), and (5) of the Act, which may be granted under section 10(b)(1) of the Act for the purpose of national security. 


(6) [Reserved]


(7) *Testing exemption* means an exemption from the prohibitions of section 10(a) (1), (2), (3), and (5) of the Act, which may be granted under section 10(b)(1) of the Act for the purpose of research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, or training, but not including national security where lease or sale of the exempted product is involved. 


(8) *Warranty* means the warranty required by section 6(c)(1) of the Act. 


(9) *Tampering* means those acts prohibited by section 10(a)(2) of the Act. 


(10) *Maintenance instructions* means those instructions for maintenance, use, and repair, which the Administrator is authorized to require pursuant to section 6(c)(1) of the Act. 


(11) *Type I Sound Level Meter* means a sound level meter which meets the Type I requirements of American National Standard Specification S1.4-1971 for sound level meters. This publication is available from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, New York 10018. 


(12) *dBA* is the standard abbreviation for A-weighted sound level in decibels. 


(13) *Reasonable assistance* means providing timely and unobstructed access to test products or products and records required by this part and opportunity for copying such records or testing such test products. 


(14) *Slow meter response* means the meter ballistics of meter dynamic characteristics as specified by American National Standard S1.4-1971 or subsequent approved revisions. 


(15) *Sound level* means the weighted sound pressure level measured by the use of a metering characteristic and weighing A, B, or C as specified in American National Standard Specification for Sound Level Meters S1.4-1971 or subsequent approved revision. The weighting employed must be specified, otherwise A-weighting is understood. 


(16) *Sound pressure level* means, in decibels, 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of a sound pressure to the reference sound pressure of 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter). In the absence of any modifier, the level is understood to be that of a root-mean-square pressure. 


(17) *Product* means any construction equipment for which regulations have been promulgated under this part and includes “test product.” 


(18) *Test product* means any product that is required to be tested pursuant to this part. 



---

[N] [41 FR 2172, Jan. 14, 1976, as amended at 47 FR 57711, Dec. 28, 1982]




