# § 2641.302   Separate agency components.

(a) *Designation.* For purposes of 18 U.S.C. 207(c) only, and § 2641.204, the Director of the Office of Government Ethics may designate agency “components” that are distinct and separate from the “parent” agency and from each other. Absent such designation, the representational bar of section 207(c) extends to the whole of the agency in which the former senior employee served. An eligible former senior employee who served in the parent agency is not barred by section 207(c) from making communications to or appearances before any employee of any designated component of the parent, but is barred as to any employee of the parent or of any agency or bureau of the parent that has not been designated. An eligible former senior employee who served in a designated component of the parent agency is barred from communicating to or making an appearance before any employee of that designated component, but is not barred as to any employee of the parent, of another designated component, or of any other agency or bureau of the parent that has not been designated.


(b) *Eligible former senior employees.* All former senior employees are eligible to benefit from this procedure except those who were senior employees by virtue of having been:


(1) Employed in a position for which the rate of pay is specified in or fixed according to 5 U.S.C. 5311-5318 (the Executive Schedule) (*see* example 1 to paragraph (j)(1) of § 2641.301);


(2) Appointed by the President to a position under 3 U.S.C. 105(a)(2)(B); or


(3) Appointed by the Vice President to a position under 3 U.S.C. 106(a)(1)(B).


(c) *Criteria for designation.* A component designation must be based on findings that:


(1) The component is an agency or bureau, within a parent agency, that exercises functions which are distinct and separate from the functions of the parent agency and from the functions of other components of that parent as shown by relevant factors which may include, but are not limited to:


(i) The component's creation by statute or a statutory reference indicating that it exercises functions which are distinct and separate;


(ii) The component's exercise of distinct and separate subject matter or geographical jurisdiction;


(iii) The degree of supervision exercised by the parent over the component;


(iv) Whether the component exercises responsibilities that cut across organizational lines within the parent;


(v) The size of the component in absolute terms; and


(vi) The size of the component in relation to other agencies or bureaus within the parent.


(2) There exists no potential for the use of undue influence or unfair advantage based on past Government service.


(d) *Subdivision of components.* The Director will not ordinarily designate agencies that are encompassed by or otherwise supervised by an existing designated component.


(e) *Procedures.* Distinct and separate components shall be designated in accordance with the following procedure:


(1) *Agency recommendation.* A designated agency ethics official may, at any time, recommend the designation of an additional component or the revocation of a current designation by forwarding a written request to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics addressing the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Agency update.* Designated agency ethics officials shall, by July 1 of each year, forward to the OGE Director a letter stating whether components currently designated should remain designated in light of the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) *Action by the Office of Government Ethics.* The Director of the Office of Government Ethics shall, by rule, make or revoke a component designation after considering the recommendation of the designated agency ethics official. The Director shall maintain a listing of all designated agency components in appendix B to this part.


(f) *Effective dates.* A component designation shall be effective on the date the rule creating the designation is published in the _Federal Register_ and shall be effective as to individuals who terminated senior service either before, on or after that date. Revocation of a component designation shall be effective 90 days after the publication in the _Federal Register_ of the rule that revokes the designation, but shall not be effective as to individuals who terminated senior service prior to the expiration of such 90-day period.


(g) *Effect of organizational changes.* (1) If a former senior employee served in an agency with component designations and the agency or a designated component that employed the former senior employee has been significantly altered by organizational changes, the appropriate designated agency ethics official shall determine whether any successor entity is substantially the same as the agency or a designated component that employed the former senior employee. Section 2641.204(g)(2)(iv)(A) through (g)(2)(iv)(C) should be used for guidance in determining how the 18 U.S.C. 207(c) bar applies when an agency or a designated component has been significantly altered.


(2) *Consultation with Office of Government Ethics.* When counseling individuals concerning the applicability of 18 U.S.C. 207(c) subsequent to significant organizational changes, the appropriate designated agency ethics official (DAEO) shall consult with the Office of Government Ethics. When it is determined that appendix B to this part no longer reflects the current organization of a parent agency, the DAEO shall promptly forward recommendations for designations or revocations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(h) *Unauthorized designations.* No agency or bureau within the Executive Office of the President may be designated as a separate agency component.




