# 12.302   Tailoring of provisions and clauses for the acquisition of commercial products and commercial services.

(a) *General.* The provisions and clauses established in this subpart are intended to address, to the maximum extent practicable, commercial market practices for a wide range of potential Government acquisitions of commercial products and commercial services. However, because of the broad range of commercial products and commercial services  acquired by the Government, variations in commercial practices, and the relative volume of the Government's acquisitions in the specific market, contracting officers may, within the limitations of this subpart, and after conducting appropriate market research, tailor the provision at 52.212-1, Instructions to Offerors-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, and the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions-Commercial Products and Commercial Services, to adapt to the market conditions for each acquisition.


(b) *Tailoring 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services* The following paragraphs of the clause at 52.212-4, Contract Terms and Conditions—Commercial Products and Commercial Services, implement statutory requirements and shall not be tailored—


(1) Assignments;


(2) Disputes;


(3) Payment (except as provided in subpart 32.11);


(4) Invoice;


(5) Other compliances;


(6) Compliance with laws unique to Government contracts; and


(7) Unauthorized obligations.


(c) *Tailoring inconsistent with customary commercial practice.* The contracting officer shall not tailor any clause or otherwise include any additional terms or conditions in a solicitation or contract for commercial products or commercial services in a manner that is inconsistent with customary commercial practice for the item being acquired unless a waiver is approved in accordance with agency procedures. The request for waiver must describe the customary commercial practice found in the marketplace, support the need to include a term or condition that is inconsistent with that practice and include a determination that use of the customary commercial practice is inconsistent with the needs of the Government. A waiver may be requested for an individual or class of contracts for that specific item.


(d) Tailoring shall be by addenda to the solicitation and contract. The contracting officer shall indicate in Block 27a of the SF 1449 if addenda are attached. These addenda may include, for example, a continuation of the schedule of supplies/services to be acquired from blocks 18 through 21 of the SF 1449; a continuation of the description of the supplies/services being acquired; further elaboration of any other item(s) on the SF 1449; any other terms or conditions necessary for the performance of the proposed contract (such as options, ordering procedures for indefinite-delivery type contracts, warranties, contract financing arrangements, etc.).



---

[N] [60 FR 48241, Sept. 18, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 45772, Aug. 29, 1996; 61 FR 67430, Dec. 20, 1996; 62 FR 264, Jan. 2, 1997; 78 FR 37688, June 21, 2013; 86 FR 61023, Nov. 4, 2021; 87 FR 24844, Apr. 26, 2022]




