# § 721.11284   Di(substituted-1,3-trialkylammonium) dialkylammonium salt (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as di(substituted-1,3-trialkylammonium) dialkylammonium salt (PMN P-18-88) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been fully reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1)(ii) through (iv), (g)(2)(i) through (iii) and (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used. For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that generates a vapor, mist, particulate, or aerosol.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=1000.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46143, Aug. 18, 2021]




