# § 60.111   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Storage vessel* means any tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of petroleum liquids, but does not include: 


(1) Pressure vessels which are designed to operate in excess of 15 pounds per square inch gauge without emissions to the atmosphere except under emergency conditions, 


(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs, or 


(3) Underground tanks if the total volume of petroleum liquids added to and taken from a tank annually does not exceed twice the volume of the tank. 


(b) *Petroleum liquids* means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery but does not mean Nos. 2 through 6 fuel oils as specified in ASTM D396-78, 89, 90, 92, 96, or 98, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, or diesel fuel oils Nos. 2-D and 4-D as specified in ASTM D975-78, 96, or 98a. (These three methods are incorporated by reference—see § 60.17.)


(c) *Petroleum refinery* means each facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking, extracting, or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives. 


(d) *Petroleum* means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal. 


(e) *Hydrocarbon* means any organic compound consisting predominantly of carbon and hydrogen. 


(f) *Condensate* means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas which condenses due to changes in the temperature and/or pressure and remains liquid at standard conditions. 


(g) *Custody transfer* means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation. 


(h) *Drilling and production facility* means all drilling and servicing equipment, wells, flow lines, separators, equipment, gathering lines, and auxiliary nontransportation-related equipment used in the production of petroleum but does not include natural gasoline plants. 


(i) *True vapor pressure* means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by a petroleum liquid as determined in accordance with methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks, Second Edition, February 1980 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(j) *Floating roof* means a storage vessel cover consisting of a double deck, pontoon single deck, internal floating cover or covered floating roof, which rests upon and is supported by the petroleum liquid being contained, and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the space between the roof edge and tank wall. 


(k) *Vapor recovery system* means a vapor gathering system capable of collecting all hydrocarbon vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and a vapor disposal system capable of processing such hydrocarbon vapors and gases so as to prevent their emission to the atmosphere. 


(l) *Reid vapor pressure* is the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).



---

[N] [39 FR 9317, Mar. 8, 1974; 39 FR 13776, Apr. 17, 1974, as amended at 39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974; 45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980; 48 FR 3737, Jan. 27, 1983; 52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987; 65 FR 61755, Oct. 17, 2000] 




