# § 57.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*Age of majority.* The age when a person acquires the rights and responsibilities of being an adult. For purposes of this part, a child attains majority at age 18, unless the child has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be incompetent, or, if the child has not been determined to be incompetent, he or she is incapable of providing informed consent with respect to his or her educational program.


*Alternate assessment.* An objective and consistent process that validly measures the performance of students with disabilities unable to participate, even with appropriate accommodations provided as necessary and as determined by their respective CSC, in a system-wide assessment.


*Alternative educational setting (AES).* A temporary setting in or out of the school, other than the setting normally attended by the student (e.g., alternative classroom, home setting, installation library) as determined by school authorities or the CSC, in accordance with § 57.6(b)(12) as the appropriate learning environment for a student because of a violation of school rules and regulations or disruption of regular classroom activities.


*Assistive technology device.* Any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially or off the shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of children with disabilities. This term does not include a medical device that is surgically implanted or the replacement of that device.


*Assistive technology service.* Any service that directly assists an individual with a disability in the selection, acquisition, or use of an assistive technology device. The term includes: Evaluating the needs of an individual with a disability, including a functional evaluation in the individual's customary environment; purchasing, leasing, or otherwise providing for the acquisition of assistive technology devices by individuals with disabilities; selecting, designing, fitting, customizing, adapting, applying, maintaining, repairing, or replacing assistive technology devices; coordinating and using other therapies, interventions, or services with assistive technology devices, such as those associated with existing educational and rehabilitative plans and programs; training or technical assistance for an individual with disabilities or the family of an individual with disabilities; and training or technical assistance for professionals (including individuals providing educational rehabilitative services), employers, or other individuals who provide services to, employ, or are otherwise substantially involved in the major life functions of an individual with a disability.


*Case study committee (CSC).* A school-level multidisciplinary team, including the child's parents, responsible for making educational decisions concerning a child with a disability.


*Child-find.* An outreach program used by DoDEA, the Military Departments, and the other DoD Components to locate, identify, and evaluate children from birth to age 21, inclusive, who may require EIS or special education and related services. All children who are eligible to attend a DoD school under 20 U.S.C. 921-932 or 10 U.S.C. 2164 fall within the scope of the DoD child-find responsibilities. Child-find activities include the dissemination of information to Service members, DoD employees, and parents of students eligible to enroll in DoDEA schools; the identification and screening of children; and the use of referral procedures.


*Children with disabilities.* Children, ages 3 through 21, inclusive, who are entitled to enroll, or are enrolled, in a DoD school in accordance with 20 U.S.C. 921-932 and 10 U.S.C. 2164, have not graduated from high school or completed the General Education Degree, have one or more disabilities in accordance with section 1401(3) of the IDEA, and need and qualify for special education and related services.


*Complainant.* Person making an administrative complaint.


*Comprehensive system of personnel development (CSPD).* A system of personnel development that is developed in coordination with the Military Departments and the Director, DoDEA. CSPD is the training of professionals, paraprofessionals, and primary referral source personnel with respect to the basic components of early intervention, special education, and related services. CSPD may also include implementing innovative strategies and activities for the recruitment and retention of personnel providing special education and related services, ensuring that personnel requirements are established and maintaining qualifications to ensure that personnel necessary to carry out the purposes of this part are appropriately and adequately prepared to provide special education and related services. Training of personnel may include working within the military and with military families, the emotional and social development of children, and transition services from early intervention to preschool and transitions within educational settings and to post-secondary environments.


*Consent.* The permission obtained from the parent ensuring they are fully informed of all information about the activity for which consent is sought, in his or her native language or in another mode of communication if necessary, and that the parent understands and agrees in writing to the implementation of the activity for which permission is sought.


*Continuum of placement options.* Instruction in general education classes, special classes, special schools, home instruction, and instruction in hospitals and institutions; includes provision for supplementary services (such as resource room or itinerant instruction) to be provided in conjunction with regular class placement.


*Controlled substance.* As defined in Sections 801-971 of title 21, United States Code (also known as the “Controlled Substances Act, as amended”).


*Day.* A calendar day, unless otherwise indicated as a business day or a school day.


(1) *Business day.* Monday through Friday except for Federal and State holidays.


(2) *School day.* Any day, including a partial day, that children are in attendance at school for instructional purposes. School day has the same meaning for all children in school, including children with and without disabilities.


*Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA).* The Department of Defense Education Activity is a DoD Field Activity under the direction, operation, and control of the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel & Readiness (USD(P&R)) and the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness & Force Management (ASD(R&FM)). The mission of DoDEA is to provide an exemplary education by effectively and efficiently planning, directing, and overseeing the management, operation, and administration of the DoD Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS) and the DoD Dependents Schools (DoDDS), which provide instruction from kindergarten through grade 12 to eligible dependents.


*Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS).* The overseas schools (kindergarten through grade 12) established in accordance with 20 U.S.C. 921-932.


*Department of Defense Education Activity School.* A DDESS or DoDDS school operated under the oversight of DoDEA.


*Developmental Delay in children ages 3 through 7.* A child three through seven (or any subset of that age range, including ages 3 through 5) who is experiencing developmental delays, as defined for infants and toddlers at § 57.6(a)(4)(ii)(A) as measured by appropriate diagnostic instruments and procedures, in one or more of the following areas: Physical development, cognitive development, communication development, social or emotional development, or adaptive development, and who, by reason thereof, needs special education and related services. A child determined to have a developmental delay before the age of 7 may maintain that eligibility through age 9.


*Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS).* The schools (pre-kindergarten through grade 12) established in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 2164.


*Early intervention service provider.* An individual that provides early intervention services in accordance with this part.


*Educational and Developmental Intervention Services (EDIS).* Programs operated by the Military Departments to provide EIS to eligible infants and toddlers with disabilities, and related services to eligible children with disabilities in accordance with this part.


*EIS.* Developmental services for infants and toddlers with disabilities, as defined in this part, that are provided under the supervision of a Military Department, including evaluation, individualized family service plan (IFSP) development and revision, and service coordination, provided at no cost to the child's parents (except for incidental fees also charged to children without disabilities).


*Extended school year (ESY) services.* Special education and related services that are provided to a child with a disability beyond the normal DoDEA school year, in accordance with the child's IEP, are at no cost to the parents, and meet the standards of the DoDEA school system.


*Evaluation.* The method used by a multidisciplinary team to conduct and review the assessments of the child and other relevant input to determine whether a child has a disability and a child's initial and continuing need to receive EIS or special education and related services.


*Extracurricular and non-academic activities.* Services and activities including counseling services; athletics; transportation; health services; recreational activities; special interest groups or clubs sponsored by the DoDEA school system; and referrals to agencies that provide assistance to individuals with disabilities and employment of students, including employment by a public agency and assistance in making outside employment available.


*FAPE.* Special education and related services that are provided under the general supervision and direction of DoDEA at no cost to parents of a child with a disability, in conformity with an IEP, in accordance with the requirements of the IDEA and DoD guidance.


*Functional behavioral assessment.* A process for identifying the events that predict and maintain patterns of problem behavior.


*General education curriculum.* The curriculum adopted by the DoDEA school systems for all children from preschool through secondary school. To the extent applicable to an individual child with a disability, the general education curriculum can be used in any educational environment along a continuum of alternative placements.


*IEP.* A written document that is developed, reviewed, and revised at a meeting of the CSC, identifying the required components of the individualized education program for a child with a disability.


*Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP).* A written document identifying the specially designed services for an infant or toddler with a disability and the family of such infant or toddler.


*Independent educational evaluation (IEE).* An evaluation conducted by a qualified examiner who is not an EDIS examiner or an examiner funded by the DoDEA school who conducted the evaluation with which the parent is in disagreement.


*Infants and toddlers with disabilities.* Children from birth up to 3 years of age, inclusive, who need EIS because:


(1) They are experiencing developmental delays as measured by appropriate diagnostic instruments and procedures, in one or more of the following areas: Cognitive development, physical development including vision and hearing, communication development, social or emotional development, adaptive development; or


(2) They have a diagnosed physical or mental condition that has a high probability of resulting in developmental delay.


*Inter-component.* Cooperation among DoD organizations and programs, ensuring coordination and integration of services to infants, toddlers, children with disabilities, and their families.


*Manifestation determination.* The process in which the CSC reviews all relevant information and the relationship between the child's disability and the child's behavior to determine whether the behavior is a manifestation of the child's disability.


*Mediation.* A confidential, voluntary, informal dispute resolution process that is provided at no charge to the parents, whether or not a due process petition has been filed, in which the disagreeing parties engage in a discussion of issues related to the provision of the child's EIS or special education and related services in accordance with the requirements of IDEA and this part, in the presence of, or through, a qualified and impartial mediator who is trained in effective mediation techniques.


*Medical services.* Those evaluative, diagnostic, and therapeutic, services provided by a licensed and credentialed medical provider to assist providers of EIS, regular and special education teachers, and providers of related services to develop and implement IFSPs and IEPs.


*Multidisciplinary.* The involvement of two or more disciplines or professions in the integration and coordination of services, including evaluation and assessment activities and development of an IFSP or an IEP.


*Native language.* When used with reference to an individual of limited English proficiency, the home language normally used by such individuals, or in the case of a child, the language normally used by the parents of the child.


*Natural environment.* A setting, including home and community, in which children without disabilities participate.


*Non-DoD school or facility.* A public or private school or other educational program not operated by DoD.


*Parent.* The natural, adoptive, or foster parent of a child, a guardian, an individual acting in the place of a natural or adoptive parent with whom the child lives, or an individual who is legally responsible for the child's welfare if that person contributes at least one-half of the child's support.


*Personally identifiable information.* Information that would make it possible to identify the infant, toddler, or child with reasonable certainty. Information includes: The name of the child, the child's parent or other family member; the address of the child; a personal identifier, such as the child's social security number or student number; or a list of personal characteristics or other information that would make it possible to identify the child with reasonable certainty.


*Primary referral source.* Parents and the DoD Components, including child development centers, pediatric clinics, and newborn nurseries, that suspect an infant or toddler has a disability and bring the child to the attention of the EDIS.


*Psychological services.* Psychological services include: Administering psychological and educational tests and other assessment procedures; interpreting assessment results; obtaining, integrating and interpreting information about child behavior and conditions relating to learning; consulting with other staff members in planning school programs to meet the special educational needs of children as indicated by psychological tests, interviews, direct observations, and behavioral evaluations; planning and managing a program of psychological services, including psychological counseling for children and parents; and assisting in developing positive behavioral intervention strategies.


*Public awareness program.* Activities or print materials focusing on early identification of infants and toddlers with disabilities. Materials may include information prepared and disseminated by a military medical department to all primary referral sources and information for parents on the availability of EIS. Procedures to determine the availability of information on EIS to parents are also included in that program.


*Qualified.* A person who meets the DoD-approved or recognized certification, licensing, or registration requirements or other comparable requirements in the area in which the person provides evaluation or assessment, EIS, special education or related services to an infant, toddler, or child with a disability.


*Rehabilitation counseling.* Services provided by qualified personnel in individual or group sessions that focus specifically on career development, employment preparation, achieving independence, and integration in the workplace and community of the student with a disability. The term also includes vocational rehabilitation services provided to a student with disabilities by vocational rehabilitation programs funded in accordance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. chapter 16.


*Related services.* Transportation and such developmental, corrective, and other supportive services, as required, to assist a child with a disability to benefit from special education under the child's IEP. The term includes services or consults in the areas of speech-language pathology; audiology services; interpreting services; psychological services; physical and occupational therapy; recreation including therapeutic recreation; social work services; and school nurse services designed to enable a child with a disability to receive a FAPE as described in the child's IEP; early identification and assessment of disabilities in children; counseling services including rehabilitation counseling; orientation and mobility services; and medical services for diagnostic or evaluative purposes. The term does not include a medical device that is surgically implanted or the replacement of such.


*Related services assigned to the Military Departments.* Medical and psychological services, audiology, and optometry for diagnostic or evaluative purposes, including consults, to determine whether a particular child has a disability, the type and extent of the disability, and the child's eligibility to receive special services. In the overseas and domestic areas, transportation is provided as a related service by the Military Department when transportation is prescribed in an IFSP for an infant or toddler, birth to 3 years of age, with disabilities.


*Resolution meeting.* The meeting between parents and relevant school personnel, which must be convened within a specified number of days after receiving notice of a due process complaint and prior to the initiation of a due process hearing, in accordance with the IDEA and this part. The purpose of the meeting is for the parent to discuss the due process complaint and the facts giving rise to the complaint so that the school has the opportunity to resolve the complaint.


*Resolution period.* That period of time following a resolution meeting, the length of which is defined in this part, during which the school is afforded an opportunity to resolve the parent's concerns before the dispute can proceed to a due process hearing.


*Separate facility.* A school or a portion of a school, regardless of whether it is operated by DoD, attended exclusively by children with disabilities.


*Serious bodily injury.* A bodily injury, which involves a substantial risk of death; extreme physical pain; protracted and obvious disfigurement; or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty.


*Service coordination.* Activities of a service coordinator to assist and enable an infant or toddler and the family to receive the rights, procedural safeguards, and services that are authorized to be provided.


*Special education.* Specially designed instruction, which is provided at no cost to the parents, to meet the unique needs of a child with a disability, including instruction conducted in the classroom, in the home, in hospitals and institutions, and in other settings; and instruction in physical education.


*Supplementary aids and services.* Aids, services, and other supports that are provided in regular education classes or other educational-related settings, and in extracurricular and non-academic settings to enable children with disabilities to be educated with non-disabled children to the maximum extent appropriate.


*Transition services.* A coordinated set of activities for a child with a disability that is designed to be within a results-oriented process, that is focused on improving the academic and functional achievement of the child with a disability to facilitate the child's movement from school to post-school activities, including post-secondary education, vocational education, integrated employment (including supported employment), continuing and adult education, adult services, independent living, or community participation, and is based on the individual child's needs, taking into account the child's strengths, preferences, and interests and includes instruction, related services, community experiences, the development of employment and other post-school adult living objectives, and when appropriate, acquisition of daily living skills and functional vocational evaluation.


*Transportation.* A service that includes transportation and related costs, including the cost of mileage or travel by taxi, common carrier, tolls, and parking expenses, that are necessary to: enable an eligible child with a disability and the family to receive EIS, when prescribed in a child's IFSP; enable an eligible child with a disability to receive special education and related services, when prescribed as a related service by the child's IEP; and enable a child to obtain an evaluation to determine eligibility for special education and related services, if necessary. It also includes specialized equipment, including special or adapted buses, lifts, and ramps needed to transport children with disabilities.


*Weapon.* Defined in Department of Defense Education Activity Regulation 2051.1, “Disciplinary Rules and Procedures” (available at *http://www.dodea.edu/foia/iod/pdf/2051_1a.pdf*).




