# § 501.62   Petition contents.

(a) A petition for exemption should include the following information:


(1) The name of the petitioner;


(2) The name and location of the unit for which an exemption is being requested;


(3) The specific exemption(s) being requested; and


(4) The name, address, and telephone number of the person who can supply further information.


(b) *Table of contents.* Include only those sections contained in the petition.


(c) *Introduction.* Include the following:


(1) Description of the facility under consideration;


(2) Description of the unit and fuel the petitioner proposes to burn in that unit, including the purpose of and need for the unit; and


(3) Description of the operational requirements for the unit, including size (capacity, input and output in millions of Btu's per hour), output in terms of product or service to be supplied, fuel capability, and operating mode, including capacity factor, utilization factor, and fluctuations in the load.


(d) *General requirements.* The evidence required under part 503 subpart B for each exemption(s) for which the petitioner is applying:


(1) No alternate power supply (§ 503.8):


(2) Use of mixtures (§ 503.9);


(3) Alternative site (§ 503.11);


(4) Compliance Plan (§ 503.12);


(5) Environmental impact analysis (§ 503.13);


(6) Fuels search (§ 503.14).


(e) *Specific evidence.* Evidence required for each exemption, segregated by exemption (part 503 subparts C and D).


(f) *References.* (1) Specify the reports, documents, experts, and other sources consulted in compiling the petition. Cite these sources in accordance with acceptable documentation standards, and indicate the part of the petition to which they apply. If the source is unusual or little known, briefly describe its contents.


(2) Identify at the end of each section of the petition any information or any statement based, in whole or in part, on information or principles which, to petitioner's knowledge, represent significant innovations to or departures from generally accepted facts or principles.


(g) *Appendices.* Include in the appendices material which the petitioner believes substantiates any analyses fundamental to the petition, materials prepared in connection with it, and any other documents, studies, or analyses which are believed to be relevant to the decision to be made. Also, include in the appendices copies of any forms submitted as part of the petition.


(h) *List of preparers.* List the names with the qualifications and professional credentials of the principal contributors to the preparation of the petition. Indicate the sections or subject matters for which each principal contributor was responsible.


(i) *Incorporation by reference.* Pertinent information may be incorporated into the petition by reference when this can be done without impeding agency and public review. Referenced materials must be specifically identified and their contents briefly described in the petition. To incorporate by reference, the material must be submitted with the petition, or if previously submitted, the office to which it was submitted must be identified in the petition. The petitioner cannot incorporate by reference material based on proprietary data not available to OFE for review.



---

[N] [46 FR 59889, Dec. 7, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 50849, Nov. 10, 1982] 




