# § 721.11487   1,3-Propanediamine, N1,N1-dimethyl-, polymers with alkylene glycol ether with alkyltriol (3:1) mixed acrylates and adipates, and alkylene glycol monoacrylate ether with alkyltriol (3:1) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 1,3-propanediamine, N1,N1-dimethyl-, polymers with alkylene glycol ether with alkyltriol (3:1) mixed acrylates and adipates, and alkylene glycol monoacrylate ether with alkyltriol (3:1) (PMN P-19-51) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), and (g)(1)(i) and (iv), (2)(i) through (v), (3)(i) and (ii), (4)(i) and (ii) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1) eye irritation, skin sensitization, and respiratory sensitization. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used. For purposes of § 721.72(e), concentration is set at 0.1%.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and (k).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) where N=3.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




