# § 63.11624   What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) *Notifications.* You must submit the notifications identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Initial Notification.* If you are the owner of an affected source you must submit an Initial Notification no later than May 5, 2010, or 120 days after you become subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the owner and operator;


(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;


(iii) An identification of the relevant standard (*i.e.,* this subpart); and


(iv) A brief description of the operation.


(2) *Notification of Compliance Status.* If you are the owner of an existing affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions on or before May 4, 2012. If you are the owner or operator of a new affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of initial startup, or by October 18, 2010, whichever is later. If you own or operate an affected source that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11619(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in § 63.11620 (a) or (b), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of the date that you commence using materials containing manganese or chromium. This Notification of Compliance Status must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Your company's name and address;


(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart;


(iii) If you own or operate a new source required by § 63.11621(e) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range than constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(e)(2).


(iv) If you own or operate an existing source required by § 63.11621(f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, documentation of what constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).


(v) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your initial average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, documentation of your initial daily pelleting production level determination.


(b) *Annual compliance certification report.* You must, by March 1 of each year, prepare an annual compliance certification report for the previous calendar year containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. You must submit the report if you had any instance described by paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section.


(1) Your company's name and address.


(2) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart.


(3) If the source is not in compliance, include a description of deviations from the applicable requirements, the time periods during which the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken.


(4) If you own or operate a new source that is subject to § 63.11621(e), you must identify all instances when the daily inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage is outside the range that constitutes proper operation of the cyclone submitted as part of your Notification of Compliance Status. In these instances, include the time periods when this occurred and the corrective actions taken.


(5) If you own or operate an existing source that is subject to § 63.11621(f), you must identify all instances when the cyclone was not operating properly as determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).


(6) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year exceeded 50 tpd.


(7) If you own or operate an affected source that was subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year was 50 tpd or less and that you are no longer complying with § 63.11621(e) or (f).


(c) *Records.* You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c)(7) through (9) of this section.


(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.


(2) You must keep a copy of each Annual Compliance Certification prepared in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) For each device used to comply with the requirements in § 63.11621(d), you must keep the records of all inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The date, place, and time of each inspection;


(ii) Person performing the inspection;


(iii) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the device was replaced or restored to operation.


(4) If you own or operate a new source that is subject to § 63.11621(e), you must keep the records in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emission of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by manufacturer's specifications in accordance with § 63.11621(e)(1(i), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Information from the manufacturer regarding the design efficiency of the cyclone,


(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,


(C) The operation and maintenance procedures to ensure proper operation of the cyclone.


(ii) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by certification by a professional engineer in accordance with paragraph § 63.11621(e)(1)(ii), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Certification regarding the design efficiency of the cyclone, along with supporting information,


(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,


(C) The standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.


(iii) If you demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater by a performance in accordance with paragraph § 63.11621(e)(1)(iii), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Results of the testing conducted in accordance with § 63.11623,


(B) The inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone,


(C) The standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.


(iv) Records of all quarterly inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The date, place, and time of each inspection;


(B) Person performing the inspection;


(C) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.


(v) Records of the daily inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage measurements, along with the date, time, and duration of the correction action period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.


(5) If you own or operate an existing source that is subject to § 63.11621(f), you must keep the records in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Records of all quarterly inspections including the information identified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The date, place, and time of each inspection;


(B) Person performing the inspection;


(C) Results of the inspection, including the date, time, and duration of the corrective action period from the time the inspection indicated a problem to the time of the indication that the cyclone was restored to proper operation.


(ii) Records of weekly visual inspections of the operating cyclone, including a record of any corrective action taken as a result of the inspection.


(6) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your average daily feed production level is 50 tpd or less, feed production records to enable the determination of the average daily feed production level.


(7) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).


(8) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.


(9) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.


(d) If you no longer use materials that contain manganese or chromium after January 5, 2010, you must submit a Notification in accordance with § 63.11619(c) which includes the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Your company's name and address;


(2) A statement by a responsible official indicating that the facility no longer uses materials that contain chromium or manganese. This statement should also include an effective date for the termination of use of materials that contain chromium or manganese, and the responsible official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature.



---

[N] [75 FR 546, Jan. 5, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 41994, July 20, 2010; 76 FR 80266, Dec. 23, 2011]




