# § 176.35   HUD's review of the application.

(a) *Timing.* HUD shall complete a review of each application no later than 60 days after its receipt of a completed application.


(b) *Standards of review.* The purpose of the review is to determine whether the application is complete and, with respect to the expressed interest and requests of representatives of the homeless, whether the application:


(1) *Need.* Takes into consideration the size and nature of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation, the availability of existing services in such communities to meet the needs of the homeless in such communities, and the suitability of the buildings and property covered by the application for use and needs of the homeless in such communities. HUD will take into consideration the size and nature of the installation in reviewing the needs of the homeless population in the communities in the vicinity of the installation.


(2) Impact of notices of interest. Takes into consideration any economic impact of the homeless assistance under the plan on the communities in the vicinity of the installation, including:


(i) Whether the plan is feasible in light of demands that would be placed on available social services, police and fire protection, and infrastructure in the community; and,


(ii) Whether the selected notices of interest are consistent with the Consolidated Plan(s) of any other existing housing, social service, community economic, or other development plans adopted by the political jurisdictions in the vicinity of the installation.


(3) Legally binding agreements. Specifies the manner in which the buildings, property, funding, and/or services on or off the installation will be made available for homeless assistance purposes. HUD will review each legally binding agreement to verify that:


(i) They include all the documents legally required to complete the transactions necessary to realize the homeless use(s) described in the application;


(ii) They include all appropriate terms and conditions;


(iii) They address the full range of contingencies including those described at § 176.30(b)(3)(i);


(iv) They stipulate that the buildings, property, funding, and/or services will be made available to the representatives of the homeless in a timely fashion; and,


(v) They are accompanied by a legal opinion of the chief legal advisor of the LRA or political jurisdiction or jurisdictions which will be executing the legally binding agreements that the legally binding agreements will, when executed, constitute legal, valid, binding, and enforceable obligations on the parties thereto.


(4) *Balance.* Balances in an appropriate manner a portion or all of the needs of the communities in the vicinity or the installation for economic redevelopment and other development with the needs of the homeless in such communities.


(5) *Outreach.* Was developed in consultation with representatives of the homeless and the homeless assistance planning boards, if any, in the communities in the vicinity of the installation and whether the outreach requirements described at § 176.20(c)(1) and § 176.20(c)(3) have been fulfilled by the LRA.


(c) *Notice of determination.* (1) HUD shall, no later than the 60th day after its receipt of the application, unless such deadline is extended pursuant to § 176.15(a), send written notification both to DoD and the LRA of its preliminary determination that the application meets or fails to meet the requirements of § 176.35(b). If the application fails to meet the requirements, HUD will send the LRA:


(i) A summary of the deficiencies in the application;


(ii) An explanation of the determination; and,


(iii) A statement of how the LRA must address the determinations.


(2) In the event that no application is submitted and no extension is requested as of the deadline specified in § 176.20(c)(5), and the State does not accept within 30 days a DoD written request to become recognized as the LRA, the absence of such application will trigger an adverse determination by HUD effective on the date of the lapsed deadline. Under these conditions, HUD will follow the process described at § 176.40.


(d) *Opportunity to cure.* (1) The LRA shall have 90 days from its receipt of the notice of preliminary determination under § 176.35(c)(1) within which to submit to HUD and DoD a revised application which addresses the determinations listed in the notice. Failure to submit a revised application shall result in a final determination, effective 90 days from the LRA's receipt of the preliminary determination, that the redevelopment plan fails to meet the requirements of § 176.35(b).


(2) HUD shall, within 30 days of its receipt of the LRA's resubmission send written notification of its final determination of whether the application meets the requirements of § 176.35(b) to both DOD and the LRA.




