# § 223.300   Applicability.

(a) This part sets forth the regulations applicable to the implementation of section 604 of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 2003, “Stewardship End Result Contracting Projects” 16 U.S.C. 6591c. This section provides for the use of contracts and agreements to achieve land management goals for the national forests and the public lands that meet local and rural community needs. In the fulfillment of these activities, the Forest Service may apply the value of timber or other forest products removed from the project site as an offset against the cost of services received under such contracts or agreements.


(b)(1) *Procurement of service contracts.* If the Forest Service makes a determination as provided under section 223.301(b)(1) of this subpart that a stewardship contract is a contract for the procurement of services, the Forest Service will utilize the contracting procedures set forth in the Federal Acquisition Regulations, Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations including the regulations issued by the Department of Agriculture set forth in Chapter 4 of Title 48 as well as requirements included in § 223.303.


(2) *Sale of property contracts.* If the Forest Service makes a determination under § 223.301(b)(2) of this subpart that a stewardship contract is to be a contract for the sale of property, the regulations set forth in subparts A and B of this part are generally applicable, except as provided in § 223.304.


(3) *Agreements.* Agreements entered into under this subpart are not subject to grant regulations found in 2 CFR part 200 as adopted and supplemented by the USDA in 2 CFR parts 400, 416, and 422.


(4) *Other provisions.* Additional terms and conditions for contracts and agreements may be added to a contract or agreement entered into under this subpart, in accordance with applicable law and to the extent determined to be necessary by the Forest Service.


(c) *Parties to contracts and agreements.* The Forest Service may enter into contracts and agreements under this part with private persons, private entities and public entities.






