# ยง 982.402   Subsidy standards.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) The PHA must establish subsidy standards that determine the number of bedrooms needed for families of different sizes and compositions. 


(2) For each family, the PHA determines the appropriate number of bedrooms under the PHA subsidy standards (family unit size). 


(3) The family unit size number is entered on the voucher issued to the family. The PHA issues the family a voucher for the family unit size when a family is selected for participation in the program. 


(b) *Determining family unit size.* The following requirements apply when the PHA determines family unit size under the PHA subsidy standards: 


(1) The subsidy standards must provide for the smallest number of bedrooms needed to house a family without overcrowding. 


(2) The subsidy standards must be consistent with space requirements under the HQS (See ยง 982.401). 


(3) The subsidy standards must be applied consistently for all families of like size and composition. 


(4) A child who is temporarily away from the home because of placement in foster care is considered a member of the family in determining the family unit size. 


(5) A family that consists of a pregnant woman (with no other persons) must be treated as a two-person family. 


(6) Any live-in aide (approved by the PHA to reside in the unit to care for a family member who is disabled or is at least 50 years of age) must be counted in determining the family unit size; 


(7) Unless a live-in-aide resides with the family, the family unit size for any family consisting of a single person must be either a zero or one-bedroom unit, as determined under the PHA subsidy standards. 


(8) In determining family unit size for a particular family, the PHA may grant an exception to its established subsidy standards if the PHA determines that the exception is justified by the age, sex, health, handicap, or relationship of family members or other personal circumstances. (For a single person other than a disabled or elderly person or remaining family member, such PHA exception may not override the limitation in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.) 


(c) *Effect of family unit size-maximum subsidy in voucher program.* The family unit size as determined for a family under the PHA subsidy standard is used to determine the maximum rent subsidy for a family assisted in the voucher program. For a voucher tenancy, the PHA establishes payment standards by number of bedrooms. The payment standard for a family shall be the lower of:


(1) The payment standard amount for the family unit size; or


(2) The payment standard amount for the unit size of the unit rented by the family.


(3) *Voucher program.* For a voucher tenancy, the PHA establishes payment standards by number of bedrooms. The payment standards for the family must be the lower of:


(i) The payment standards for the family unit size; or


(ii) The payment standard for the unit size rented by the family.


(d) *Size of unit occupied by family.* (1) The family may lease an otherwise acceptable dwelling unit with fewer bedrooms than the family unit size. However, the dwelling unit must meet the applicable HQS space requirements. 


(2) The family may lease an otherwise acceptable dwelling unit with more bedrooms than the family unit size. However, utility allowances must follow ยง 982.517(d).



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 23861, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 26646, May 14, 1999; 81 FR 12375, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 30503, May 11, 2023; 89 FR 38296, May 7, 2024; 89 FR 46020, May 28, 2024]








