# ยง 101.55   Considerations involving transfer or assignment applications.

(a) Except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, licenses not authorized pursuant to competitive bidding procedures may not be assigned or transferred prior to the completion of construction of the facility.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) At its discretion, the Commission may require the submission of an affirmative, factual showing (supported by affidavits of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof) to demonstrate that the proposed assignor or transferor has not acquired an authorization or operated a station for the principal purpose of profitable sale rather than public service. This showing may include, for example, a demonstration that the proposed assignment or transfer is due to changed circumstances (described in detail) affecting the licensee subsequent to the acquisition of the license, or that the proposed transfer of radio facilities is incidental to a sale of other facilities or merger of interests. 


(d) If a proposed transfer of radio facilities is incidental to a sale or other facilities or merger of interests, the showing specified under paragraph (c) of this section shall be submitted and include an additional exhibit that: 


(1) Discloses complete details as to the sale of facilities or merger of interests; 


(2) Segregates clearly by an itemized accounting, the amount of consideration involved in the sale of facilities or merger of interests; and 


(3) Demonstrates that the amount of consideration assignable to the facilities or business interests involved represents their fair market value at the time of the transaction. 



---

[N] [61 FR 26677, May 28, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 6104, Feb. 6, 1998; 63 FR 68982, Dec. 14, 1998; 65 FR 38327, June 20, 2000; 68 FR 4955, Jan. 31, 2003]




