# § 111.10   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the term—


*Authorized user* means an individual who is employed by an operator, entity, or trustee and who is designated by a responsible person to access the PRD on behalf of the employer for purposes of reporting and evaluating records that pertain to an individual pilot applicant.


*Begin service as a pilot* means the earliest date on which a pilot serves as a pilot flight crewmember or is assigned duties as a pilot in flight for an operator or entity that is subject to the applicability of this part.


*Final disciplinary action record* means a last-in-time record of corrective or punitive action taken by an operator or entity who is subject to the applicability of this part in response to an event pertaining to pilot performance. No disciplinary action is considered final until the operator determines the action is not subject to any pending dispute.


*Final separation from employment record* means a last-in-time record of any action ending the employment relationship between a pilot and an operator or entity who is subject to the applicability of this part. No separation from employment is considered final until the operator determines the separation is not subject to any pending dispute.


*Historical record* means a record that an operator subject to the applicability of Subpart C of this part must generate and maintain in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 44703(h)(4) and must report to the PRD in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 44703(i)(15)(C)(iii).


*PRD Date of Hire* means:


(1) The earliest date on which an individual:


(i) Begins any form of required training in preparation for the individual's service as a pilot on behalf of an operator or entity subject to the applicability of this part; or


(ii) Performs any duty as a pilot for an operator or entity subject to the applicability of this part.


(2) This definition includes both direct employment and employment that occurs on a contract basis for any form of compensation.


*Proxy* means a person who is designated by a responsible person to access the PRD on behalf of an operator, entity, or trustee subject to the applicability of this part for purposes of reporting or retrieving records.


*Record pertaining to pilot performance* means a record of an activity or event directly related to a pilot's responsibilities or completion of the core duties in conducting safe aircraft operations, as assigned by the operator employing the pilot.


*Reporting entity* means an operator, entity, or trustee that is subject to the applicability of subpart C of part 111, including its responsible person, authorized users, and proxies.


*Responsible person* means the individual identified on the application required by § 111.15 and who meets at least one of the criteria in § 111.15(e).


*Reviewing entity* means operator that is subject to the applicability of subpart B of part 111, including its responsible person, authorized users, and proxies.






