# § 1.367(a)-1   Transfers to foreign corporations subject to section 367(a): In general.

(a) *Scope.* Section 367(a)(1) provides the general rule concerning certain transfers of property by a United States person (referred to at times in this section as the “U.S. person” or “U.S. transferor”) to a foreign corporation. Paragraph (b) of this section provides general rules explaining the effect of section 367(a)(1). Paragraph (c) of this section describes transfers of property that are described in section 367(a)(1). Paragraph (d) of this section provides definitions that apply for purposes of sections 367(a) and (d) and the regulations thereunder. Paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section provide rules that apply to certain reorganizations described in section 368(a)(1)(F). Paragraph (g) of this section provides dates of applicability. For rules concerning the reporting requirements under section 6038B for certain transfers of property to a foreign corporation, see § 1.6038B-1.


(b) *General rules*—(1) *Foreign corporation not considered a corporation for purposes of certain transfers.* If a U.S. person transfers property to a foreign corporation in connection with an exchange described in section 351, 354, 356, or 361, then, pursuant to section 367(a)(1), the foreign corporation will not be considered to be a corporation for purposes of determining the extent to which gain is recognized on the transfer. Section 367(a)(1) denies nonrecognition treatment only to transfers of items of property on which gain is realized. Thus, the amount of gain recognized because of section 367(a)(1) is unaffected by the transfer of items of property on which loss is realized (but not recognized).


(2) *Cases in which foreign corporate status is not disregarded.* For circumstances in which section 367(a)(1) does not apply to a U.S. transferor's transfer of property to a foreign corporation, and thus the foreign corporation is considered to be a corporation, see §§ 1.367(a)-2, 1.367(a)-3, and 1.367(a)-7.


(3) *Determination of value.* In cases in which a U.S. transferor's transfer of property to a foreign corporation constitutes a controlled transaction as defined in § 1.482-1(i)(8), the value of the property transferred is determined in accordance with section 482 and the regulations thereunder.


(4) *Character, source, and adjustments*—(i) *In general.* If a U.S. person is required to recognize gain under section 367 upon a transfer of property to a foreign corporation, then—


(A) The character and source of such gain are determined as if the property had been disposed of in a taxable exchange with the transferee foreign corporation (unless otherwise provided by regulation); and


(B) Appropriate adjustments to earnings and profits, basis, and other affected items will be made according to otherwise applicable rules, taking into account the gain recognized under section 367(a)(1). For purposes of applying section 362, the foreign corporation's basis in the property received is increased by the amount of gain recognized by the U.S. transferor under section 367(a) and the regulations issued pursuant to that section. To the extent the regulations provide that the U.S. transferor recognizes gain with respect to a particular item of property, the foreign corporation increases its basis in that item of property by the amount of such gain recognized. For example, §§ 1.367(a)-2, 1.367(a)-3, and 1.367(a)-4 provide that gain is recognized with respect to particular items of property. To the extent the regulations do not provide that gain recognized by the U.S. transferor is with respect to a particular item of property, such gain is treated as recognized with respect to items of property subject to section 367(a) in proportion to the U.S. transferor's gain realized in such property, after taking into account gain recognized with respect to particular items of property transferred under any other provision of section 367(a). For example, § 1.367(a)-6 provides that branch losses must be recaptured by the recognition of gain realized on the transfer but does not associate the gain with particular items of property. See also § 1.367(a)-1(c)(3) for rules concerning transfers by partnerships or of partnership interests.


(C) The transfer will not be recharacterized for U.S. Federal tax purposes solely because the U.S. person recognizes gain in connection with the transfer under section 367(a)(1). For example, if a U.S. person transfers appreciated stock or securities to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 351, the transfer is not recharacterized as other than an exchange described in section 351 solely because the U.S. person recognizes gain in the transfer under section 367(a)(1).


(ii) *Example.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(4) are illustrated by the following example.


(5) *Treatment of certain property as subject to section 367(d).* A U.S. transferor may apply section 367(d) and § 1.367(d)-1, rather than section 367(a) and the regulations thereunder, to a transfer of property to a foreign corporation that otherwise would be subject to section 367(a), provided that the property is not eligible property, as defined in § 1.367(a)-2(b) but determined without regard to § 1.367(a)-2(c). A U.S. transferor and any other U.S. transferor that is related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)) to the U.S. transferor must consistently apply this paragraph (b)(5) to all property described in this paragraph (b)(5) that is transferred to one or more foreign corporations pursuant to a plan. A U.S. transferor applies the provisions of this paragraph (b)(5) in the form and manner set forth in § 1.6038B-1(d)(1)(iv) and (v).


(c)(1) through (c)(3)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(a)-1T(c)(1) through (c)(3)(i).


(ii) *Transfer of partnership interest treated as transfer of proportionate share of assets*—(A) *In general.* If a U.S. person transfers an interest as a partner in a partnership (whether foreign or domestic) in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1), then that person is treated as having transferred a proportionate share of the property of the partnership in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1). Accordingly, the applicability of the exception to section 367(a)(1) provided in § 1.367(a)-2 is determined with reference to the property of the partnership rather than the partnership interest itself. A U.S. person's proportionate share of partnership property is determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 761 and the regulations thereunder.


(c)(3)(i)(A) *Example* through (7) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(a)-1T(c)(3)(i)(A) *Example* through (7).


(d) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of sections 367(a) and (d) and the regulations thereunder.


(1) *United States person.* The term “United States person” includes those persons described in section 7701(a)(30). The term includes a citizen or resident of the United States, a domestic partnership, a domestic corporation, and any estate or trust other than a foreign estate or trust. (For definitions of these terms, see section 7701 and the regulations thereunder.) For purposes of this section, an individual with respect to whom an election has been made under section 6013(g) or (h) is considered to be a resident of the United States while such election is in effect. A nonresident alien or a foreign corporation will not be considered a United States person because of its actual or deemed conduct of a trade or business within the United States during a taxable year.


(2) *Foreign corporation.* The term “foreign corporation” has the meaning set forth in section 7701(a)(3) and (5) and § 301.7701-5.


(3) *Transfer.* For purposes of section 367 and regulations thereunder, the term “transfer” means any transaction that constitutes a transfer for purposes of section 332, 351, 354, 355, 356, or 361, as applicable. A person's entering into a cost sharing arrangement under § 1.482-7 or acquiring rights to intangible property under such an arrangement shall not be considered a transfer of property described in section 367(a)(1). See § 1.6038B-1T(b)(4) for the date on which the transfer is considered to be made.


(4) *Property.* For purposes of section 367 and the regulations thereunder, the term “property” means any item that constitutes property for purposes of section 351, 354, 355, 356, or 361, as applicable.


(5) *Intangible property.* The term “intangible property” means either property described in section 367(d)(4) or property to which a U.S. person applies section 367(d) pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, but does not include property described in section 1221(a)(3) or a working interest in oil and gas property.


(6) *Operating intangibles.* An operating intangible is any property described in section 367(d)(4) of a type not ordinarily licensed or otherwise transferred in transactions between unrelated parties for consideration contingent upon the licensee's or transferee's use of the property. Examples of operating intangibles may include long-term purchase or supply contracts, surveys, studies, and customer lists.


(e) *Close of taxable year in certain section 368(a)(1)(F) reorganizations.* If a domestic corporation is the transferor corporation in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F) after March 30, 1987, in which the acquiring corporation is a foreign corporation, then the taxable year of the transferor corporation shall end with the close of the date of the transfer and the taxable year of the acquiring corporation shall end with the close of the date on which the transferor's taxable year would have ended but for the occurrence of the transfer. With regard to the consequences of the closing of the taxable year, see section 381 and the regulations thereunder.


(f) *Exchanges under sections 354(a) and 361(a) in certain section 368(a)(1)(F) reorganizations*—(1) *Rule.* In every reorganization under section 368(a)(1)(F), where the transferor corporation is a domestic corporation, and the acquiring corporation is a foreign corporation, there is considered to exist—


(i) A transfer of assets by the transferor corporation to the acquiring corporation under section 361(a) in exchange for stock (or stock and securities) of the acquiring corporation and the assumption by the acquiring corporation of the transferor corporation's liabilities;


(ii) A distribution of the stock (or stock and securities) of the acquiring corporation by the transferor corporation to the shareholders (or shareholders and security holders) of the transferor corporation; and


(iii) An exchange by the transferor corporation's shareholders (or shareholders and security holders) of their stock (or stock and securities) of the transferor corporation for stock (or stock and securities) of the acquiring corporation under section 354(a).


(2) *Rule applies regardless of whether a continuance under applicable law.* For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, it shall be immaterial that the applicable foreign or domestic law treats the acquiring corporation as a continuance of the transferor corporation.


(g) *Effective/applicability dates.* (1) through (3) [Reserved]. For further guidance, *see* § 1.367(a)-1T(g)(1) through (3).


(4) The rules in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(B) and (b)(4)(i)(C) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after April 18, 2013. For guidance with respect to paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section before April 18, 2013, see 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2012. The rules in paragraph (e) of this section apply to transactions occurring on or after March 31, 1987. The rules in paragraph (f) of this section apply to transactions occurring on or after January 1, 1985.


(5) Paragraphs (a), (b)(1) through (b)(4)(i)(B), (b)(4)(ii) through (b)(5), (c)(3)(ii)(A), (d) introductory text through (d)(2), (d)(4) through (d)(6) of this section apply to transfers occurring on or after September 14, 2015, and to transfers occurring before September 14, 2015, resulting from entity classification elections made under § 301.7701-3 that are filed on or after September 14, 2015. For transfers occurring before this section is applicable, see §§ 1.367(a)-1 and 1.367(a)-1T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 9803, 81 FR 91022, Dec. 16, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 52848, Nov. 15, 2017; T.D. 9994, 89 FR 82165, Oct. 10, 2024]




