# ยง 27.172   Preparation of records and reporting of information for release of distilled spirits, natural wines, and beer without payment of tax.

(a) *Preparation of records.* (1) The person importing distilled spirits, natural wines, or beer under this subpart must prepare a transfer record according to ยง 27.138. A separate transfer record must be prepared for each conveyance. The importer must maintain these records and any records to substantiate the information required under paragraph (b) of this section, in accordance with the record retention requirements of ยง 27.137, and must make them available upon request of the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The importer must also provide a copy of the record to the recipient, if the recipient is not the importer.


(2) For distilled spirits, if the spirits are in packages, the importer must prepare a package gauge record according to ยง 27.139 and maintain it with the transfer record.


(b) *Reporting information for release from customs custody.* In the case of distilled spirits, natural wines, and beer imported into the United States without payment of tax under this subpart, the importer, if filing electronically, must file with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the information specified in this section at the time of filing the entry or entry summary, as appropriate, along with any other information that is required by CBP to be filed with the entry or entry summary for purposes of administering the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act). Any information required by this section that is also required by, and filed with, CBP as part of the entry or entry summary for purposes of meeting CBP requirements will satisfy the requirements of this section. Regardless of the method of filing, the importer must retain as a record the information required by this section, any information provided to CBP to meet CBP requirements, and any supporting documentation and make such records available for inspection by the appropriate TTB officer or a customs officer. The following information is required:


(1) The number of the importer's basic permit issued under the FAA Act and the regulations issued pursuant to the FAA Act (27 CFR part 1), if applicable, as required by 27 CFR 1.20, and the importer's employer identification number (EIN) associated with that permit;


(2) The name and address of the ultimate consignee;


(3) The TTB-issued IRC registry number of the ultimate consignee;


(4) The quantity of each distilled spirit, wine, or beer in the shipment (in proof liters or proof gallons, for distilled spirits); and


(5) Information identifying each product for Internal Revenue Code and/or FAA Act purposes.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94207, Dec. 22, 2016]




