# § 268.7   Testing, tracking, and recordkeeping requirements for generators, reverse distributors, treaters, and disposal facilities.

(a) *Requirements for generators and reverse distributors*—(1) A generator of hazardous waste must determine if the waste has to be treated before it can be land disposed. This is done by determining if the hazardous waste meets the treatment standards in § 268.40, 268.45, or § 268.49. This determination can be made concurrently with the hazardous waste determination required in § 262.11 of this chapter, in either of two ways: testing the waste or using knowledge of the waste. If the generator tests the waste, testing would normally determine the total concentration of hazardous constituents, or the concentration of hazardous constituents in an extract of the waste obtained using test method 1311 in “Test Methods of Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, (incorporated by reference, see § 260.11 of this chapter), depending on whether the treatment standard for the waste is expressed as a total concentration or concentration of hazardous constituent in the waste's extract. (Alternatively, the generator must send the waste to a RCRA-permitted hazardous waste treatment facility, where the waste treatment facility must comply with the requirements of § 264.13 of this chapter and paragraph (b) of this section.) In addition, some hazardous wastes must be treated by particular treatment methods before they can be land disposed and some soils are contaminated by such hazardous wastes. These treatment standards are also found in § 268.40, and are described in detail in § 268.42, Table 1. These wastes, and soils contaminated with such wastes, do not need to be tested (however, if they are in a waste mixture, other wastes with concentration level treatment standards would have to be tested). If a generator determines they are managing a waste or soil contaminated with a waste, that displays a hazardous characteristic of ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity, or toxicity, they must comply with the special requirements of § 268.9 of this part in addition to any applicable requirements in this section.


(2) If the waste or contaminated soil does not meet the treatment standards, or if the generator chooses not to make the determination of whether his waste must be treated, with the initial shipment of waste to each treatment or storage facility, the generator must send a one-time written notice to each treatment or storage facility receiving the waste, and place a copy in the file. The notice must include the information in column “268.7(a)(2)” of the Generator Paperwork Requirements Table in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (Alternatively, if the generator chooses not to make the determination of whether the waste must be treated, the notification must include the EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers and Manifest Number of the first shipment and must state “This hazardous waste may or may not be subject to the LDR treatment standards. The treatment facility must make the determination.”) No further notification is necessary until such time that the waste or facility change, in which case a new notification must be sent and a copy placed in the generator's file. 


(3) If the waste or contaminated soil meets the treatment standard at the original point of generation:


(i) With the initial shipment of waste to each treatment, storage, or disposal facility, the generator must send a one-time written notice to each treatment, storage, or disposal facility receiving the waste, and place a copy in the file. The notice must include the information indicated in column “268.7(a)(3)” of the Generator Paperwork Requirements Table in § 268.7(a)(4) and the following certification statement, signed by an authorized representative:


(ii) For contaminated soil, with the initial shipment of wastes to each treatment, storage, or disposal facility, the generator must send a one-time written notice to each facility receiving the waste and place a copy in the file. The notice must include the information in column “268.7(a)(3)” of the Generator Paperwork Requirements Table in § 268.7(a)(4).


(iii) If the waste changes, the generator must send a new notice and certification to the receiving facility, and place a copy in their files. Generators of hazardous debris excluded from the definition of hazardous waste under § 261.3(f) of this chapter are not subject to these requirements.


(4) For reporting, tracking, and recordkeeping when exceptions allow certain wastes or contaminated soil that do not meet the treatment standards to be land disposed: There are certain exemptions from the requirement that hazardous wastes or contaminated soil meet treatment standards before they can be land disposed. These include, but are not limited to case-by-case extensions under § 268.5, disposal in a no-migration unit under § 268.6, or a national capacity variance or case-by-case capacity variance under subpart C of this part. If a generator's waste is so exempt, then with the initial shipment of waste, the generator must send a one-time written notice to each land disposal facility receiving the waste. The notice must include the information indicated in column “268.7(a)(4)” of the Generator Paperwork Requirements Table below. If the waste changes, the generator must send a new notice to the receiving facility, and place a copy in their files.


(5) If a generator is managing and treating prohibited waste or contaminated soil in tanks, containers, or containment buildings regulated under 40 CFR 262.15, 262.16, and 262.17 to meet applicable LDR treatment standards found at § 268.40, the generator must develop and follow a written waste analysis plan which describes the procedures they will carry out to comply with the treatment standards. (Generators treating hazardous debris under the alternative treatment standards of Table 1 to § 268.45, however, are not subject to these waste analysis requirements.) The plan must be kept on site in the generator's records, and the following requirements must be met:


(i) The waste analysis plan must be based on a detailed chemical and physical analysis of a representative sample of the prohibited waste(s) being treated, and contain all information necessary to treat the waste(s) in accordance with the requirements of this part, including the selected testing frequency. 


(ii) Such plan must be kept in the facility's on-site files and made available to inspectors. 


(iii) Wastes shipped off-site pursuant to this paragraph must comply with the notification requirements of § 268.7(a)(3). 


(6) If a generator determines that the waste or contaminated soil is restricted based solely on his knowledge of the waste, all supporting data used to make this determination must be retained on-site in the generator's files. If a generator determines that the waste is restricted based on testing this waste or an extract developed using the test method 1311 in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, as referenced in § 260.11 of this chapter, and all waste analysis data must be retained on-site in the generator's files. 


(7) If a generator determines that he is managing a prohibited waste that is excluded from the definition of hazardous or solid waste or is exempted from Subtitle C regulation under 40 CFR 261.2 through 261.6 subsequent to the point of generation (including deactivated characteristic hazardous wastes managed in wastewater treatment systems subject to the Clean Water Act (CWA) as specified at 40 CFR 261.4(a)(2) or that are CWA-equivalent, or are managed in an underground injection well regulated by the SDWA), he must place a one-time notice describing such generation, subsequent exclusion from the definition of hazardous or solid waste or exemption from RCRA Subtitle C regulation, and the disposition of the waste, in the facility's on-site files.


(8) Generators must retain on-site a copy of all notices, certifications, waste analysis data, and other documentation produced pursuant to this section for at least three years from the date that the waste that is the subject of such documentation was last sent to on-site or off-site treatment, storage, or disposal. The three year record retention period is automatically extended during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the Administrator. The requirements of this paragraph apply to solid wastes even when the hazardous characteristic is removed prior to disposal, or when the waste is excluded from the definition of hazardous or solid waste under 40 CFR 261.2 through 261.6, or exempted from Subtitle C regulation, subsequent to the point of generation. 


(9) If a generator is managing a lab pack containing hazardous wastes and wishes to use the alternative treatment standard for lab packs found at § 268.42(c): 


(i) With the initial shipment of waste to a treatment facility, the generator must submit a notice that provides the information in column “§ 268.7(a)(9)” in the Generator Paperwork Requirements Table of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and the following certification. The certification, which must be signed by an authorized representative and must be placed in the generator's files, must say the following: 


(ii) No further notification is necessary until such time that the wastes in the lab pack change, or the receiving facility changes, in which case a new notice and certification must be sent and a copy placed in the generator's file. 


(iii) If the lab pack contains characteristic hazardous wastes (D001-D043), underlying hazardous constituents (as defined in § 268.2(i)) need not be determined. 


(iv) The generator must also comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section. 


(10) Small quantity generators with tolling agreements pursuant to 40 CFR 262.20(e) must comply with the applicable notification and certification requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for the initial shipment of the waste subject to the agreement. Such generators must retain on-site a copy of the notification and certification, together with the tolling agreement, for at least three years after termination or expiration of the agreement. The three-year record retention period is automatically extended during the course of any unresolved enforcement action regarding the regulated activity or as requested by the Administrator. 


(b) Treatment facilities must test their wastes according to the frequency specified in their waste analysis plans as required by 40 CFR 264.13 (for permitted TSDs) or 40 CFR 265.13 (for interim status facilities). Such testing must be performed as provided in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section. 


(1) For wastes or contaminated soil with treatment standards expressed in the waste extract (TCLP), the owner or operator of the treatment facility must test an extract of the treatment residues, using test method 1311 (the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, described in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846 as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter) to assure that the treatment residues extract meet the applicable treatment standards. 


(2) For wastes or contaminated soil with treatment standards expressed as concentrations in the waste, the owner or operator of the treatment facility must test the treatment residues (not an extract of such residues) to assure that they meet the applicable treatment standards. 


(3) A one-time notice must be sent with the initial shipment of waste or contaminated soil to the land disposal facility. A copy of the notice must be placed in the treatment facility's file. 


(i) No further notification is necessary until such time that the waste or receiving facility change, in which case a new notice must be sent and a copy placed in the treatment facility's file. 


(ii) The one-time notice must include these requirements: 


(4) The treatment facility must submit a one-time certification signed by an authorized representative with the initial shipment of waste or treatment residue of a restricted waste to the land disposal facility. The certification must state: 


(i) A copy of the certification must be placed in the treatment facility's on-site files. If the waste or treatment residue changes, or the receiving facility changes, a new certification must be sent to the receiving facility, and a copy placed in the file. 


(ii) Debris excluded from the definition of hazardous waste under § 261.3(f) of this chapter (*i.e.*, debris treated by an extraction or destruction technology provided by Table 1, § 268.45, and debris that the Director has determined does not contain hazardous waste), however, is subject to the notification and certification requirements of paragraph (d) of this section rather than the certification requirements of this paragraph. 


(iii) For wastes with organic constituents having treatment standards expressed as concentration levels, if compliance with the treatment standards is based in whole or in part on the analytical detection limit alternative specified in § 268.40(d), the certification, signed by an authorized representative, must state the following: 


(iv) For characteristic wastes that are subject to the treatment standards in § 268.40 (other than those expressed as a method of treatment), or § 268.49, and that contain underlying hazardous constituents as defined in § 268.2(i); if these wastes are treated on-site to remove the hazardous characteristic; and are then sent off-site for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents, the certification must state the following:


(v) For characteristic wastes that contain underlying hazardous constituents as defined § 268.2(i) that are treated on-site to remove the hazardous characteristic to treat underlying hazardous constituents to levels in § 268.48 Universal Treatment Standards, the certification must state the following:


(5) If the waste or treatment residue will be further managed at a different treatment, storage, or disposal facility, the treatment, storage, or disposal facility sending the waste or treatment residue off-site must comply with the notice and certification requirements applicable to generators under this section.


(6) Where the wastes are recyclable materials used in a manner constituting disposal subject to the provisions of § 266.20(b) of this chapter regarding treatment standards and prohibition levels, the owner or operator of a treatment facility (*i.e.*, the recycler) must, for the initial shipment of waste, prepare a one-time certification described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, and a one-time notice which includes the information in paragraph (b)(3) of this section (except the manifest number). The certification and notification must be placed in the facility's on-site files. If the waste or the receiving facility changes, a new certification and notification must be prepared and placed in the on site files. In addition, the recycling facility must also keep records of the name and location of each entity receiving the hazardous waste-derived product. 


(c) Except where the owner or operator is disposing of any waste that is a recyclable material used in a manner constituting disposal pursuant to 40 CFR 266.20(b), the owner or operator of any land disposal facility disposing any waste subject to restrictions under this part must:


(1) Have copies of the notice and certifications specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. 


(2) Test the waste, or an extract of the waste or treatment residue developed using test method 1311 (the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure, described in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846 as incorporated by reference in § 260.11 of this chapter), to assure that the wastes or treatment residues are in compliance with the applicable treatment standards set forth in subpart D of this part. Such testing must be performed according to the frequency specified in the facility's waste analysis plan as required by § 264.13 or § 265.13 of this chapter. 


(d) Generators or treaters who first claim that hazardous debris is excluded from the definition of hazardous waste under § 261.3(f) of this chapter (*i.e.*, debris treated by an extraction or destruction technology provided by Table 1, § 268.45, and debris that the EPA Regional Administrator (or his designated representative) or State authorized to implement part 268 requirements has determined does not contain hazardous waste) are subject to the following notification and certification requirements: 


(1) A one-time notification, including the following information, must be submitted to the EPA Regional hazardous waste management division director (or his designated representative) or State authorized to implement part 268 requirements:


(i) The name and address of the Subtitle D facility receiving the treated debris;


(ii) A description of the hazardous debris as initially generated, including the applicable EPA Hazardous Waste Number(s); and


(iii) For debris excluded under § 261.3(f)(1) of this chapter, the technology from Table 1, § 268.45, used to treat the debris.


(2) The notification must be updated if the debris is shipped to a different facility, and, for debris excluded under § 261.2(f)(1) of this chapter, if a different type of debris is treated or if a different technology is used to treat the debris.


(3) For debris excluded under § 261.3(f)(1) of this chapter, the owner or operator of the treatment facility must document and certify compliance with the treatment standards of Table 1, § 268.45, as follows:


(i) Records must be kept of all inspections, evaluations, and analyses of treated debris that are made to determine compliance with the treatment standards;


(ii) Records must be kept of any data or information the treater obtains during treatment of the debris that identifies key operating parameters of the treatment unit; and


(iii) For each shipment of treated debris, a certification of compliance with the treatment standards must be signed by an authorized representative and placed in the facility's files. The certification must state the following: “I certify under penalty of law that the debris has been treated in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 268.45. I am aware that there are significant penalties for making a false certification, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment.”


(e) Generators and treaters who first receive from EPA or an authorized state a determination that a given contaminated soil subject to LDRs as provided in § 268.49(a) no longer contains a listed hazardous waste and generators and treaters who first determine that a contaminated soil subject to LDRs as provided in § 268.49(a) no longer exhibits a characteristic of hazardous waste must:


(1) Prepare a one-time only documentation of these determinations including all supporting information; and,


(2) Maintain that information in the facility files and other records for a minimum of three years.



---

[N] [51 FR 40638, Nov. 7, 1986; 52 FR 21016, June 4, 1987]


