# § 510.610   Waiver of SNF 3-day rule.

(a) *Waiver of the SNF 3-day rule*—(1) *Performance year*—(i) *Performance years 2 through 5.* For episodes being tested in performance years 2 through 5 of the CJR model, CMS waives the SNF 3-day rule for coverage of a SNF stay for a beneficiary who is a CJR beneficiary on the date of discharge from the anchor hospitalization, but only if the SNF is identified on the applicable calendar quarter list of qualified SNFs at the time of the CJR beneficiary's admission to the SNF.


(ii) *Performance years 6 through 8.* (A) For episodes being tested in performance years 6 through 8 of the CJR model, CMS waives the SNF 3-day rule for coverage of a SNF stay within 30 days of the date of discharge from the anchor hospitalization for a beneficiary who is a CJR beneficiary on the date of discharge from the anchor hospitalization, but only if the SNF is identified on the applicable calendar quarter list of qualified SNFs at the time of the CJR beneficiary's admission to the SNF.


(B) For episodes being tested in performance years 6 through 8 of the CJR model, CMS waives the SNF 3-day rule for coverage of a SNF stay within 30 days of the date of service of the anchor procedure for a beneficiary who is a CJR beneficiary on the date of service of the anchor procedure, but only if the SNF is identified on the applicable calendar quarter list of qualified SNFs at the time of the CJR beneficiary's admission to the SNF.


(2) *Determination of qualified SNFs.* CMS determines the qualified SNFs for each calendar quarter based on a review of the most recent rolling 12 months of overall star ratings on the Five-Star Quality Rating System for SNFs on the Nursing Home Compare website. Qualified SNFs are rated an overall of 3 stars or better for at least 7 of the 12 months.


(3) *Posting of qualified SNFs.* CMS posts to the CMS website the list of qualified SNFs in advance of the calendar quarter.


(b) *Financial liability for non-covered SNF services.* If CMS determines that the waiver requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section were not met, the following apply:


(1) CMS makes no payment to a SNF for SNF services if the SNF admits a CJR beneficiary who has not had a qualifying inpatient stay or anchor procedure.


(2) In the event that CMS makes no payment for SNF services furnished by a SNF as a result of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the beneficiary protections specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section apply, unless the participant hospital has provided the beneficiary with a discharge planning notice in accordance with § 510.405(b)(3).


(3) If the participant hospital does not provide the beneficiary with a discharge planning notice in accordance with § 510.405(b)(3)—


(i) The SNF must not charge the beneficiary for the expenses incurred for such services;


(ii) The SNF must return to the beneficiary any monies collected for such services; and


(iii) The participant hospital is financially liable for the expenses incurred for such services.


(4) If the participant hospital provided a discharge planning notice to the beneficiary in accordance with § 510.405(b)(3), then normal SNF coverage requirements apply and the beneficiary may be financially liable for non-covered SNF services.


(c) *Other requirements.* All other Medicare rules for coverage and payment of Part A-covered services continue to apply except as otherwise waived in this part.



---

[N] [82 FR 622, Jan. 3, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 23575, May 3, 2021]




