# ยง 21.4269   Bar to approval.

(a) Beginning on August 1, 2019, a State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in the role of the State approving agency, shall disapprove a program of education provided by an educational institution that has in effect a policy that is inconsistent with any of the following:


(1) A policy that permits any covered individual to attend or participate in the program of education during the period beginning on the date on which the individual provides to the educational institution any verifiable and authoritative VA document demonstrating entitlement to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35 (such as a decision or notice of decision on entitlement, letter from VA, updated award letter from VA, or print-out of eligibility (statement of benefits) from a web-based VA system or beneficiary portal to include verification through VA's secure information technology system in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 3699A if an individual has provided authorization to obtain remaining entitlement information), and ending on the earlier of the following dates:


(i) The date on which payment from VA is made to the institution.


(ii) The date that is 90 days after the date on which the educational institution certifies tuition and fees following receipt of the verifiable and authoritative VA document proving entitlement to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35.


(2) A policy that ensures an educational institution will not impose any penalty, including the assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the requirement that a covered individual borrow additional funds, on any covered individual because of the individual's inability to meet his or her financial obligations to the institution due to the delayed disbursement of a payment to be provided by VA under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35.


(b) For purposes of this section, a covered individual is any individual who is entitled to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35.


(c) The Secretary (or designee) may waive such requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as the Secretary (or designee) considers appropriate. An educational institution must apply for a waiver within 60 days of the SAA determination that an educational institution is not in compliance with paragraph (a).


(d) It shall not be inconsistent with a policy described in paragraph (a) of this section for an educational institution:


(1) To require a covered individual to take the following additional actions:


(i) Submit any verifiable and authoritative VA document to prove entitlement to educational assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35 (as described in paragraph (a)(1)) not later than the first day of a program of education for which the individual has indicated the individual wishes to use the individual's entitlement to educational assistance.


(ii) Submit a written request to use such entitlement.


(iii) Provide additional information necessary to the proper certification of enrollment by the educational institution. If an educational institution intends to require additional information necessary for proper certification of enrollment, any such requirement must be included in the school's published catalog and also must be approved by the State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in the role of the State approving agency, as being necessary for proper certification and not overly burdensome to submit.


(2) In a case in which a covered individual is unable to meet a financial obligation to an educational institution due to the delayed disbursement of a payment to be provided by VA under 38 U.S.C. chapter 31, chapter 33, or chapter 35 and the amount of such disbursement is less than the educational institution anticipated, to require additional payment of or impose a fee for the amount that is the difference between the amount of the financial obligation and the amount of the disbursement.


(i) Such additional payment may include the amount of a financial obligation associated with charges for which VA does not pay benefits (*e.g.,* room and board, any portion of tuition for which a claimant does not qualify).


(ii) An educational institution may utilize its standard debt collection policies for these amounts, including the assessment of late fees.



---

[N] [89 FR 66995, Aug. 19, 2024]




