# § 426.460   Effect of an ALJ's decision.

(a) *Valid under the reasonableness standard.* If the ALJ finds that the provision or provisions of the LCD named in the complaint is (are) valid under the reasonableness standard, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal that (those) part(s) of the ALJ decision to the Board under § 426.465. 


(b) *Not valid under the reasonableness standard.* If the ALJ finds that the provision or provisions of the LCD named in the complaint is (are) invalid under the reasonableness standard, and no appeal is filed by the contractor or CMS under § 426.465(b), the contractor, the M + C organization, or other Medicare managed care organization must provide the following— 


(1) *Individual claim review.* (i) If neither the contractor nor CMS appeals the ALJ decision under § 426.425(b), and if the party's claim or appeal(s) was previously denied, the contractor, an M + C organization or another Medicare managed care organization must reopen the claim of the party who challenged the LCD and adjudicate the claim without using the provision(s) of the LCD that the ALJ found invalid. 


(ii) If a revised LCD is issued, the contractor, the M + C organization, and any other Medicare managed care organization within the contractor's jurisdiction uses the revised LCD in reviewing claim or appeal submissions or request for services delivered or services performed on or after the effective date of the revised LCD. 


(iii) If the aggrieved party who sought the review has not yet submitted a claim, the contractor adjudicates the claim without using the provision(s) of the LCD that the ALJ found invalid. 


(iv) In either case, the claim and any subsequent claims for the service provided under the same circumstances is adjudicated without using the LCD provision(s) found invalid. 


(2) *Coverage determination relief.* If neither the contractor nor CMS appeals the ALJ decision under § 426.425(b), the contractor implements the ALJ decision within 30 days. Any change in policy applies prospectively to requests for service or claims filed with dates of service after the implementation of the ALJ decision. 




