# § 170.102   Confidentiality of information related to premarket notification for a food contact substance (FCN).

(a) During the 120-day period of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review of an FCN, FDA will not disclose publicly any information in that FCN.


(b) FDA will not disclose publicly the information in an FCN that is withdrawn prior to the completion of FDA's review.


(c) Once FDA completes its review of an FCN, the agency will make its conclusion about the FCN publicly available. For example, if FDA objects to a notification 90 days after the date of receipt, the agency would make available its objection at that time.


(d) By submitting an FCN to FDA, the manufacturer or supplier waives any claim to confidentiality of the information required to adequately describe the food contact substance and the intended conditions of use that are the subject of that FCN.


(e) The following data and information are available for public disclosure, unless extraordinary circumstances are shown, on the 121st day after receipt of the notification by FDA, except that no data or information are available for public disclosure if the FCN is withdrawn under § 170.103; and on the date of publication in the _Federal Register_ of an FDA determination that an FCN is no longer effective.


(1) All safety and functionality data and information submitted with or incorporated by reference into the notification, or submitted in reference to an effective FCN. Safety and functionality data include all studies and tests of a food contact substance on animals and humans and all studies and tests on a food contact substance for establishing identity, stability, purity, potency, performance, and usefulness.


(2) A protocol for a test or study, unless it is exempt from disclosure under § 20.61 of this chapter.


(3) A list of all ingredients contained in a food contact substance, excluding information that is exempt from disclosure under § 20.61 of this chapter. Where applicable, an ingredient list will be identified as incomplete.


(4) An assay method or other analytical method, unless it serves no regulatory or compliance purpose and is exempt from disclosure under § 20.61 of this chapter.


(5) All correspondence and written summaries of oral discussions relating to the notification or to FDA's determination that an FCN is no longer effective, except information that is exempt under § 20.61 of this chapter.


(6) All other information not subject to an exemption from disclosure under subpart D of part 20 of this chapter.



---

[N] [67 FR 35729, May 21, 2002, as amended by 89 FR 20315, Mar. 22, 2024]




