# § 305.3   Description of appliances and consumer electronics.

(a) *Refrigerators and refrigerator-freezers*—(1) *Electric refrigerator* means a cabinet designed for the refrigerated storage of food, designed to be capable of achieving storage temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C), and having a source of refrigeration requiring single phase, alternating current electric energy input only. An electric refrigerator may include a compartment for the freezing and storage of food at temperatures below 32 °F (0 °C), but does not provide a separate low temperature compartment designed for the freezing and storage of food at temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C).


(2) *Electric refrigerator-freezer* means a cabinet which consists of two or more compartments with at least one of the compartments designed for the refrigerated storage of food and designed to be capable of achieving storage temperatures above 32 °F (0 °C) and below 39 °F (3.9 °C), and with at least one of the compartments designed for the freezing and storage of food at temperatures below 8 °F (−13.3 °C) which may be adjusted by the user to a temperature of 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below. The source of refrigeration requires single phase, alternating current electric energy input only.


(b) *Freezer* means a cabinet designed as a unit for the freezing and storage of food at temperatures of 0 °F or below, and having a source of refrigeration requiring single phase, alternating current electric energy input only.


(c) *Dishwasher* means a cabinet-like appliance which, with the aid of water and detergent, washes, rinses, and dries (when a drying process is included) dishware, glassware, eating utensils and most cooking utensils by chemical, mechanical, and/or electrical means and discharges to the plumbing drainage system.


(1) *Water heating dishwasher* means a dishwasher which is designed for heating cold inlet water (nominal 50 °F) or a dishwasher for which the manufacturer recommends operation with a nominal inlet water temperature of 120 °F and may operate at either of these inlet water temperatures by providing internal water heating to above 120 °F in at least one wash phase of the normal cycle.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Water heater* means a product which utilizes oil, gas, or electricity to heat potable water for use outside the heater upon demand, including—


(1) Storage type units which heat and store water at a thermostatically controlled temperature, including gas storage water heaters with an input of 75,000 Btu per hour or less, oil storage water heaters with an input of 105,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric storage water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less;


(2) Instantaneous type units that heat water but contain no more than one gallon of water per 4,000 Btu per hour of input, including gas instantaneous water heaters with an input of 200,000 Btu per hour or less, oil instantaneous water heaters with an input of 210,000 Btu per hour or less, and electric instantaneous water heaters with an input of 12 kilowatts or less; and


(3) Heat pump type units, with a maximum current rating of 24 amperes at a voltage no greater than 250 volts, which are products designed to transfer thermal energy from one temperature level to a higher temperature level for the purpose of heating water, including all ancillary equipment such as fans, storage tanks, pumps, or controls necessary for the device to perform its function.


(e) *Room air conditioner* means a consumer product, other than a packaged terminal air conditioner, which is powered by a single phase electric current and which is an encased assembly designed as a unit for mounting in a window or through the wall for the purpose of providing delivery of conditioned air to an enclosed space. It includes a prime source of refrigeration and may include a means for ventilating and heating.


(f) *Clothes washer* means a consumer product designed to clean clothes, utilizing a water solution of soap and/or detergent and mechanical agitation or other movement, and must be one of the following classes: Automatic clothes washers, semi-automatic clothes washers, and other clothes washers.


(1) *Automatic clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer which has a control system capable of scheduling a pre-selected combination of operations, such as regulation of water fill level, and performance of wash, rinse, drain and spin functions, without the need for the user to intervene subsequent to the initiation of machine operation. Some models may require user intervention to initiate these different segments of the cycle after the machine has begun operation, but they do not require the user to intervene to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves.


(2) *Semi-automatic clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer that is the same as an automatic clothes washer except that the user must intervene to regulate the water temperature by adjusting the external water faucet valves.


(3) *Other clothes washer* means a class of clothes washer that is not an automatic or semi-automatic clothes washer.


(g) *Ceiling fan* means a nonportable device that is suspended from a ceiling for circulating air via the rotation of fan blades, excluding large-diameter and high-speed small diameter fans as defined in appendix U of subpart B of 10 CFR part 430. The requirements of this part are otherwise limited to those ceiling fans for which the Department of Energy has adopted and published test procedures for measuring energy usage.


(h) *Television* means a product that is designed to produce dynamic video, contains an internal TV tuner encased within the product housing, and is capable of receiving dynamic visual content from wired or wireless sources including but not limited to: Broadcast and similar services for terrestrial, cable, satellite, and/or broadband transmission of analog and/or digital signals; and/or display-specific data connections, such as HDMI, Component video, S-video, Composite video; and/or media storage devices such as a USB flash drive, memory card, or a DVD; and/or network connections, usually using internet Protocol, typically carried over Ethernet or Wi-Fi. The requirements of this part are limited to those televisions for which the Department of Energy has adopted and published test procedures for measuring energy use.


(i) *Pool heater* means an appliance designed for heating nonpotable water contained at atmospheric pressure, including heating water in swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and similar applications.


(j) *Portable air conditioner* means a portable encased assembly, other than a packaged terminal air conditioner, room air conditioner, or dehumidifier, that delivers cooled, conditioned air to an enclosed space, and is powered by single-phase electric current. It includes a source of refrigeration and may include additional means for air circulation and heating.



---

[N] [84 FR 58028, Oct. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 9282, Feb. 12, 2021]

	


