# § 1726.176   Communications and control facilities.

This section covers the purchase of microwave, fiber, power line carrier, and other communications technologies or systems, including load control and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, automated meter reading/automated metering infrastructure (AMR/AMI), or other smart grid technologies. Mobile radio systems are covered as general plant materials in § 1726.175.


(a) *Power line carrier systems.* Power line carrier equipment will frequently be purchased as part of a substation and will be included in the complete substation plans and specifications. When purchased in this manner, the requirements of subpart C of this part, Substation and Transmission Facilities, will apply. If obtained under a contract for only a power line carrier system, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply.


(b) *Load control systems, communications systems, and SCADA systems*—(1) *Contract forms.* The borrower must use RUS Form 786, Electric System Communication and Control Equipment Contract. This form may be modified to be a “purchase only” contract form.


(2) *Procurement procedures.* (i) It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs to award contracts not requiring RUS approval in amounts of up to a cumulative total of $1,000,000 or four percent of NUP, whichever is greater, per calendar year of communications and control facilities construction (including minor modifications or improvements), exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment.


(ii) The borrower must use multiparty negotiation for all other communications and control facilities contract construction, including all contracts requiring RUS approval. The amount of contracts bid using the multiparty negotiation procedure do not apply to the cumulative total stipulated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) An amendment which increases the scope by adding a project is not considered competitively bid, therefore, the amount of that amendment does apply to the cumulative total stipulated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Contract approval.* Individual contracts in amounts of $1,000,000 or more or four percent of NUP, whichever is greater, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment, are subject to RUS approval.



---

[N] [60 FR 10155, Feb. 23, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 3072, Jan. 23, 2012; 86 FR 36198, July 9, 2021; 89 FR 17275, Mar. 11, 2024]




