# § 136.240   Permit to proceed.

Permission to proceed to another port for repairs (Form CG-948) may be required for a towing vessel that is no longer in compliance with its COI. This permission may be necessary in certain situations, including damage to the vessel, failure of an essential system, or failure to comply with a regulation, including failure to comply with the TSMS requirements, if appropriate.


(a) *What a vessel with a TSMS must do before proceeding to another port for repairs.* A vessel with a TSMS may proceed to another port for repair, if:


(1) In the judgment of the owner, managing operator, or master, the trip can be completed safely;


(2) The TSMS addresses the condition of the vessel that has resulted in non-compliance and the necessary conditions under which the vessel may safely proceed to another port for repair;


(3) The vessel proceeds as provided in the TSMS and does not tow while proceeding, unless the owner or managing operator determines that it is safe to do so; and


(4) The owner or managing operator notifies the cognizant OCMI in whose zone the non-compliance occurred or is discovered, before the vessel proceeds. The owner or operator must also notify the cognizant OCMI in any other OCMI zones through which the vessel will transit.


(b) *What another vessel must do before proceeding to another port for repairs.* If a vessel does not have a TSMS, or a vessel has one but it does not address the condition of the vessel that has resulted in non-compliance or the necessary conditions under which the vessel may safely proceed to another port for repair, the owner, managing operator, or master must request permission to proceed from the cognizant OCMI in whose zone the non-compliance occurs or is discovered. This permission operates as follows:


(1) The request for permission to proceed may be made electronically, in writing, or orally. The cognizant OCMI may require a written description, a damage survey, or other documentation to assist in determining the nature and seriousness of the non-compliance.


(2) The vessel will not engage in towing, unless the cognizant OCMI determines it is safe to do so.


(3) The Coast Guard may issue the permit either on Form CG-948, “Permit to Proceed to Another Port for Repairs,” or in letter form, and will state the conditions under which the vessel may proceed to another port for repair.


(c) *Inspection or examination.* The cognizant OCMI may require an inspection of the vessel by a Coast Guard Marine Inspector or an examination by a surveyor from a TPO prior to the vessel proceeding.




