# § 55.5   Communications.

(a) Except as provided under a regional licensing program identified in paragraph (b) of this section, an applicant or licensee or facility licensee shall submit any communication or report concerning the regulations in this part and shall submit any application filed under these regulations to the Commission as follows: 


(1) By mail addressed to—Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; or


(2) By delivery in person to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, or 


(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html*; by e-mail to *MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov*; or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. 


(b)(1) The Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, has delegated to the Regional Administrators of Regions I, II, III, and IV authority and responsibility under the regulations in this part for the issuance and renewal of licenses for operators and senior operators of nuclear power reactors licensed under 10 CFR part 50 or part 52 of this chapter and located in these regions.


(2) Any application for a license or license renewal filed under the regulations in this part involving a nuclear power reactor licensed under 10 CFR part 50 or part 52 of this chapter and any related inquiry, communication, information, or report must be submitted to the Regional Administrator by an appropriate method listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The Regional Administrator or the Administrator's designee will transmit to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, any matter that is not within the scope of the Regional Administrator's delegated authority.


(i) If the nuclear power reactor is located in Region I, submissions must be made to the Regional Administrator of Region I. Submissions by mail or hand delivery must be addressed to the Administrator at U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.*

(ii) If the nuclear power reactor is located in Region II, submissions must be made to the Regional Administrator of Region II. Submissions by mail or hand delivery must be addressed to the Regional Administrator at U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 245 Peachtree Center Avenue, NE., Suite 1200, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-1257. Where e-mail is appropriate, it should be addressed to *RidsRgn2MailCenter@nrc.gov.*

(iii) If the nuclear power reactor is located in Region III, submissions must be made to the Regional Administrator of Region III. Submissions by mail or hand delivery must be addressed to the Administrator at U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to *RidsRgn3MailCenter@nrc.gov.*

(iv) If the nuclear power reactor is located in Region IV, submissions must be made to the Regional Administrator of Region IV. Submission by mail or hand delivery must be addressed to the Administrator at U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to *RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.*

(3) Any application for a license or license renewal filed under the regulations in this part and all other submissions involving a utilization facility licensed under part 50 of this chapter that is not a power reactor and any related inquiry, communication, information, or report must be submitted to the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Director of the Division of Advanced Reactors and Non-Power Production and Utilization Facilities at the NRC's headquarters, by an appropriate method listed in paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [52 FR 9460, Mar. 25, 1987, as amended at 89 FR 106252, Dec. 30, 2024]


