# § 416.310   Data collection and submission requirements under the ASCQR Program.

(a)* Requirements for claims-based measures using quality data codes (QDCs).* (1) ASCs must submit complete data on individual claims-based quality measures through a claims-based reporting mechanism by submitting the appropriate QDCs on the ASC's Medicare claims.


(2) The data collection period for claims-based quality measures reported using QDCs is the calendar year 2 years prior to the payment determination year. Only claims for services furnished in each calendar year paid by the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) by April 30 of the following year of the ending data collection period will be included in the data used for the payment determination year.


(3) For ASCQR Program purposes, data completeness for claims-based measures using QDCs is determined by comparing the number of Medicare claims (where Medicare is the primary or secondary payer) meeting measure specifications that contain the appropriate QDCs with the number of Medicare claims that meet measure specifications, but do not have the appropriate QDCs on the submitted Medicare claim. The minimum threshold for successful reporting is that at least 50 percent of Medicare claims meeting measure specifications contain the appropriate QDCs. ASCs that meet this minimum threshold are regarded as having provided complete data for the claims-based measures using QDCs for the ASCQR Program.


(b) *Requirements for claims-based measures not using QDCs.* The data collection period for claims-based quality measures not using QDCs is paid Medicare fee-for-service claims from the calendar year 2 years prior to the payment determination year. Only claims for services furnished in each calendar year paid by the MAC by April 30 of the following year of the ending data collection period will be included in the data used for the payment determination.


(c) *Requirements for data submitted via an online data submission tool*—(1) *Requirements for data submitted via a CMS online data submission tool*—(i) *CMS-designated information system account for web-based measures.* ASCs, and any agents submitting data on an ASC's behalf, must maintain an account for the CMS-designated information system in order to submit quality measure data to the CMS-designated information system for all web-based measures submitted via a CMS online data submission tool. A security official is necessary to set up such an account for the CMS-designated information system for the purpose of submitting this information.


(ii) *Data collection requirements.* The data collection period for quality measures for which data are submitted via a CMS online data submission tool is for services furnished during the calendar year 2 years prior to the payment determination year. Beginning with the CY 2017 payment determination year, data collected must be submitted during the period of January 1 to May 15 in the year prior to the payment determination year.


(iii) *Review and corrections period.* For measures submitted to CMS via a CMS online tool, ASCs have a review and corrections period, which runs concurrently with the data submission period. During this timeframe, ASCs can enter, review, and correct data submitted. After the submission deadline, this data cannot be changed.


(2) *Requirements for data submitted via a non-CMS online data submission tool*. The data collection period for ASC-8: Influenza Vaccination Coverage Among Healthcare Personnel is from October 1 of the year 2 years prior to the payment determination year to March 31 during the year prior to the payment determination year. Data collected must be submitted by May 15 in the year prior to the payment determination year.


(d) *Extraordinary circumstances exceptions.* CMS may grant an exception with respect to quality data reporting requirements in the event of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the hospital, such as when an act of nature affects an entire region or if CMS determines that a systemic problem with one of its data collection systems directly affected the ability of the hospitals to submit data. CMS may grant an exception as follows:


(1) *Upon request of the ASC.* Specific requirements for submission of a request for an exception are available on the CMS website.


(2) *At the discretion of CMS.* CMS may grant exceptions to ASCs that have not requested them when CMS determines that an extraordinary circumstance has occurred.


(e) *Requirements for Outpatient and Ambulatory Surgery Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (OAS CAHPS) Survey.* OAS CAHPS is the Outpatient and Ambulatory Surgical Center Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems survey that measures patient experience of care after a recent surgery or procedure at either a hospital outpatient department or an ambulatory surgical center. Ambulatory surgical centers must use an approved OAS CAHPS survey vendor to administer and submit OAS CAHPS data to CMS.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) CMS approves an application for an entity to administer the OAS CAHPS survey as a vendor on behalf of one or more ambulatory surgical centers when the applicant has met the Minimum Survey Requirements and Rules of Participation that can be found on the official OAS CAHPS Web site, and agrees to comply with the current survey administration protocols that can be found on the official OAS CAHPS Web site. An entity must be an approved OAS CAHPS Survey vendor in order to administer the OAS CAPHS Survey and submit data to CMS on behalf of one or more ambulatory surgical centers.


(f) *Data submission deadlines.* All deadlines occurring on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, or on any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonwork day for Federal employees by statute or Executive order are extended to the first day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonwork day for Federal employees by statute or Executive order.



---

[N] [80 FR 70604, Nov. 13, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 79879, Nov. 14, 2016; 82 FR 52636, Nov. 13, 2017; 82 FR 59496, Dec. 14, 2017; 85 FR 86302, Dec. 29, 2020; 88 FR 82179, Nov. 22, 2023]




