# § 292.14   Verification requirements.

(a) Summer EBT applications are subject to the following verification requirements:


(1) *Verification for cause.* (i) The Summer EBT agency must verify for cause applications, on a case-by-case basis, such as in an instance when the agency is aware of conflicting or inconsistent information from what was provided on the application.


(ii) The Summer EBT agency may verify an application for cause at any time during the instructional year or summer operational period, but verification must be completed within 30 days of receipt of the application.


(iii) Applications verified for cause are not considered part of three (3) percent sample size described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(iv) Applications do not need to be selected for verification for cause during initial application processing. A Summer EBT agency may become aware of a questionable application after the initial certification was completed and benefits were issued. In this case, the Summer EBT agency must verify the application for cause at the time they learn of the questionable or conflicting information.


(v) All verification procedures in this section must be followed for applications selected for verification for cause in the same manner as an application randomly selected as part of the sample described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Verification sample.* (i) The Summer EBT agency must verify eligibility of children in a sample of household Summer EBT applications approved for benefits for the summer.


(ii) The sample size for the Summer EBT agency must equal three (3) percent of all applications approved by the Summer EBT agency from the start of the instructional year through April 1 of the school year immediately preceding the summer operational period, selected randomly from all applications.


(3) *Verification alternatives.* (i) In lieu of carrying out provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, Summer EBT agencies may propose alternative methods for verification that strengthen program integrity and preserve participant access.


(ii) Summer EBT agencies that intend to propose alternative procedures must include a detailed description of their plan in their POM submission. Proposals are subject to USDA approval.


(b) *Replacing applications.* The Summer EBT agency may, on a case-by-case basis, replace up to ten percent of applications that are randomly selected as part of the verification sample. Applications may be replaced if the Summer EBT agency determines that the household would be unable to satisfactorily respond to the verification request.


(c) *Rolling verification sample selection. Summer EBT agencies may choose to conduct verification on a rolling basis, as long as the sample size requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section are met.* (1) If conducting rolling verification, the Summer EBT agency must:


(i)(A) Include in each sample pool only applications approved since the last sample was selected; and


(B) Select three (3) percent of approved applications, as required by the sampling method, each time, but round down to the nearest whole number to prevent over-sampling. If rounding down results in a zero, no applications should be verified for the sample period, and the applications received in that sample period should be included in the next sample pool.


(ii) Select the final sample on April 1.


(A) Selecting only from the applications approved since the last sampling;


(B) Summing the number of applications selected for verification to date (including the final, April 1 sample); and


(C) Calculating three (3) percent of all applications approved as of April 1, and rounding up to the next whole number.


(2) If the number of applications summed per paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section is less than the three (3) percent calculated per paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, the Summer EBT agency must fill the remainder of the sample by selecting randomly from all applications.


(3) Summer EBT agencies may choose to sample at any frequency prior to April 1, but may not sample any applications after April 1.


(d) *Verification after April 1.* Applications that come in after April 1 are still subject to verification for cause, on a case-by-case basis, per paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(e) *Direct verification.* Summer EBT agencies must conduct direct verification activities with the programs eligible for use in streamlined certification, as defined in § 292.12(d), as well as records from other assistance programs and administrative data, where available. Data records are subject to the timeframe specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(1) Direct verification must be conducted prior to contacting the household for documentation.


(2) For the purposes of direct verification, documentation may indicate participation in an applicable program or income at any point during the period of eligibility. The information provided only needs to indicate eligibility at a single point in time during the period of eligibility, not that the child was eligible at the time of application or verification.


(3) Summer EBT agencies must include in their POM submission all sources of administrative data that is intended to be used for direct verification.


(f) *Verification procedures and assistance for households*—(1) *Exceptions from verification.* Verification is not required of households if all children in the household are determined eligible based on documentation provided by the State or local agency responsible for the administration of the SNAP, FDPIR, TANF, or another means tested program, as approved by the Secretary, or if all children in the household are determined to be foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway, as defined in § 245.2 of this chapter.


(2) *Notification of selection.* Households selected for verification must be notified in writing that their applications were selected for verification. The written statement must include a telephone number to contact for assistance. Any communications with households concerning verification must be in an understandable and uniform format and, to the maximum extent practicable, in a language that parents and guardians can understand. These households must be advised of the type of information or documents that will be expected. Households selected for verification must be informed that:


(i) They are required to submit the requested information to verify eligibility for Summer EBT benefits, by the date determined by the Summer EBT agency.


(ii) They may, instead, submit proof that the children receive assistance under SNAP, FDPIR, TANF, or another means tested program, as approved by the Secretary.


(iii) They may, instead, request that the Summer EBT agency contact the appropriate officials to confirm that their children are foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway.


(iv) Failure to cooperate with verification efforts will result in the termination of benefits.


(3) *Sources of information.* For the purposes of this section, sources of information for verification may include, but are not limited to, written evidence, individuals outside of the child's household who can verify the child's circumstances, and systems of records as follows:


(i) Written evidence must be used as the primary source of information for verification. Written evidence includes written confirmation of a household's circumstances, such as wage stubs, award letters, and letters from employers. Whenever written evidence is insufficient to confirm income information on the application or current eligibility, the verifying agency may require confirmation from a person outside of the child's household, or accept a statement from an adult member of the child's household.


(ii) Verbal confirmations of a household's circumstances by a person outside of the household may be made in person or by phone. The verifying official may select a person to contact if the household fails to designate one or designates one which is unacceptable to the verifying official. If the verifying official designates a person, contact must not be made without providing written or oral notice to the household. At the time of this notice, the household must be informed that it may consent to the contact or provide acceptable documentation in another form. If the household refuses to choose one of these options, its eligibility must be terminated in accordance with the normal procedures for failure to cooperate with verification efforts. Individuals outside of the child's household who can verify the child's circumstances could include but are not limited to: employers, social service agencies, school officials, and migrant agencies.


(iii) Agency records to which the verifying agency may have access are not considered to be the same as a person outside of the child's household who can verify their circumstances. Information concerning income, household size, or SNAP, FDPIR, or TANF eligibility, maintained by other government agencies to which the verifying agency can legally gain access, must be used to confirm a household's income, size, or receipt of benefits, as applicable. Information may also be obtained from individuals or agencies serving categorically eligible children, as defined in § 292.2, including foster, homeless, migrant, or runaway children.


(iv) Households which dispute the validity of income information acquired through an individual outside of the child's household or a system of records must be given the opportunity to provide other documentation.


(4) *Documentation timeframe.* Households selected and notified of their selection for verification must provide documentation of income. The documentation must indicate the source, amount and frequency of all household income and may indicate eligibility at any point during the period of eligibility. The information provided only needs to indicate eligibility for participation in the program at a single point in time during the period of eligibility, not that the child was certified for that program's benefits at the time of application or verification.


(5) *Household cooperation.* If a household refuses to cooperate with efforts to verify, eligibility for Summer EBT benefits must be terminated.


(6) *Telephone assistance.* The Summer EBT agency must provide a telephone number to households selected for verification to call free of charge to obtain information about the verification process. The telephone number must be prominently displayed on the letter to households selected for verification.


(7) *Follow-up attempts.* The Summer EBT agency must make at least two attempts, at least one week apart, to contact any household that does not respond to a verification request. The attempt may be through a telephone call, email, or mail, and must be documented. Non-response to the initial request for verification includes no response and incomplete or ambiguous responses that do not permit the Summer EBT agency to resolve the children's eligibility for Summer EBT benefits.


(8) *Eligibility changes.* The Summer EBT agency must complete the following activities if there is an eligibility change as a result of verification:


(i) Make appropriate modifications to the initial eligibility determinations.


(ii) Notify the household of any change in eligibility as a result of verification.


(iii)(A) The notice must advise the household of:


(*1*) The change;


(*2*) The reasons for the change;


(*3*) Notification of the right to appeal and when the appeal must be filed;


(*4*) Instructions on how to appeal; and


(*5*) The right to reapply at any time during the instructional year or summer operational period.


(B) Properly document and retain on file at the Summer EBT agency the reasons for ineligibility.


(9) *Issuance of benefits.* Benefits cannot be issued for applications selected for verification until the verification process is completed with the exception of verification for cause, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(10) *Timing of verification for continuous school calendars.* In the case of children who are enrolled in a school operating on a continuous school calendar, the Summer EBT agency must receive approval from USDA for any alternative plans for the timing of conducting verification, in accordance with the State or ITO's approved POM.


(11) *Verification after benefit issuance.* If a Summer EBT agency is alerted to a questionable application after initial approval or issuance of benefits, no further benefits should be issued until verification for cause, as outlined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is complete and eligibility is confirmed.


(12) *Nondiscrimination.* The verification efforts must be applied without regard to race, sex, color, national origin, age, or disability.


(g) *Verification of alternative income applications in 2024.* In 2024, Summer EBT agencies or LEAs should, on a case-by-case basis, verify for cause any questionable Summer EBT application or alternate income applications used to confer Summer EBT eligibility and follow the procedures in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.




