# ยง 90.2   Definitions.

*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry or designee.


*ATSDR* means the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, Public Health Service, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


*CERCLA* means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.,* Pub. L. 96-520), as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-499).


*EPA* means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


*Facility* is defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(9).


*Hazardous substance* is defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(14). In addition, the term includes any pollutant or contaminant which the Administrator determines is appropriate for the purposes of carrying out his or her responsibilities under CERCLA.


*Health assessment* means the evaluation of data and information on the release of hazardous substances into the environment in order to assess any current or future impact on public health, develop health advisories or other recommendations, and identify studies or actions needed to evaluate and mitigate or prevent human health effects.


*Health effects study* means research, investigation, or study performed by ATSDR or other parties pursuant to an agreement with ATSDR to evaluate the health effects of exposure to hazardous substances at specific sites. This term includes, but is not limited to, epidemiological studies, exposure and disease registries, and health surveillance programs. This term does not include health assessments.


*Owner or operator* is defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(20).


*Peer review* means review for scientific quality by a panel consisting of no less than three nor more than seven members, who shall be disinterested scientific experts selected by the Administrator of ATSDR on the basis of their reputation for scientific objectivity and the lack of institutional ties with any person involved in the conduct of the study or research under review.


*Person* means an individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, consortium, joint venture, commercial entity, United States Government, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, or any interstate body.


*Pollutant or contaminant* is defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(33).


*Public health advisory* is a statement by ATSDR containing a finding that a release poses a significant risk to human health and recommending measures to be taken to reduce exposure and eliminate or substantially mitigate the significant risk to human health.


*Release* is defined in 42 U.S.C. 9601(22).




