# § 200.946   Building product standards and certification program for exterior finish and insulation systems, use of Materials Bulletin UM 101.

(a) *Applicable standards:* (1) All Exterior Finish and Insulation Systems shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following standards: 


(i) ASCE 7-93, American Society of Civil Engineers—Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures. 


(ii) ASTM C 150-94 Standard Specification for Portland Cement. 


(iii) ASTM C 920-87 Standard Specification for Elastomeric Joint Sealants. 


(iv) ASTM C-1186-91 Standard Specification for Flat Non-Asbestos Fiber-Cement Sheets. 


(v) ASTM D 579-90 Standard Specification for Greige Woven Glass Fabrics. 


(vi) ASTM D 3273-86—(Reapproved 1991) Standard Test Method for Resistance to Growth of Mold on the Surface of Interior Coatings in an Environmental Chamber. 


(vii) ASTM E 330-90 Standard Test Method for Structural Performance of Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, and Doors by Uniform Static Air Pressure Difference. 


(viii) ASTM E 695-79 (Reapproved 1991), Standard Method of Measuring Relative Resistance of Wall, Floor, and Roof Construction to Impact Loading. 


(ix) ASTM G 26-93 Standard Practice for Operating Light-Exposure Apparatus (Xenon-Arc Type) With and Without Water for Exposure of Nonmetallic Materials. 


(x) Council of American Building Officials, Model Energy Code, 1993 Edition. 


(xi) EIMA Test Method 101.01-95 (modified ASTM C67-91) Standard Test Method for Freeze/Thaw Resistance of Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB. 


(xii) EIMA Test Method 101.02-95 (modified ASTM E331-91)—Standard Test Method for Resistance to Water Penetration of Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB. 


(xiii) EIMA Test Method 101.03-95 (modified ASTM C297-91)—Standard Test Method for Determining the Tensile Adhesion Strength of an Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS), Class PB. 


(xiv) EIMA Test Method 105.01-95—Standard Test Method for Alkali Resistance of Glass Fiber Reinforcing Mesh for Use in Exterior Insulation and Finish Systems (EIFS), Class PB. 


(xv) European Agreement Union Technical Committee—June 88—UEAtc Directives for the Assessment of External Insulation System for Walls (Expanded Polystyrene Insulation Faced with a Thin Rendering) Section 3.3.3.3. 


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. They are available from: 


(i) American Society Civil Engineers (ASCE) 345 East 47th Street, New York, NY 10017. 


(ii) American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103; 


(iii) Council of American Building Officials, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, Virginia 22041; 


(iv) EAUTC Centre Scientifique ET Technique Du Batiment (CSTB), 84 Avenue Jesu Jaures, B.P. 02-77421 Marne-LA-Valee Cedex 2, Paris, France. 


(v) Exterior Insulation Manufacturers Association (EIMA), 2759 State Road 580, Suite 112, Clearwater, Florida 34621-3350. 


(3) The standards are available also for inspection at the Office of Manufactured Housing and Regulatory Functions, Standards and Products Branch, Department of Housing and Urban Development, room 3214, L'Enfant Plaza, 490E, Mail Room B-133, Washington, DC 20410-8000, and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures as set forth in § 200.935(d)(6), concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applied standard is required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturers. In the case of exterior wall insulation and finish systems, the certification label containing the administrator's mark shall be permanently affixed on the package or container of base and finish coating materials. Further, additional information shall be included on the certification label or mark: 


(1) Manufacturer's name. 


(2) Manufacturer's statement of conformance with UM 101. 


(c) The Administrator shall visit the manufacturer's or sponsor's facility every 6 months, to assure that the initially accepted quality assurance procedures are being followed. At least every four years, the Administrator also shall have the exterior wall insulation and finish systems tested in an approved laboratory to assure that the original performance is maintained. 


(d) The administrator's (or administration-accepted inspection agency) inspection of EFIS system installation of 5000 sq. ft. or more, shall be made during and upon completion of the construction. Reports of the inspection shall be made to the owner. These reports shall state: 


(1) The coverage of the finish coat per square foot for a given volume of finish. 


(2) The minimum thickness of the base and finish coatings. 


(3) The fiberglass mesh is installed properly around joints and insulation. All penetrations, including windows, flashing, etc., are sealed; and there is a caulk and sealant continuity evaluation; and 


(4) There is a caulk and sealant continuity evaluation with special concerns on maintenance. 


(e) The manufacturer shall warrant their exterior wall insulation and finish system, including any caulks and sealants, for twenty years against faulty performance. The warranty shall include correction of delamination, chipping, denting, peeling, blistering, flaking, bulging, unsightly discoloration, or other serious deterioration of the system such as the intrusion of water through the wall or structural failure of the system's surface materials. Should any of these defects occur, the manufacturer shall make a pro-rata allowance for replacement or pay the owner the amount of the allowance. The manufacturer shall not be liable for damages or defects resulting from misuse, natural catastrophes, or other causes beyond the control of the manufacturer. The contractor shall provide a statement to the owner that the product has been installed in compliance with HUD requirements and that the manufacturer's warranty does not relieve the builder, in any way, of responsibility under the terms of the Builder's Warranty required by the National Housing Act, or under any other housing program.



---

[N] [60 FR 47841, Sept. 14, 1995]




