# ยง 229.50   Age reduction in employee or spouse benefit.

(a) *When age reduction applies.* The employee overall minimum benefit is reduced for each month the employee is under retirement age on the date the employee becomes eligible for an increase under the overall minimum, as shown in ยง 229.22 of this part, unless the employee has a period of disability and ยง 229.52 of this part does not apply, in which case no age reduction is applied. The spouse overall minimum benefit is reduced for each month a spouse, who is not a spouse with the employee's child under 16 years old or disabled before attaining age 22 in his or her care, is under retirement age on the date the spouse is eligible for an increase under the overall minimum (see ยง 229.21 of this part). If a spouse's overall minimum benefit is reduced for age and he or she later begins caring for an eligible child, no age reduction will apply for the months the child is in his or her care.


(b) *Employee age reduction.* The Overall Minimum PIA plus any delayed retirement credits is reduced by 
1/180 for each month the employee is under retirement age on the date the employee becomes eligible for the overall minimum. When the PIA amount is increased, the amount of the increase is reduced by 
1/180 for the same number of months used to determine the initial age reduction.


(c) *Spouse age reduction.* The amount of the spouse overall minimum benefit, after any adjustment for the family maximum, is reduced by 
1/144 for each month the spouse is under retirement age on the date when he or she becomes eligible under the overall minimum. When the spouse benefit increases, the amount of the increase is reduced by 
1/144 for the same number of months used to compute the initial age reduction.


(d) *Age reduction after 1999.* Beginning in the year 2000 the amount of age reduction shall be as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for the first 36 months of the reduction period, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, and 
1/240 for any additional months included in such period.


(e) *Reduction period defined.* The reduction period is the number of months beginning with the first month for which the O/M is payable and ending with the month before the month the beneficiary attains retirement age.




