# ยง 262.3   Definitions.

*Administrator* means the Federal Railroad Administrator, or his or her delegate.


*Allowable costs* means those project costs for which Federal funding may be expended under this part. Only construction and construction-related costs will be allowable.


*Construction* means supervising, inspecting, demolition, actually building, and incurring all costs incidental to building a project described in ยง 262.9 of this part, including bond costs and other costs related to the issuance of bonds or other debt financing instruments and costs incurred by the Grantee in performing project related audits, and includes:


(1) Locating, surveying, and mapping;


(2) Track and related structure installation, restoration, and rehabilitation;


(3) Acquisition of rights-of-way;


(4) Relocation assistance, acquisition of replacement housing sites, and acquisition and rehabilitation, relocation, and construction of replacement housing;


(5) Elimination of obstacles and relocation of utilities; and


(6) Any other activities as defined by FRA, including architectural and engineering costs, and costs associated with compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act, National Historic Preservation Act, and related statutes, regulations, and orders.


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration.


*Improvement* means repair or enhancement to existing rail infrastructure, or construction of new rail infrastructure, that results in improvements to the efficiency of the rail system and the safety of those affected by the system.


*Non-federal share* means the portion of the allowable cost of the local rail line relocation or improvement project that is being paid for through cash or in-kind contributions by a State or other non-Federal entity or any combination thereof.


*Private entity* means any domestic or foreign nongovernmental for-profit or not-for-profit organization.


*Project* means the local rail line relocation or improvement for which a grant is requested under this section.


*Quality of life* means the level of social, environmental and economic satisfaction and well being a community experiences, and includes factors such as first responders' emergency response time, impact on emergency services, accessibility to the disabled as required under the Americans with Disabilities Act and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (as amended), school access, safety, traffic delay and congestion, the environment, grade crossing safety, and noise levels.


*Real property* means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, excluding movable machinery and equipment.


*Relocation* means moving a rail line vertically or laterally to a new location. Vertical relocation refers to raising above the current ground level or sinking below the current ground level a rail line. Lateral relocation refers to moving a rail line horizontally to a new location.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation.


*State* except as used in ยง 262.17, means any of the fifty United States, a political subdivision of a State, and the District of Columbia. In ยง 262.17, *State* means any of the fifty United States and the District of Columbia.


*Tangible personal property* means property, other than real property, that has a physical existence and an intrinsic value, including machinery, equipment and vehicles.




