# § 721.10077   3H-1,2,4-Triazol-3-one, 1,2-dihydro-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 3H-1,2,4-triazol-3-one, 1,2-dihydro- (PMNs P-06-1 and P-06-166; CAS No. 930-33-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b), and (c). Respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor of at least 10. The following NIOSH-approved respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of 10-25 meet the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): Air-purifying, tight-fitting respirator equipped with N100 (if aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters (either half- or full-face); powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters; powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face) and HEPA filters; and supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet or tight-fitting facepiece (either half- or full-face).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(4)(iii).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 53485, Sept. 19, 2007]




