# ยง 1027.150   What definitions apply to this part?

The definitions in this section apply to this part. As used in this part, all undefined terms have the meaning the Act or the standard-setting part gives to them. The definitions follow:


*Application for Certification* means a manufacturer's submission of an application for certification.


*California-only certificate* is a certificate of conformity issued by EPA showing compliance with emission standards established by California.


*Federal certificate* is a certificate of conformity issued by EPA showing compliance with EPA emission standards specified in one of the standard-setting parts specified in ยง 1027.101(a).


*Light-duty* means relating to light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks.


*Manufacturer* has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures an engine, vehicle, vessel, or piece of equipment for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new engine, vehicle, vessel, or piece of equipment into commerce in the United States. This includes importers who import such products for resale, but not dealers.


*Total number of certificates issued* means the number of certificates for which fees have been paid. This term is not intended to represent multiple certificates that are issued within a single family or test group.


*Void* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.


*We (us, our)* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.



---

[N] [73 FR 59184, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 22982, Apr. 30, 2010]




