# § 225.3   Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d), this part applies to all railroads except—


(1) A railroad that operates freight trains only on track inside an installation which is not part of the general railroad system of transportation or that owns no track except for track that is inside an installation that is not part of the general railroad system of transportation and used for freight operations.


(2) Rail mass transit operations in an urban area that are not connected with the general railroad system of transportation.


(3) A railroad that exclusively hauls passengers inside an installation that is insular or that owns no track except for track used exclusively for the hauling of passengers inside an installation that is insular. An operation is not considered insular if one or more of the following exists on its line:


(i) A public highway-rail grade crossing that is in use;


(ii) An at-grade rail crossing that is in use;


(iii) A bridge over a public road or waters used for commercial navigation; or


(iv) A common corridor with a railroad, *i.e.,* its operations are within 30 feet of those of any railroad.


(b) The Internal Control Plan requirements in § 225.33(a)(3) through (a)(11) do not apply to—


(1) Railroads that operate or own track on the general railroad system of transportation that have 15 or fewer employees covered by the hours of service law (49 U.S.C. 21101-21107) and


(2) Railroads that operate or own track exclusively off the general system.


(c) The recordkeeping requirements regarding accountable injuries and illnesses and accountable rail equipment accidents/incidents found in § 225.25(a) through (g) do not apply to—


(1) Railroads that operate or own track on the general railroad system of transportation that have 15 or fewer employees covered by the hours of service law (49 U.S.C. 21101-21107) and


(2) Railroads that operate or own track exclusively off the general system.


(d) All requirements in this part to record or report an injury or illness incurred by any classification of person that results from a non-train incident do not apply to railroads that operate or own track exclusively off the general railroad system of transportation, unless the non-train incident involves in- service on-track equipment.



---

[N] [61 FR 30967, June 18, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 67490, Dec. 23, 1996; 75 FR 68903, Nov. 9, 2010]




