# § 387.307T   Property broker surety bond or trust fund.

This section will remain in effect until January 16, 2026.


(a) *Security.* A broker must have a surety bond or trust fund in effect for $75,000. The FMCSA will not issue a broker license until a surety bond or trust fund for the full limits of liability prescribed herein is in effect. The broker license shall remain valid or effective only as long as a surety bond or trust fund remains in effect and shall ensure the financial responsibility of the broker.


(b) *Evidence of security.* Evidence of a surety bond must be filed using the FMCSA's prescribed Form BMC 84. Evidence of a trust fund with a financial institution must be filed using the FMCSA's prescribed Form BMC 85. The surety bond or the trust fund shall ensure the financial responsibility of the broker by providing for payments to shippers or motor carriers if the broker fails to carry out its contracts, agreements, or arrangements for the supplying of transportation by authorized motor carriers.


(c) *Financial institution*—when used in this section and in forms prescribed under this section, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, shall mean—Each agent, agency, branch or office within the United States of any person, as defined by the ICC Termination Act, doing business in one or more of the capacities listed below:


(1) An insured bank (as defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h));


(2) A commercial bank or trust company;


(3) An agency or branch of a foreign bank in the United States;


(4) An insured depository institution (as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2));


(5) A thrift institution (savings bank, building and loan association, credit union, industrial bank or other);


(6) An insurance company;


(7) A loan or finance company; or


(8) A person subject to supervision by any State or Federal bank supervisory authority.


(d) *Forms and Procedures*—(1) *Forms for broker surety bonds and trust agreements.* Form BMC-84 broker surety bond will be filed with the FMCSA for the full security limits under paragraph (a) of this section; or Form BMC-85 broker trust fund agreement will be filed with the FMCSA for the full security limits under paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Broker surety bonds and trust fund agreements in effect continuously.* Surety bonds and trust fund agreements shall specify that coverage thereunder will remain in effect continuously until terminated as herein provided.


(i) *Cancellation notice.* The surety bond and the trust fund agreement may be cancelled only upon 30 days' written notice to the FMCSA, on prescribed Form BMC 36, by the principal or surety for the surety bond, and on prescribed Form BMC 85, by the trustor/broker or trustee for the trust fund agreement.


(ii) *Termination by replacement.* Broker surety bonds or trust fund agreements which have been accepted by the FMCSA under these rules may be replaced by other surety bonds or trust fund agreements, and the liability of the retiring surety or trustee under such surety bond or trust fund agreements shall be considered as having terminated as of the effective date of the replacement surety bond or trust fund agreement. However, such termination shall not affect the liability of the surety or the trustee hereunder for the payment of any damages arising as the result of contracts, agreements or arrangements made by the broker for the supplying of transportation prior to the date such termination becomes effective.


(3) *Filing and copies.* Broker surety bonds and trust fund agreements must be filed with the FMCSA in duplicate.



---

[N] [53 FR 10396, Mar. 31, 1988, as amended at 75 FR 72998, Nov. 29, 2010; 78 FR 58482, Sept. 24, 2013; 78 FR 60233, Oct. 1, 2013; 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 78672, 78674, Nov. 16, 2023; 89 FR 107026, Dec. 31, 2024]


