# § 406.20   Basic requirements.

(a) *General provisions.* Hospital insurance benefits are available to most individuals age 65 or over and to certain individuals under age 65 who do not qualify for those benefits under subpart B of this part and are willing to pay a monthly premium. This is called premium hospital insurance.


(b) *Eligibility of individuals age 65 or over to enroll for premium hospital insurance.* Any individual is eligible to enroll for Medicare Part A if he or she— 


(1) Has attained age 65;


(2) Is a resident of the United States and is either—


(i) A citizen of the United States; or


(ii) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence who has resided in the United States continuously for the 5-year period immediately preceding the month in which he or she meets all other requirements;


(3) Is not eligible for Part A benefits under subpart B of this part; and


(4) Is entitled to supplementary medical insurance (Part B of Medicare) or is eligible and has enrolled for it during an enrollment period.


(c) *Eligibility of individuals under age 65 to enroll for premium hospital insurance.* An individual who has not attained age 65 is eligible to enroll for Medicare Part A if he or she meets the following conditions:


(1) Has been entitled to Medicare Part A (under § 406.12 or § 406.15) on the basis of entitlement or deemed entitlement to social security disability benefits, as provided under section 226(b) of the Act.


(2) Continues to have a disabling physical or mental impairment.


(3) Loses entitlement to disability benefits (and therefore also loses entitlement to Medicare Part A under § 406.12) solely because his or her earnings exceed the amount allowed under the social security regulations pertaining to “substantial gainful activity” (20 CFR 404.1571-404.1574); and


(4) Is not otherwise entitled to Medicare Part A. 



---

[N] [56 FR 38078, Aug. 12, 1991; 56 FR 50058, Oct. 3, 1991]




