# § 1.140   Definitions.

When used in relation to the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 3051 through 3060, and this subpart—


*Act* means the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act, 15 U.S.C. 3051 through 3060.


*Breeder* means a person who is in the business of breeding covered horses.


*Commission* means the Federal Trade Commission.


*Covered horse* means any Thoroughbred horse, or any other horse made subject to the Act by election of the applicable State racing commission or the breed governing organization for such horse under 15 U.S.C. 3054(*l*), during the period—


(1) Beginning on the date of the horse's first timed and reported workout at a racetrack that participates in covered horseraces or at a training facility; and


(2) Ending on the date on which the Authority receives written notice that the horse has been retired.


*Covered horserace* means any horserace involving covered horses that has a substantial relation to interstate commerce, including any Thoroughbred horserace that is the subject of interstate off-track or advance deposit wagers.


*Covered persons* means all trainers, owners, breeders, jockeys, racetracks, veterinarians, persons (legal and natural) licensed by a State racing commission and the agents, assigns, and employees of such persons and other horse support personnel who are engaged in the care, training, or racing of covered horses.


*HISA Guidance* means Horseracing Integrity and Safety Authority (Authority) guidance issued under 15 U.S.C. 3054(g)(1), which does not have the force of law.


*Horseracing anti-doping and medication control program* means the anti-doping and medication program established under 15 U.S.C. 3055(a).


*Horseracing Integrity and Safety Authority* or *Authority* means the private, independent, self-regulatory, nonprofit corporation recognized for purposes of developing and implementing a horseracing anti-doping and medication control program and a racetrack safety program for covered horses, covered persons, and covered horseraces.


*Interstate off-track wager* has the meaning given such term in Section 3 of the Interstate Horseracing Act of 1978, 15 U.S.C. 3002.


*Jockey* means a rider or driver of a covered horse in covered horseraces.


*Owner* means a person who holds an ownership interest in one or more covered horses.


*Proposed rule* means any rule proposed by the Authority pursuant to the Act.


*Proposed rule modification* or *modification* means:


(1) Any proposed modification to a rule or proposed rule change; or


(2) Any interpretation or statement of policy or practice relating to an existing rule of the Authority that is not HISA Guidance and would have the force of law if approved as a final rule.


*Racetrack* means an organization licensed by a State racing commission to conduct covered horseraces.


*Racetrack safety program* means the program established under 15 U.S.C. 3056(a).


*State racing commission* means an entity designated by State law or regulation that has jurisdiction over the conduct of horseracing within the applicable State.


*Trainer* means an individual engaged in the training of covered horses.


*Training facility* means a location that is not a racetrack licensed by a State racing commission that operates primarily to house covered horses and conduct official timed workouts.


*Veterinarian* means a licensed veterinarian who provides veterinary services to covered horses.


*Workout* means a timed running of a horse over a predetermined distance not associated with a race or its first qualifying race, if such race is made subject to the Act by election under 15 U.S.C. 3054(*l*) of the horse's breed governing organization or the applicable State racing commission.






