# § 63.775   Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of subpart A of this part, that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 2 of this subpart.


(b) Each owner or operator of a major source subject to this subpart shall submit the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(7) and (b)(8) of this section.


(1) The initial notifications required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the initial notifications shall be submitted by 1 year after an affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by June 17, 2000, whichever is later. Affected sources that are major sources on or before June 17, 2000, and plan to be area sources by June 17, 2002, shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.


(ii) An affected source identified under § 63.760(f)(7) or (9) shall submit an initial notification required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) within 1 year after the affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by October 15, 2013, whichever is later. An affected source identified under § 63.760(f)(7) or (9) that plans to be an area source by October 15, 2015, shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.


(2) The date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2), required only if the owner or operator is required by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system. A separate notification of the performance evaluation is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) The planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). Unless requested by the Administrator, a site-specific test plan is not required by this subpart. If requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator must also submit the site-specific test plan required by § 63.7(c) with the notification of the performance test. A separate notification of the performance test is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(4) A Notification of Compliance Status report as described in paragraph (d) of this section;


(5) Periodic Reports as described in paragraph (e) of this section; and


(6) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the Periodic Report specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.764(j), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(7) [Reserved]


(8) Each owner or operator of ancillary equipment and compressors subject to this subpart that are exempt from the control requirements for equipment leaks in § 63.769, are exempt from all reporting requirements for major sources in this subpart, for that equipment.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(8), each owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart shall submit the information listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the source is located within a UA plus offset and UC boundary, the owner or operator shall also submit the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) of this section. If the source is not located within any UA plus offset and UC boundaries, the owner or operator shall also submit the information listed within paragraph (c)(7).


(1) The initial notifications required under § 63.9(b)(2) not later than January 3, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. In addition to submitting your initial notification to the addressees specified under § 63.9(a), you must also submit a copy of the initial notification to the EPA's Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. Send your notification via email to *Oil and Gas Sector@epa.gov* or via U.S. mail or other mail delivery service to U.S. EPA, Sector Policies and Programs Division/Fuels and Incineration Group (E143-01), Attn: Oil and Gas Project Leader, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.


(2) The date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2) if an owner or operator is required by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system.


(3) The planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). Unless requested by the Administrator, a site-specific test plan is not required by this subpart. If requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator must submit the site-specific test plan required by § 63.7(c) with the notification of the performance test. A separate notification of the performance test is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(4) A Notification of Compliance Status as described in paragraph (d) of this section;


(5) Periodic reports as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and


(6) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the Periodic Report specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.764(j), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(7) The information listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. This information shall be submitted with the initial notification.


(i) Documentation of the source's location relative to the nearest UA plus offset and UC boundaries. This information shall include the latitude and longitude of the affected source; whether the source is located in an urban cluster with 10,000 people or more; the distance in miles to the nearest urbanized area boundary if the source is not located in an urban cluster with 10,000 people or more; and the name of the nearest urban cluster with 10,000 people or more and nearest urbanized area.


(ii) Calculation of the optimum glycol circulation rate determined in accordance with § 63.764(d)(2)(i).


(iii) If applicable, documentation of the alternate glycol circulation rate calculated using GRI-GLYCalc 
TM, Version 3.0 or higher and documentation stating why the TEG dehydration unit must operate using the alternate glycol circulation rate.


(iv) The name of the manufacturer and the model number of the glycol circulation pump(s) in operation.


(v) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that the facility will always operate the glycol dehydration unit using the optimum circulation rate determined in accordance with § 63.764(d)(2)(i) or § 63.764(d)(2)(ii), as applicable.


(8) An owner or operator of a TEG dehydration unit located at an area source that meets the criteria in § 63.764(e)(1)(i) or § 63.764(e)(1)(ii) is exempt from the reporting requirements for area sources in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section, for that unit.


(d) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status Report as required under § 63.9(h) within 180 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.760(f). In addition to the information required under § 63.9(h), the Notification of Compliance Status Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination of the three. If all of the information required under this paragraph has been submitted at any time prior to 180 days after the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.760(f), a separate Notification of Compliance Status Report is not required. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section at different times, and/or different submittals, subsequent submittals may refer to previous submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information. 


(1) If a closed-vent system and a control device other than a flare are used to comply with § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit the information in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section and the information in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) The condenser design analysis documentation specified in § 63.772(e)(4) of this subpart, if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design analysis.


(ii) If the owner or operator is required to conduct a performance test, the performance test results including the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. Results of a performance test conducted prior to the compliance date of this subpart can be used provided that the test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.772(e)(3) and that the test conditions are representative of current operating conditions. If the owner or operator operates a combustion control device model tested under § 63.772(h), an electronic copy of the performance test results shall be submitted via email to *Oil_and_Gas_PT@EPA.GOV* unless the test results for that model of combustion control device are posted at the following Web site: *epa.gov/airquality/oilandgas/.*

(A) The percent reduction of HAP or TOC, or the outlet concentration of HAP or TOC (parts per million by volume on a dry basis), determined as specified in § 63.772(e)(3) of this subpart; and


(B) The value of the monitored parameters specified in § 773(d) of this subpart, or a site-specific parameter approved by the permitting agency, averaged over the full period of the performance test.


(iii) The results of the closed-vent system initial inspections performed according to the requirements in § 63.773(c)(2)(i) and (ii). 


(2) If a closed-vent system and a flare are used to comply with § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit performance test results including the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall also submit the information in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. 


(i) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flowrate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.772(e)(2) of this subpart.


(ii) A statement of whether a flame was present at the pilot light over the full period of the compliance determination.


(iii) The results of the closed-vent system initial inspections performed according to the requirements in § 63.773(c)(2)(i) and (ii). 


(3) For each owner or operator subject to the provisions specified in § 63.769, the owner or operator shall submit the information required by § 61.247(a), except that the initial report required in § 61.247(a) shall be submitted as a part of the Notification of Compliance Status Report required in paragraph (d) of this section. The owner or operator shall also submit the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The number of each equipment (e.g., valves, pumps, etc.) excluding equipment in vacuum service, and


(ii) Any change in the information submitted in this paragraph shall be provided to the Administrator as a part of subsequent Periodic Reports described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section.


(4) The owner or operator shall submit one complete test report for each test method used for a particular source.


(i) For additional tests performed using the same test method, the results specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.


(ii) A complete test report shall include a sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.


(5) For each control device other than a flare used to meet the requirements of § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5) (i) through (iii) of this section for each operating parameter required to be monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.773(d).


(i) The minimum operating parameter value or maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate for the control device, established by the owner or operator to define the conditions at which the control device must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements of § 63.771(d)(1) or (e)(3)(ii).


(ii) An explanation of the rationale for why the owner or operator selected each of the operating parameter values established in § 63.773(d)(5). This explanation shall include any data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the chosen value indicates that the control device is operating in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 63.771(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii) or (f)(1).


(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.


(iv) For each carbon adsorber, the predetermined carbon replacement schedule as required in § 63.771(d)(5)(i).


(6) Results of any continuous monitoring system performance evaluations shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status Report.


(7) After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, the owner or operator of such source shall comply with all requirements for compliance status reports contained in the source's title V permit, including reports required under this subpart. After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, and each time a notification of compliance status is required under this subpart, the owner or operator of such source shall submit the notification of compliance status to the appropriate permitting authority following completion of the relevant compliance demonstration activity specified in this subpart.


(8) The owner or operator that elects to comply with the requirements of § 63.765(b)(1)(ii) shall submit the records required under § 63.774(c).


(9) The owner or operator shall submit the analysis performed under § 63.760(a)(1).


(10) The owner or operator shall submit a statement as to whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart.


(11) The owner or operator shall submit the analysis prepared under § 63.771(e)(2) to demonstrate the conditions by which the facility will be operated to achieve the HAP emission reduction of 95.0 percent, or the BTEX limit in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii), through process modifications or a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices.


(12) If a cover is installed to comply with § 63.764, the results of the initial inspection performed according to the requirements specified in § 63.773(c)(2)(iii).


(13) If the owner or operator installs a combustion control device model tested under the procedures in § 63.772(h), the data listed under § 63.772(h)(8).


(14) For each combustion control device model tested under § 63.772(h), the information listed in paragraphs (d)(14)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Name, address and telephone number of the control device manufacturer.


(ii) Control device model number.


(iii) Control device serial number.


(iv) Date the model of control device was tested by the manufacturer.


(v) Manufacturer's HAP destruction efficiency rating.


(vi) Control device operating parameters, maximum allowable inlet gas flowrate.


(e) *Periodic Reports.* An owner or operator of a major source shall prepare Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section and submit them to the Administrator. An owner or operator of an area source shall prepare Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section and submit them to the Administrator.


(1) An owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports semiannually beginning 60 calendar days after the end of the applicable reporting period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due. 


(2) The owner or operator shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section, as applicable.


(i) The information required under § 63.10(e)(3). For the purposes of this subpart and the information required under § 63.10(e)(3), excursions (as defined in § 63.773(d)(6)) shall be considered excess emissions.


(ii) A description of all excursions as defined in § 63.773(d)(6) of this subpart that have occurred during the 6-month reporting period.


(A) For each excursion caused when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit), as specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(i), the report must include the daily average values of the monitored parameter, the applicable operating parameter limit, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.


(B) For each excursion caused when the 365-day average condenser control efficiency is less than the value specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(ii), the report must include the 365-day average values of the condenser control efficiency, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.


(C) For each excursion caused when condenser control efficiency is less than the value specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(iii), the report must include the average values of the condenser control efficiency, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.


(D) For each excursion caused by the lack of monitoring data, as specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(iv), the report must include the date and duration of the period when the monitoring data were not collected and the reason why the data were not collected.


(E) For each excursion caused when the maximum inlet gas flowrate identified under § 63.772(h) is exceeded, the report must include the values of the inlet gas identified and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.


(F) For each excursion caused when visible emissions determined under § 63.772(i) exceed the maximum allowable duration, the report must include the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred, repairs affected to the unit, and date the unit was returned to service.


(iii) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.773(c) during which a leak or defect is detected, the records specified in § 63.774(b)(7) must be included in the next Periodic Report.


(iv) For each owner or operator subject to the provisions specified in § 63.769, the owner or operator shall comply with the reporting requirements specified in 40 CFR 61.247, except that the Periodic Reports shall be submitted on the schedule specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(v) For each closed-vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.771(c)(3)(i)(A), records required under § 63.774(b)(4)(iii) of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. For each closed-vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.771(c)(3)(i)(B), records required under § 63.774(b)(4)(iv) of all periods in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.


(vi) If an owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.765(b)(1)(ii), the records required under § 63.774(c)(3).


(vii) The information in paragraphs (e)(2)(vii) (A) and (B) of this section shall be stated in the Periodic Report, when applicable.


(A) No excursions.


(B) No continuous monitoring system has been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted.


(viii) Any change in compliance methods as specified in § 63.772(f).


(ix) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.765(c)(2), the records required under § 63.774(b)(11).


(x) For flares, the records specified in § 63.774(e)(3).


(xi) The results of any periodic test as required in § 63.772(e)(3) conducted during the reporting period.


(xii) For each carbon adsorber used to meet the control device requirements of § 63.771(d)(1), records of each carbon replacement that occurred during the reporting period.


(xiii) For combustion control device inspections conducted in accordance with § 63.773(b) the records specified in § 63.774(i).


(xiv) Certification by a responsible official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.


(3) An owner or operator of an area source located inside a UA plus offset and UC boundary shall prepare and submit Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Periodic reports must be submitted on an annual basis. The first reporting period shall cover the period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due and ending on December 31. The report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the reporting period.


(ii) Subsequent reporting periods begin every January 1 and end on December 31. Subsequent reports shall be submitted within 30 days following the end of the reporting period.


(iii) The periodic reports must contain the information included in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) *Notification of process change.* Whenever a process change is made, or a change in any of the information submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status Report, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or as a part of the next Periodic Report as required under paragraph (e) of this section, whichever is sooner. The report shall include:


(1) A brief description of the process change;


(2) A description of any modification to standard procedures or quality assurance procedures;


(3) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (d) of this section; and


(4) Information required by the Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (d) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment.


(g) *Electronic reporting.* (1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (defined in § 63.2) as required by this subpart you must submit the results of the performance tests required by this subpart to EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*www.epa.gov/cdx*). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see *http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media (including, but not limited to, flash drives) to EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the confidential business information, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority.


(2) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (g)(1) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (g)(1) of this section in paper format.



---

[N] [64 FR 32628, June 17, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 34554, June 29, 2001; 72 FR 39, Jan. 3, 2007; 77 FR 49580, Aug. 16, 2012; 85 FR 73894, Nov. 19, 2020]




