# § 240.9   Reclamation procedures; reclamation protests.

(a) *Reclamation procedures.* (1) Treasury will send a “NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION)” to the reclamation debtor in accordance with § 240.8(a). This notice will advise the reclamation debtor of the amount demanded and the reason for the demand. Treasury will provide notice to the reclamation debtor that:


(i) If the reclamation debt is not paid within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury intends to collect the amount outstanding by instructing the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit on the 31st day the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor. The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor;


(ii) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to inspect and copy Treasury's records with respect to the reclamation debt;


(iii) The reclamation debtor may, by filing a protest in accordance with § 240.9(b), request Treasury to review its decision that the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt. If such a protest is filed within 30 days after the reclamation date, Treasury will not instruct the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to debit the Master Account used by the reclamation debtor while the protest is still pending; and


(iv) The reclamation debtor has an opportunity to enter into a written agreement with Treasury for the repayment of the reclamation debt. A request for a repayment agreement must be accompanied by documentary proof that satisfies Treasury that the reclamation debtor is unable to repay the entire amount owed when due.


(2) Requests by a reclamation debtor for an appointment to inspect and copy Treasury's records with respect to a reclamation debt and requests to enter into repayment agreements must be sent in writing to the address provided on the Check Claims Web site at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims* or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.*

(3) If Treasury determines a reclamation debt is due and the Federal Reserve Bank is unable to debit the financial institution's Master Account, Fiscal Service will assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with § 240.8. Additionally, Treasury will proceed to collect the reclamation debt through offset in accordance with § 240.10 and Treasury Check Offset in accordance with § 240.11.


(4) If Treasury determines a reclamation has been made in error, Treasury will abandon the reclamation. If Treasury already has collected the amount of the reclamation from the reclamation debtor, Treasury will promptly refund to the reclamation debtor the amount of its payment.


(b) *Reclamation protests*—(1) *Who may protest.* Only a reclamation debtor may protest a reclamation.


(2) *Basis for protest.* Where Treasury, in accordance with § 240.8 and paragraph (a) of this section, reclaims the amount of a check payment, the reclamation debtor may file a protest challenging such reclamation. Protests may be filed challenging the following determinations:


(i) *Counterfeit checks.* The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that it made all reasonable efforts to ensure that a check is authentic. The reclamation debtor must include evidence that the check was examined for a watermark as required under §§ 240.2(bb) and 240.4. Depending on the circumstances, Fiscal Service may require evidence that the reclamation debtor also examined the check for evidence of additional security features as described in guidance provided by Treasury or on Treasury's behalf.


(ii) *Altered checks.* The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the check is not altered.


(iii) *Checks bearing forged or unauthorized drawer's signatures.* The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the reclamation debtor did not have knowledge of the forged or unauthorized drawer's signature.


(iv) *Checks bearing a forged or unauthorized indorsement.* The reclamation debtor may offer evidence that the indorsement was not forged or was otherwise authorized in accordance with the requirements of §§ 240.13 through 240.17.


(v) *Prior presentment.* The presenting bank may offer evidence that the check or a paper or electronic representation thereof has not already been presented to, and paid by, Treasury.


(vi) *Adequacy of substitute check or electronic check.* The presenting bank may offer an original check or a copy of the check that is sufficient to support a determination that the check does not contain a material defect or alteration.


(3) *Procedures for filing a protest.* A reclamation protest must be sent in writing to the address provided on the Check Claims Web site at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/checkclaims* or to such other address as Treasury may publish in the Goldbook: The Check Reclamation Guide, which can be found at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.*

(i) The reclamation protest must include supporting documentation (including, but not limited to, affidavits, account agreements, and signature cards) for the purpose of establishing that the reclamation debtor is not liable for the reclamation debt.


(ii) Treasury will not consider reclamation protests received more than 60 days after the reclamation date.


(iii) Treasury may, at its discretion, consider information received from a guarantor other than the reclamation debtor. However, in so doing, Treasury does not waive any of its rights under this part, nor does Treasury grant rights to any guarantor that are not otherwise provided in this part.


(4) *Review of a reclamation protest.* The responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will make every effort to decide any protest properly submitted under this section within 60 days, and will notify the reclamation debtor of Treasury's decision. In those cases where it is not possible to render a decision within 60 days, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, will notify the reclamation debtor of the delay. Neither the responsible Fiscal Service Director, nor an authorized designee, will have any involvement in the process of making determinations under § 240.8(a) of this part or sending a “REQUEST FOR REFUND (CHECK RECLAMATION)” under § 240.9(a) of this part.


(i) Treasury will refrain from the collection activities identified in §§ 240.10 and 240.11 while a timely protest is being considered. However, interest, penalties, and administrative costs will continue to accrue and will be added to the reclamation debt until a final determination on the protest has been made.


(ii) If, based on the evidence provided, the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds that the reclamation debtor has met, by a preponderance of the evidence, the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor, in writing, of his or her decision to terminate collection and will refund any amounts previously collected for the reclamation debt. Treasury may refund the amount either by applying the amount to another reclamation debt owed by the reclamation debtor in accordance with this part or other applicable law, or by returning the amount to the reclamation debtor.


(iii) If the responsible Fiscal Service Director, or an authorized designee, finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, the reclamation debtor is liable for the reclamation debt, Treasury will notify the reclamation debtor of his or her decision in writing. If the reclamation debtor has not paid the reclamation in full, Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account immediately, provided at least 30 days have passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). If at least 30 days have not yet passed after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION), Treasury will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to debit the financial institution's Master Account on the 31st day after the date of the NOTICE OF DIRECT DEBIT (RECLAMATION). The Federal Reserve Bank will provide advice of the debit to the reclamation debtor. If the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank is unable to debit a reclamation debtor's Master Account, Treasury will proceed to collect the reclamation debt through offset in accordance with § 240.10 and § 240.11.


(5) *Effect of protest decision.* The notice provided to the reclamation debtor under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section shall serve as the final agency determination under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 701, *et seq.*). No civil suit may be filed until the reclamation debtor has filed a protest under this section, and Treasury has provided notice of its final determination.



---

[N] [69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 57909, Sept. 19, 2011]




