# § 522.313b   Ceftiofur hydrochloride.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of suspension contains:


(1) Ceftiofur hydrochloride equivalent to 50 milligrams (mg) of ceftiofur equivalents in the inactive vehicles phospholipan 90H, sorbitan monooleate, and cottonseed oil;


(2) Ceftiofur hydrochloride equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur equivalents in the inactive vehicles polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate (polysorbate 80) in a caprylic/capric triglyceride suspension; or


(3) Ceftiofur hydrochloride equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur equivalents in the inactive vehicles aluminum monostearate, sorbitan monooleate, and medium chain triglycerides.


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsors in § 510.600(c) of this chapter as follows:


(1) No. 054771 for products described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; and


(2) No. 055529 for the product described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.113 of this chapter.


(d) *Special considerations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian. Federal law prohibits extra-label use of this drug in cattle and swine for disease prevention purposes; at unapproved doses, frequencies, durations, or routes of administration; and in unapproved major food-producing species/production classes.


(e) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Swine*—(i) *Amount.* 3 to 5 mg per kilogram (/kg) of body weight by intramuscular injection. Treatment should be repeated at 24-hour intervals for a total of 3 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment and control of swine bacterial respiratory disease (swine bacterial pneumonia) associated with *Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae*, *Pasteurella multocida*, *Salmonella* Choleraesuis, and *Streptococcus suis.*

(iii) *Limitations.* For products described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section: Treated swine must not be slaughtered for 4 days following the last treatment. For products described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Treated swine must not be slaughtered for 6 days following the last treatment when injection site volumes are greater than 5 mL up to the maximum injection site volume of 15 mL. Treated swine must not be slaughtered for 4 days when injection site volumes are less than or equal to 5 mL.


(2) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Administer by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection as follows:


(A) For bovine respiratory disease and acute bovine interdigital necrobacillosis: 1.1 to 2.2 mg/kg of body weight at 24-hour intervals for 3 to 5 consecutive days.


(B) For bovine respiratory disease: 2.2 mg/kg of body weight administered twice at a 48 hour interval.


(C) For acute metritis: 2.2 mg/kg of body weight at 24-hour intervals for 5 consecutive days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of bovine respiratory disease (BRD, shipping fever, pneumonia) associated with *Mannheimia haemolytica*, *P. multocida*, and *Histophilus somni*; acute bovine interdigital necrobacillosis (foot rot, pododermatitis) associated with *Fusobacterium necrophorum* and *Bacteroides melaninogenicus*; and acute metritis (0 to 14 days post-partum) associated with bacteria susceptible to ceftiofur.


(iii) *Limitations.* (A) For products described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section: Treated cattle must not be slaughtered for 3 days following the last treatment. For products described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section: Treated cattle must not be slaughtered for 4 days following the last treatment.


(B) A withdrawal period has not been established in preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal.



---

[N] [61 FR 29479, June 11, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 53578, Oct. 6, 1998; 67 FR 45901, July 11, 2002; 69 FR 47362, Aug. 5, 2004. Redesignated and amended at 71 FR 39544, July 13, 2006; 73 FR 45612, Aug. 6, 2008; 76 FR 17338, Mar. 29, 2011; 78 FR 66264, Nov. 5, 2013; 84 FR 39183, Aug. 9, 2019; 84 FR 53311, Oct. 7, 2019]




