# ยง 200.20b   Director of Division of Investment Management.

The Director of the Division of Investment Management is responsible to the Commission for the administration of the Commission's responsibilities under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and with respect to matters pertaining to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and pooled investment funds or accounts, the administration of all matters relating to establishing and requiring adherence to standards of economic and financial reporting and the administration of fair disclosure and related matters under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and enforcement of the standards set forth in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 regarding indentures covering debt securities, as listed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. These duties shall include inspections arising in connection with such administration but shall exclude enforcement and related activities under the jurisdiction of the Division of Enforcement.


(a) The administration of all matters arising under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), except those arising under section 30(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-29(h)). 


(b) All matters arising under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*) arising from or pertaining to material field pursuant to the requirements of that Act by investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 *et seq.*) and pooled investment funds or accounts.


(c) All matters arising under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.*), except the examination and processing of statements of beneficial ownership of securities and changes in such ownership filed under section 16(a) (15 U.S.C. 78p(a)) of such Act, pertaining to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and pooled investment funds or accounts in connection with:


(1) The registration of securities pursuant to section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78*l*), including the exemptive provisions of section 12(h) (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(h)).


(2) The examination and processing of periodic reports filed pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78*o*(d)).


(3) The examination and processing of proxy soliciting material filed pursuant to section 14(a) and information material filed pursuant to section 14(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n(a), 78n(c)).


(d) All matters pertaining to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and pooled investment funds or accounts arising under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77aaa *et seq.*).


(e) All matters arising under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 *et seq.*).



---

[N] [41 FR 29375, July 16, 1976, as amended at 50 FR 5064, Feb. 5, 1985; 60 FR 14626, Mar. 20, 1995; 67 FR 43535, July 8, 2002; 76 FR 71874, Nov. 21, 2011]




