# § 130.14   General statements of substandard quality and substandard fill of container.

For the purposes of regulations promulgated under section 401 of the act:


(a) The term *general statement of substandard quality* means the statement “Below Standard in Quality Good Food—Not High Grade” printed in two lines of Cheltenham bold condensed caps. The words “Below Standard in Quality” constitute the first line, and the second immediately follows. If the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 1 pound, the type of the first line is 12-point, and of the second, 8-point. If such quantity is 1 pound or more, the type of the first line is 14-point, and of the second, 10-point. Such statement is enclosed within lines, not less than 6 points in width, forming a rectangle. Such statement, with enclosing lines, is on a strongly contrasting, uniform background, and is so placed as to be easily seen when the name of the food or any pictorial representation thereof is viewed, wherever such name or representation appears so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase.


(b) The term *general statement of substandard fill* means the statement “Below Standard in Fill” printed in Cheltenham bold condensed caps. If the quantity of the contents of the container is less than 1 pound, the statement is in 12-point type; if such quantity is 1 pound or more, the statement is in 14-point type. Such statement is enclosed within lines, not less than 6 points in width, forming a rectangle; but if the statement specified in paragraph (a) of this section is also used, both statements (one following the other) may be enclosed within the same rectangle. Such statement or statements, with enclosing lines, are on a strongly contrasting, uniform background, and are so placed as to be easily seen when the name of the food or any pictorial representation thereof is viewed, wherever such name or representation appears so conspicuously as to be easily seen under customary conditions of purchase.




