# ยง 127.201   What are the requirements for ownership of an EDWOSB and WOSB?

(a) *General.* To qualify as an EDWOSB one or more economically disadvantaged women must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. To qualify as a WOSB, one or more women must unconditionally and directly own at least 51 percent of the concern. Ownership will be determined without regard to community property laws.


(b) *Unconditional ownership.* To be considered unconditional, ownership must not be subject to any conditions, executory agreements, voting trusts, restrictions on or assignments of voting rights, or other arrangements causing or potentially causing ownership benefits to go to another (other than after death or incapacity).


(1) The pledge or encumbrance of stock or other ownership interest as collateral, including seller-financed transactions, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership if the terms follow normal commercial practices and the owner retains control absent violations of the terms.


(2) In determining unconditional ownership, SBA will disregard any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by qualifying women. However, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements (including rights to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock) held by men or other entities will be treated as exercised, except for any ownership interests which are held by investment companies licensed under 15 U.S.C. 681 *et. seq.*

(3) A right of first refusal granting a man or other entity the contractual right to purchase the ownership interests of the qualifying woman, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership, if the terms follow normal commercial practices. If those rights are exercised by a man or other entity after certification, the WOSB/EDWOSB must notify SBA. If the exercise of those rights results in qualifying women owning less than 51% of the concern, SBA will initiate decertification pursuant to ยง 127.405.


(c) *Requirement for direct ownership.* To be considered direct, the qualifying women must own 51 percent of the concern directly. The 51 percent ownership may not be through another business entity or a trust (including employee stock ownership plan) that is, in turn, owned and controlled by one or more women or economically disadvantaged women. However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be treated as the functional equivalent of ownership by a woman or economically disadvantaged woman where the trust is revocable, and the woman is the grantor, the trustee, and the sole current beneficiary of the trust.


(d) *Ownership of a partnership.* In the case of a concern that is a partnership, at least 51 percent of each class of partnership interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more women or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement. For purposes of this requirement, general and limited partnership interests are considered different classes of partnership interest.


(e) *Ownership of a limited liability company.* In the case of a concern that is a limited liability company, at least 51 percent of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more women or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women.


(f) *Ownership of a corporation.* In the case of a concern that is a corporation, at least 51 percent of each class of voting stock outstanding and 51 percent of the aggregate of all stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more women, or in the case of an EDWOSB, economically disadvantaged women. In determining unconditional ownership of the concern, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by a woman will be disregarded. However, any unexercised stock option or other agreement, including the right to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock, held by any other individual or entity will be treated as having been exercised.


(g) *Dividends and distributions.* One or more qualifying women must be entitled to receive:


(1) At least 51 percent of any distribution of profits paid to the owners of a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company concern, and a qualifying woman's ability to share in the profits of the concern must be commensurate with the extent of her ownership interest in that concern;


(2) 100 percent of the value of each share of stock owned by them in the event that the stock is sold; and


(3) At least 51 percent of the retained earnings of the concern and 100 percent of the unencumbered value of each share of stock or member interest owned in the event of dissolution of the corporation, partnership, or limited liability company.



---

[N] [75 FR 62282, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102506, Dec. 17, 2024]




