# § 721.7600   Alkyl(heterocyclicyl) phenylazohetero monocyclic polyone (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance alkyl (heterocyclicyl) phenylazohetero monocyclic polyone (PMN P-85-1370) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i) through (a)(6)(iii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f) and (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v) and (g)(4). The provisions of § 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program and SDSs do not apply when the written program and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g) (as intermediates to manufacture dyes for coloring pulp or paper only) and (q). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1) and (c)(1).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(iv) and (c)(2)(iv).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (f), (i), (j) and (k). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [55 FR 32418, Aug. 9, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




