# ยง 63.166   Standards: Sampling connection systems.

(a) Each sampling connection system shall be equipped with a closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system, except as provided in ยง 63.162(b) of this subpart. Gases displaced during filling of the sample container are not required to be collected or captured.


(b) Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed-vent system as required in paragraph (a) of this section shall:


(1) Return the purged process fluid directly to the process line; or


(2) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process; or


(3) Be designed and operated to capture and transport the purged process fluid to a control device that complies with the requirements of ยง 63.172 of this subpart; or


(4) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to a system or facility identified in paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(i) A waste management unit as defined in ยง 63.111 of subpart G of this part, if the waste management unit is subject to, and operated in compliance with the provisions of subpart G of this part applicable to group 1 wastewater streams. If the purged process fluid does not contain any organic HAP listed in Table 9 of subpart G of part 63, the waste management unit need not be subject to, and operated in compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G applicable to group 1 wastewater streams provided the facility has an NPDES permit or sends the wastewater to an NPDES permitted facility.


(ii) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266; or


(iii) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.


(c) *In-situ* sampling systems and sampling systems without purges are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [59 FR 19568, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 61 FR 31439, June 20, 1996]




