# § 102-33.360   What is the process for exchanging/selling aircraft parts for replacement?

(a) You or your agent (*i.e.,* another Federal agency or an authorized Sales Center) may transact an exchange/sale directly with a non-Federal source, or do a reimbursable transfer with another executive agency as long as you or your agent—


(1) Follow the provisions in this part and in 41 CFR part 102-39;


(2) Ensure that the applicable labels and tags, historical data and modification records accompany the parts at the time of sale, and that sales offerings on aircraft parts contain the following statement:


*“Warning to purchasers/recipients.* The aircraft parts you are purchasing or receiving in an exchange may not be in compliance with applicable Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) requirements. You are solely responsible for bringing the aircraft into compliance with 14 CFR Chapter I, or other applicable standards, by obtaining all necessary FAA inspections or modifications.”


(3) Ensure that the following certification is signed by the purchaser/recipient and received by the Government before releasing parts to the purchaser/recipient:


“The purchaser/recipient agrees that the Government shall not be held liable for personal injuries to, disabilities of, or death of the purchaser/recipient, the purchaser's/recipient's employees, or to any other persons arising from or incident to the purchase of these aircraft parts, their use, or disposition. The purchaser/recipient shall hold the Government harmless from any or all debts, liabilities, judgments, costs, demands, suits, actions, or claims of any nature arising from or incident to the purchase, use, or resale of these aircraft parts.


These parts may have been used on aircraft that were operated outside the limitations of 14 CFR Chapter I, and some type of inspection may be needed to determine their airworthiness prior to being used on a recipient aircraft.


You should be aware of the following requirements prior to operating an aircraft with parts received from an exchange.


• All civil and public aircraft must have a valid registration issued by the FAA as required by 14 CFR Chapter I.


• Civil aircraft must have a valid airworthiness certificate in order to operate in U.S. airspace.


• In order for the aircraft to be eligible for a standard airworthiness certificate, the aircraft must conform to its FAA Type Certificate.


• Aircraft not having a valid airworthiness certificate may be eligible for a special FAA one-time flight permit to enable relocating the aircraft. Relocation can be for a number of reasons, perhaps including storage, repair, inspection, or public display. Any one-time flight approval is predicated on the aircraft being safe for flight.


• Individuals who purchase a surplus military (foreign or domestic) or foreign aircraft not having any type of FAA Type Certificate may be unable to obtain any type of airworthiness certificate or special flight permit.


• An aircraft with good maintenance and inspection records makes an airworthiness determination easier to ascertain. It is in your best interest to contact the nearest FAA Flight Standards District Office and discuss your responsibilities with respect to gaining an airworthiness determination. The location of your nearest FAA office may be obtained from the FAA's Web site (*http://www.faa.gov/*).”


(b) Authorized SCs can conduct sales of aircraft parts for you. SCs that are currently authorized to conduct sales, as well as contact information for the GovSales Program Manager, are available on the GovSales Web site at *http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/105020*.




