# ยง 2011.202   Definitions.

Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned below.


(a) *Appropriate Customs official* means the District or Area Director of Customs, his or her designee, or any other Customs officer of similar authority and responsibility for the Customs district in which the port of entry is located. 


(b) *Certificate* means a specialty sugar certificate issued by the Certifying Authority permitting the entry of specialty sugar.


(c) *Certifying Authority* means the Team Leader, Import Quota Programs, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or his or her designee.


(d) *Date of entry* means the date on which the appropriate Customs entry form is properly executed and deposited, together with any estimated duties and special import fees and any related documents required by law or regulation to be filed with such form at the time of entry with the appropriate Customs Officer. 


(e) *Importer* means any person in the United States importing specialty sugar into the United States. 


(f) *Person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, estate, trust, or other legal entity, and, wherever applicable, any unit, instrumentality, or agency, of a government, domestic or foreign.


(g) *Quota* means the tariff-rate quota on imports of sugar provided in additional U.S. Note 5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.


(h) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture or any officer of employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority or to whom the authority hereafter may be delegated to act in his place. 


(i) *Specialty sugar* means brown slab sugar (also known as slab sugar candy), pearl sugar (also known as perl sugar, perle sugar, and nibs sugar), vanilla sugar, rock candy, demerara sugar, dragees for cooking and baking, fondant (a creamy blend of sugar and glucose), ti light sugar (99.2% sugar with the residual comprised of the artificial sweeteners aspartame and acesulfame K), caster sugar, golden syrup, ferdiana granella grossa, golden granulated sugar, muscovado, molasses sugar, sugar decorations, sugar cubes, and other sugars, as determined by the United States Trade Representative, that would be considered specialty sugar products within the normal commerce of the United States, all of which in addition:


(1) Are sugars, syrups, or molasses described in subheading 1701.11.10, 1701.12.10, 1701.91.10, 1701.99.10, 1702.90.10, or 2106.90.44 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States,


(2) Are the product of a specialty sugar source country, and 


(j) *Specialty sugar source country* means any country or area to which the United States Trade Representative has allocated an amount of the quantity reserved for the importation of specialty sugars under additional U.S. Note 5 to chapter 17 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States.



---

[N] [55 FR 40648, Oct. 4, 1990, as amended at 61 FR 26785, May 29, 1996] 




