# § 63.1442   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new and existing affected source at your primary copper smelter. The affected sources are each copper concentrate dryer, each smelting vessel, each slag cleaning vessel, each copper converter department, each anode refining department, process fugitive emission sources (*i.e.,* roofline vents) from smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels, copper converter department and anode refining department, each bypass stack, and the entire group of fugitive dust sources, as defined in § 63.1459.


(b) The following affected sources: each copper concentrate dryer, each smelting vessel, each slag cleaning vessel, each copper converter department, and the entire group of fugitive dust sources at your primary copper smelter are existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before April 20, 1998.


(c) The following affected sources: each copper concentrate dryer, each smelting vessel, each slag cleaning vessel, each copper converter department and the entire group of fugitive dust sources at your primary copper smelter are new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after April 20, 1998. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of “reconstruction” in § 63.2.


(d) The following affected sources: each anode refining department and process fugitive emission sources (*i.e.,* roofline vents) from smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels, copper converter department and anode refining department are existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before January 11, 2022.


(e) The following affected sources: each anode refining department and process fugitive emission sources (i.e., roofline vents) from smelting vessels, slag cleaning vessels, copper converter department and anode refining department at your primary copper smelter are new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after January 11, 2022. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of “reconstruction” in § 63.2.


(f) The bypass stack is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before July 24, 2023.


(g) The bypass stack is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after July 24, 2023. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of “reconstruction” in § 63.2.






