# § 235.10   U.S. Citizen Identification Card.

(a) *General.* Form I-197, U.S. Citizen Identification Card, is no longer issued by the Service but valid existing cards will continue to be acceptable documentation of U.S. citizenship. Possession of the identification card is not mandatory for any purpose. A U.S. Citizen Identification Card remains the property of the United States. Because the identification card is no longer issued, there are no provisions for replacement cards.


(b) *Surrender and voidance*—(1) *Institution of proceeding under section 240 or 342 of the Act.* A U.S. Citizen Identification Card must be surrendered provisionally to a Service office upon notification by the district director that a proceeding under section 240 or 342 of the Act is being instituted against the person to whom the card was issued. The card shall be returned to the person if the final order in the proceeding does not result in voiding the card under this paragraph. A U.S. Citizen Identification Card is automatically void if the person to whom it was issued is determined to be an alien in a proceeding conducted under section 240 of the Act, or if a certificate, document, or record relating to that person is canceled under section 342 of the Act.


(2) *Investigation of validity of identification card.* A U.S. Citizen Identification Card must be surrendered provisionally upon notification by a district director that the validity of the card is being investigated. The card shall be returned to the person who surrendered it if the investigation does not result in a determination adverse to his or her claim to be a United States citizen. When an investigation results in a tentative determination adverse to the applicant's claim to be a United States citizen, the applicant shall be notified by certified mail directed to his or her last known address. The notification shall inform the applicant of the basis for the determination and of the intention of the district director to declare the card void unless within 30 days the applicant objects and demands an opportunity to see and rebut the adverse evidence. Any rebuttal, explanation, or evidence presented by the applicant must be included in the record of proceeding. The determination whether the applicant is a United States citizen must be based on the entire record and the applicant shall be notified of the determination. If it is determined that the applicant is not a United States citizen, the applicant shall be notified of the reasons, and the card deemed void. There is no appeal from the district director's decision.


(3) *Admission of alienage.* A U.S. Citizen Identification Card is void if the person to whom it was issued admits in a statement signed before an immigration officer that he or she is an alien and consents to the voidance of the card. Upon signing the statement the card must be surrendered to the immigration officer.


(4) *Surrender of void card.* A void U.S. Citizen Identification Card which has not been returned to the Service must be surrendered without delay to an immigration officer or to the issuing office of the Service.


(c) *U.S. Citizen Identification Card previously issued on Form I-179.* A valid Form I-179, U.S. Citizen Identification Card, continues to be valid subject to the provisions of this section.



---

[N] [62 FR 10359, Mar. 6, 1997]




