# § 765.205   Subordination of liens.

(a) *Borrower application requirements.* The borrower must submit the following, unless it already exists in the Agency's file and is still current as determined by the Agency:


(1) Completed Agency application for subordination form;


(2) A current financial statement, including, in the case of an entity, financial statements from all entity members;


(3) Documentation of compliance with the Agency's environmental regulations contained in part 799 of this chapter;


(4) Verification of all non-farm income;


(5) The farm's operating plan, including a projected cash flow budget reflecting production, income, expenses, and debt repayment plan; and


(6) Verification of all debts.




(b) *Incomplete applications.* Incomplete applications will be processed in accordance with 7 CFR 764.52.




(c) *Subordination of real estate security.* For loans secured by real estate, the Agency will approve a request for subordination subject to the following conditions:


(1) If a lender requires that the Agency subordinate its lien position on the borrower's existing property in order for the borrower to acquire new property and the request meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the request may be approved. The Agency will obtain a valid mortgage and the required lien position on the new property. The Agency will require title clearance and loan closing for the property in accordance with § 764.402 of this chapter.


(2) If the borrower is an entity and the Agency has taken real estate as additional security on property owned by a member, a subordination for any authorized loan purpose may be approved when it meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and it is needed for the entity member to finance a separate farming operation. The subordination must not cause the unpaid principal and interest on the FLP loan to exceed the value of loan security or otherwise adversely affect the security.


(3) The Agency will approve a request for subordination of real estate to a creditor if:


(i) The loan will be used for an authorized loan purpose or is to refinance a loan made for an authorized loan purpose by the Agency or another creditor;


(ii) The credit is essential to the farming operation, and the borrower cannot obtain the credit without a subordination;


(iii) The FLP loan is still adequately secured after the subordination, or the value of the loan security will be increased by an amount at least equal to the advance to be made under the subordination;


(iv) Except as authorized by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, there is no other subordination outstanding with another lender in connection with the same security;


(v) The subordination is limited to a specific amount;


(vi) The loan made in conjunction with the subordination will be closed within a reasonable time and has a definite maturity date;


(vii) If the loan is made in conjunction with a guaranteed loan, the guaranteed loan meets the requirements of § 762.142(c) of this chapter;


(viii) The borrower is not in default or will not be in default on FLP loans by the time the subordination closing is complete;


(ix) The borrower can demonstrate, through a current farm operating plan, the ability to repay all debt payments scheduled, and to be scheduled, during the production cycle;


(x) Except for CL, the borrower is unable to partially or fully graduate;


(xi) The borrower must not be ineligible as a result of a conviction for controlled substances according to part 718 of this chapter;


(xii) The borrower must not be ineligible due to disqualification resulting from Federal crop insurance violation according to part 718 of this chapter;


(xiii) The borrower will not use loan funds in a way that will contribute to erosion of highly erodible land or conversion of wetlands as described in part 799 of this chapter;


(xiv) Any planned development of real estate security will be performed as directed by the lessor or creditor, as approved by the Agency, and will comply with the terms and conditions of § 761.10 of this chapter;


(xv) If a borrower with an SAA mortgage is refinancing a loan held by a lender, subordination of the SAA mortgage may only be approved when the refinanced loan does not increase the amount of debt; and


(xvi) In the case of a subordination of non-program loan security, the non-program loan security also secures a program loan with the same borrower.


(4) The Agency will approve a request for subordination of real estate to a lessee if the conditions in paragraphs (b)(3)(viii) through (xvi) of this section are met.


(d) *Chattel security.* The requirements for chattel subordinations are as follows:


(1) For loans secured by chattel, the subordination must meet the conditions contained in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (xiii) of this section.


(2) The Agency will approve a request for a second subordination to enable a borrower to obtain crop insurance, if the following conditions are met:


(i) The creditor to whom the first subordination was given did not provide for payment of the current year's crop insurance premium, and consents in writing to the provisions of the second subordination to pay insurance premiums from the crop or insurance proceeds;


(ii) The borrower assigns the insurance proceeds to the Agency or names the Agency in the loss payable clause of the policy; and


(iii) The subordination meets the conditions under paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) of this section.


(e) *Appraisals.* An appraisal of the property that secures the FLP loan will be required when the Agency determines it necessary to protect its interest. Appraisals will be obtained in accordance with § 761.7 of this chapter.



---

[N] [72 FR 63309, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 54016, Sept. 3, 2010; 78 FR 65530, Nov. 1, 2013; 81 FR 51284, Aug. 3, 2016; 89 FR 65042, Aug. 8, 2024]




