# ยง 52.1081   Control strategy: Particulate matter.

(a) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of January 12, 2009, the Maryland portion of the Metropolitan Washington, DC-MD-VA nonattainment area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration and associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as the area continues to attain the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(b) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of November 20, 2009, the Martinsburg-Hagerstown, WV-MD PM_2.5_ nonattainment area has attained the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 52.1004(c), suspend the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(c) *Determination of Attainment.* EPA has determined, as of May 22, 2012, based on ambient air quality data of 2008 to 2010 and the preliminary data of 2011, that the PM_2.5_ nonattainment area of Baltimore, Maryland has attained the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.1004(c), suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, a reasonable further progress plan, contingency measures, and other planning SIPs related to attainment of the standard for as long as this area continues to meet the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(d) *Maintenance Plan and Transportation Conformity Budgets.* EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Maryland portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the State of Maryland for the entire Area on July 10, 2013 and supplemented on July 26, 2013. The maintenance plan includes motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the entire Washington, DC-MD-VA PM_2.5_ Area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS. The MVEBs are based on a tiered approach: Tier 1 MVEBs are effective as EPA has determined them adequate for transportation conformity purposes; Tier 2 mobile budgets will become effective upon the completion of the interagency consultation process and fully documented within the first conformity analysis that uses the Tier 2 MVEBs.


(e) *Maintenance Plan and Transportation Conformity Budgets.* EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Baltimore, MD nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the State of Maryland on December 12, 2013. The maintenance plan includes motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Baltimore, MD Area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.


(f) *Maintenance Plan and Transportation Conformity Budgets.* EPA approves the maintenance plan for the Maryland portion of the Martinsburg, WV-Hagerstown, MD nonattainment area for the 1997 annual PM_2.5_ NAAQS submitted by the State of Maryland on December 12, 2013. The maintenance plan includes motor vehicle emission budgets (MVEBs) to be applied to all future transportation conformity determinations and analyses for the Maryland portion of the Martinsburg, WV-Hagerstown, MD Area for the 1997 PM_2.5_ NAAQS.



---

[N] [74 FR 1148, Jan. 12, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 60203, Nov. 20, 2009; 77 FR 30212, May 22, 2012; 79 FR 60084, Oct. 6, 2014; 79 FR 75034, 75037, Dec. 16, 2014]





