# ยง 353.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms and concepts are defined:


(a) *FEMA* means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.


(b) *NRC* means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


(c) *Certification* means the written justification by a licensee of the need for Federal compensatory assistance, as authorized in 44 CFR part 352 and E.O. 12657.


(d) *Technical assistance* means services provided by FEMA to facilitate offsite radiological emergency planning and preparedness such as provision of support for the preparation of offsite radiological emergency response plans and procedures; provision of advice and recommendations for specific aspects of preparedness such as alert and notification and emergency public information.


(e) *Licensee* means the utility which has applied for or has received a license from the NRC to operate a commercial nuclear power plant.


(f) *Governor* means the Governor of a State or his/her designee.


(g) *RAC* means Regional Assistance Committee chaired by FEMA with representatives from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Energy, Department of Agriculture, Department of Transportation, Department of Commerce and other Federal Departments and agencies as appropriate.


(h) *REP* means FEMA's Radiological Emergency Preparedness Program.


(i) *Fiscal Year* means Federal fiscal year commencing on the first day of October through the thirtieth day of September.


(j) *Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee* is the national level committee chaired by FEMA with representatives from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Interior, Department of Energy, Department of Transportation, United States Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce and other Federal Departments and agencies as appropriate.




