# § 135.621   Briefing of medical personnel.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, prior to each helicopter air ambulance operation, each pilot in command, or other flight crewmember designated by the certificate holder, must ensure that all medical personnel have been briefed on the following—


(1) Passenger briefing requirements in § 135.117(a) and (b); and


(2) Physiological aspects of flight;


(3) Patient loading and unloading;


(4) Safety in and around the helicopter;


(5) In-flight emergency procedures;


(6) Emergency landing procedures;


(7) Emergency evacuation procedures;


(8) Efficient and safe communications with the pilot; and


(9) Operational differences between day and night operations, if appropriate.


(b) The briefing required in paragraphs (a)(2) through (9) of this section may be omitted if all medical personnel on board have satisfactorily completed the certificate holder's FAA-approved medical personnel training program within the preceding 24 calendar months. Each training program must include a minimum of 4 hours of ground training, and 4 hours of training in and around an air ambulance helicopter, on the topics set forth in paragraph (a)(2) through (9) of this section.


(c) Each certificate holder must maintain a record for each person trained under this section that—


(1) Contains the individual's name, the most recent training completion date, and a description, copy, or reference to training materials used to meet the training requirement.


(2) Is maintained for 24 calendar months following the individual's completion of training.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2010-0982, 79 FR 9975, Feb. 21, 2014; Amdt. 135-129A, 79 FR 41126, July 15, 2014]




