# § 165.765   Regulated Navigation Area; Port Everglades Harbor, Fort Lauderdale, Florida.

(a) *Location.* The following area in Port Everglades harbor is a regulated navigation area: all waters of Port Everglades harbor, from shore to shore, encompassed by a line commencing at the south mid-point tip of Harbor Heights approximately 26°05.687′ N, 080°06.684′ W; thence south across Bar Cut to a point north of the Nova University Marina approximately 26°05.552′ N, 080°06.682′ W, thence southwesterly to a point near the center of Lake Mabel approximately 26°05.482′ N, 080°06.793′ W, thence northwesterly to a point near the Quick Flashing Red #12 approximately 26°05.666′ N, 080°06.947′ W, thence east to south mid-point tip of Harbor Heights (starting point) approximately 26°05.687′ N, 080°06.684′ W. 


(b) *Regulations.* Vessels less than 150 meters entering and transiting through the regulated navigation area shall proceed at a slow speed. Nothing in this section alleviates vessels or operators from complying with all state and local laws in the area including manatee slow speed zones. Nor should anything in this section be construed as conflicting with the requirement to operate at safe speed under the Inland Navigation Rules, (33 CFR subchapter E).


(c) *Definition.* As used in this section, *slow speed* means the speed at which a vessel proceeds when it is fully off plane, completely settled in the water and not creating excessive wake. Due to the different speeds at which vessels of different sizes and configurations may travel while in compliance with this definition, no specific speed is assigned to slow speed. A vessel is not proceeding at slow speed if it is: 


(1) On a plane; 


(2) In the process of coming up on or coming off of plane; or 


(3) Creating an excessive wake.



---

[N] [CDG07-03-069, 68 FR 63991, Nov. 12, 2003, as amended by USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44286, July 27, 2015]




