# ยง 167.5   Definitions.

(a) *Area to be avoided* means a routing measure comprising an area within defined limits in which either navigation is particularly hazardous or it is exceptionally important to avoid casualties and which should be avoided by all ships or certain classes of ships. 


(b) *Traffic separation scheme* (TSS) means a designated routing measure which is aimed at the separation of opposing streams of traffic by appropriate means and by the establishment of traffic lanes. 


(c) *Traffic lane* means an area within defined limits in which one-way traffic is established. Natural obstacles, including those forming separation zones, may constitute a boundary.


(d) *Separation zone or line* means a zone or line separating the traffic lanes in which ships are proceeding in opposite or nearly opposite directions; or separating a traffic lane from the adjacent sea area; or separating traffic lanes designated for particular classes of ships proceeding in the same direction.


(e) *Precautionary area* means a routing measure comprising an area within defined limits where ships must navigate with particular caution and within which the direction of traffic flow may be recommended.


(f) *Deep-water route* means an internationally recognized routing measure primarily intended for use by ships that, because of their draft in relation to the available depth of water in the area concerned, require the use of such a route.


(g) *Two-way route* means a route within defined limits inside which two-way traffic is established, aimed at providing safe passage of ships through waters where navigation is difficult or dangerous. 



---

[N] [CGD 81-080, 48 FR 36456, Aug. 11, 1983; 49 FR 15548, Apr. 19, 1984, as amended by CGD 90-039, 59 FR 21937, Apr. 28, 1994; CGD 97-004, 65 FR 12945, Mar. 10, 2000; USCG-1999-5700, 65 FR 46605, July 31, 2000]




