# § 516.31   Industrial homeworkers.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Industrial homeworker* and *homeworker,* as used in this section, mean any employee employed or suffered or permitted to perform industrial homework for an employer.


(2) *Industrial homework,* as used in this section, means the production by any person in or about a home, apartment, tenement, or room in a residential establishment of goods for an employer who suffers or permits such production, regardless of the source (whether obtained from an employer or elsewhere) of the materials used by the homeworker in such production.


(3) The meaning of the terms person, employ, employer, employee, goods, and production as used in this section is the same as in the Act.


(b) *Items required.* In addition to all of the records required by § 516.2, every employer of homeworkers shall maintain and preserve payroll or other records containing the following information and data with respect to each and every industrial homeworker employed (excepting those homeworkers to whom section 13(d) of the Act applies and those homeworkers in Puerto Rico to whom part 545 of this chapter applies, or in the Virgin Islands to whom part 695 of this chapter applies):


(1) With respect to each lot of work:


(i) Date on which work is given out to worker, or begun by worker, and amount of such work given out or begun;


(ii) Date on which work is turned in by worker, and amount of such work;


(iii) Kind of articles worked on and operations performed;


(iv) Piece rates paid;


(v) Hours worked on each lot of work turned in;


(vi) Wages paid for each lot of work turned in.


(2) With respect to any agent, distributor, or contractor: The name and address of each such agent, distributor, or contractor through whom homework is distributed or collected and the name and address of each homeworker to whom homework is distributed or from whom it is collected by each such agent, distributor, or contractor.


(c) *Homeworker handbook.* In addition to the information and data required in paragraph (b) of this section, a separate handbook (to be obtained by the employer from the Wage and Hour Division and supplied by such employer to each worker) shall be kept for each homeworker. The employer is required to insure that the hours worked and other information required therein is entered by the homeworker when work is performed and/or business-related expenses are incurred. This handbook must remain in the possession of the homeworker except at the end of each pay period when it is to be submitted to the employer for transcription of the hours worked and other required information and for computation of wages to be paid. The handbooks shall include a provision for written verification by the employer attesting that the homeworker was instructed to accurately record all of the required information regarding such homeworker's employment, and that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, the information was recorded accurately. Once no space remains in the handbook for additional entries, or upon termination of the homeworker's employment, the handbook shall be returned to the employer. The employer shall then preserve this handbook for at least two years and make it available for inspection by the Wage and Hour Division on request.



---

[N] [52 FR 24896, July 1, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 45726, Nov. 10, 1988]




