# § 165.529   Safety Zone; Gallants Channel, Beaufort, NC.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section—


*Captain of the Port* means the Commander, Coast Guard Sector North Carolina.


*Participant* means an individual or vessel involved with the Crystal Coast Triathlon.


*Representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized to act on the behalf of the Captain of the Port.


(b) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: all navigable waters of Gallants Channel from the Route 70 Bridge in Beaufort, NC, at N 34°43′38″, W 076°40′04″ then North-West to Russel Slough Channel Day-Beacon 10 (LLNR34860) at N 34°43′58″, W 076°40′27.5″.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations governing safety zones in § 165.23 apply to the area described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) With the exception of the participants, entry into or remaining in this safety zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP, Sector North Carolina or a designated representative.


(3) No vessel may be present in the safety zone when it is subject to enforcement, and any vessel in violation of that prohibition must depart the zone immediately.


(4) The COTP North Carolina can be reached through the Coast Guard Sector North Carolina Command Duty Officer, Wilmington, North Carolina, at telephone number 910-343-3882.


(5) The Coast Guard can be contacted on VHF-FM marine band radio channel 13 (165.65 MHz) and channel 16 (156.8 MHz).


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced the second Saturday in May, from 8 a.m. through 10 a.m. The enforcement period may change, but a notice will be provided if there is a change in the enforcement period.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0050, 88 FR 30652, May 12, 2023]






