# ยง 206.221   Definitions.

(a) *Educational institution* means:


(1) Any elementary school as defined by section 801(c) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; or


(2) Any secondary school as defined by section 801(h) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; or


(3) Any institution of higher education as defined by section 1201 of the Higher Education Act of 1965.


(b) *Force account* means an applicant's own labor forces and equipment.


(c) *Immediate threat* means the threat of additional damage or destruction from an event which can reasonably be expected to occur within five years.


(d) *Improved property* means a structure, facility or item of equipment which was built, constructed or manufactured. Land used for agricultural purposes is not improved property.


(e) *Private nonprofit facility* means any private nonprofit educational, utility, emergency, medical, or custodial care facility, including a facility for the aged or disabled, and other facility providing essential governmental type services to the general public, and such facilities on Indian reservations. Further definition is as follows:


(1) *Educational facilities* means classrooms plus related supplies, equipment, machinery, and utilities of an educational institution necessary or appropriate for instructional, administrative, and support purposes, but does not include buildings, structures and related items used primarily for religious purposes or instruction.


(2) *Utility* means buildings, structures, or systems of energy, communication, water supply, sewage collection and treatment, or other similar public service facilities.


(3) *Irrigation facility* means those facilities that provide water for essential services of a governmental nature to the general public. Irrigation facilities include water for fire suppression, generating and supplying electricity, and drinking water supply; they do not include water for agricultural purposes. 


(4) *Emergency facility* means those buildings, structures, equipment, or systems used to provide emergency services, such as fire protection, ambulance, or rescue, to the general public, including the administrative and support facilities essential to the operation of such emergency facilities even if not contiguous.


(5) *Medical facility* means any hospital, outpatient facility, rehabilitation facility, or facility for long term care as such terms are defined in section 645 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 2910) and any similar facility offering diagnosis or treatment of mental or physical injury or disease, including the administrative and support facilities essential to the operation of such medical facilities even if not contiguous.


(6) *Custodial care facility* means those buildings, structures, or systems including those for essential administration and support, which are used to provide institutional care for persons who require close supervision and some physical constraints on their daily activities for their self-protection, but do not require day-to-day medical care.


(7) *Other essential governmental service facility* means museums, zoos, community centers, libraries, homeless shelters, senior citizen centers, rehabilitation facilities, shelter workshops and facilities which provide health and safety services of a governmental nature. All such facilities must be open to the general public.


(f) *Private nonprofit organization* means any nongovernmental agency or entity that currently has:


(1) An effective ruling letter from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, granting tax exemption under sections 501(c), (d), or (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or


(2) Satisfactory evidence from the State that the nonrevenue producing organization or entity is a nonprofit one organized or doing business under State law.


(g) *Public entity* means an organization formed for a public purpose whose direction and funding are provided by one or more political subdivisions of the State.


(h) *Public facility* means the following facilities owned by a State or local government: any flood control, navigation, irrigation, reclamation, public power, sewage treatment and collection, water supply and distribution, watershed development, or airport facility; any non-Federal aid, street, road, or highway; and any other public building, structure, or system, including those used for educational, recreational, or cultural purposes; or any park.


(i) *Standards* means codes, specifications or standards required for the construction of facilities.



---

[N] [55 FR 2307, Jan. 23, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 47994, Sept. 14, 1993; 66 FR 22445, May 4, 2001]




