# § 32.55   Oklahoma.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Deep Fork National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, dark geese, merganser, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure.


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting on Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, and Mondays, from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.


(iii) You may only use portable blinds or blinds constructed of natural dead vegetation. You must remove blinds, decoys, stands, and all personal equipment at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of fox and gray squirrel, swamp and cottontail rabbit, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow shotguns, .22- and .17-caliber rimfire rifles, and pistols for rabbit and squirrel hunting.


(iii) For raccoon hunting only, we allow hunting from legal sunset to legal sunrise only.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, wild turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure for the archery deer hunt. Hunters must turn in a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) by December 31 annually. Failure to submit the report will render the hunter ineligible for the next year's limited season archery deer hunt.


(ii) We will offer a limited season archery deer hunt following the controlled deer hunt.


(iii) You may hunt feral hog during any established refuge hunting season.


(iv) Hunters may place no more than one stand on the refuge. You may place stands starting on the day the hunt begins. You must remove stands the day the hunt ends (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow year-round fishing on the Deep Fork River and at the Montezuma Creek Fishing Area. We allow fishing on all other sloughs, farm ponds, and impoundments not connected to the River from March 1 through October 31.


(ii) We allow bowfishing on the refuge from legal sunrise to legal sunset from March 1 to September 30.


(iii) We prohibit snagging and netting.


(iv) We allow the use of trotlines, juglines, limblines, and yo-yos only in the Deep Fork River; we prohibit their use in any other areas on the refuge.


(b) *Little River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may only use portable blinds. You must remove blinds, decoys, and all personal equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) You may hunt from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon) each day.


(iii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting.


(iv) We close the refuge to duck hunting during controlled deer hunts.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of gray and fox squirrel, eastern cottontail and swamp rabbit, beaver, coyote, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We open squirrel season from May 15 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen squirrel season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 31.


(ii) We open rabbit season from October 1 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen rabbit season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 31.


(iii) You may take beaver, raccoon, and coyote as incidental take to any daytime established refuge hunt with legal weapons and a signed hunt brochure for the current hunt season.


(iv) Hunters may only hunt upland game during designated refuge seasons.


(v) We allow the use of dogs when hunting squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We open the deer archery season from October 1 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen deer season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 15.


(ii) We open the deer gun season during the months of October and November. Hunters must pay a fee and obtain a controlled hunt permit through the State.


(iii) We open the turkey archery season from October 1 through the Friday before the State deer muzzleloader season. We reopen turkey season on the Monday after the last refuge controlled deer hunt through January 15.


(iv) We open the turkey gun season during the month of April. Hunters must pay a fee and obtain a controlled hunt permit through the State.


(v) Shotgun hunters may only possess approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field while hunting turkey.


(vi) You may hunt feral hog during any established refuge hunting season. Signed refuge hunt brochure and legal weapons apply for the current hunting season.


(vii) Hunters may only hunt big game during designated refuge seasons.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(c) *Optima National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of ring-necked pheasant, bobwhite and scaled quail, cottontail rabbit, and jackrabbit on the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow only shotguns for upland game hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, mule deer, and turkey on the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow archery and shotguns during spring turkey season.


(ii) We allow only archery hunting during fall seasons.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Ozark Plateau National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of cottontail rabbit and gray and fox squirrel on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure.


(ii) We prohibit falconry.


(iii) The only allowed methods of take are shotguns, .17 or .22 rimfire rifle, and archery equipment as governed by State regulations.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hogs on designated portions of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We only allow the use of archery equipment.


(iii) We allow the use of portable deer stands only. You must remove stand(s) from the refuge within 2 days of the last day of the season (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We allow the incidental take of feral hogs during the deer, rabbit, and squirrel hunting seasons.


(4) [Reserved]


(e) *Salt Plains National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, American coot, sandhill crane, mourning dove, white-winged dove, Eurasian collared dove, and rock dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon).


(ii) We open public hunting areas to all access 2 hours prior to legal shooting time, and close those areas at 12 p.m. (noon).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of northern bobwhite quail and ring-necked pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, wild turkey, American beaver, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a limited hunt permit (State-issued) for controlled hunts for deer and spring wild turkey hunts.


(ii) White-tailed deer and wild turkey hunters may place no more than one stand/blind on the refuge. You may place stands starting on the day the hunt begins. You must remove stands the day the hunt ends (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) White-tailed deer and wild turkey hunters must check-in and out at a refuge check station. Refuge staff provide a hunter briefing as part of check-in.


(iv) You may take feral hogs and American beaver only as incidental game during a controlled hunt, open upland game season, or open migratory game bird season using a State-approved method of take for that season.


(v) Wild turkey hunters must use and only possess approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from April 1 through October 15.


(ii) We prohibit the use of netting, seines, cast nets, trawls, dip nets, and traps.


(iii) Posts used to secure or anchor trotlines must reach a minimum of 2 feet (30 centimeters) above the water surface, and you must mark them to make them clearly visible to boaters. You must remove posts when they are not in use (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We only allow youth and persons with disabilities to fish on Bonham Pond subject to the following conditions:


(A) We open to fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(B) We limit anglers to one pole per person.


(C) We restrict Bonham Pond to catch-and-release fishing only.


(f) *Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, mourning dove, American coot, snipe, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt brochure.


(ii) We open the refuge to hunting only on Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays, and Tuesdays. We allow hunters to enter the Sandtown Bottom Unit or any portion of Sally Jones Lake beginning at 5 a.m., and hunters must leave the area by 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 50 feet (15 meters) of designated roads or parking areas.


(iv) You must remove stands, blinds, boats, and other personal property from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit hunters from using refuge boat ramps to access hunting areas outside the refuge boundary:


(A) On days when we close the refuge to hunting for certain species; and/or


(B) When hunting species that we do not allow to be hunted on the refuge.


(vi) We restrict the use of airboats within the refuge boundary to the navigation channel and the designated hunting areas from September 1 through March 31.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of Eastern gray and fox squirrel and swamp and Eastern cottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section apply.


(ii) Season lengths and bag limits will be governed by State regulations with the exception that all upland game hunting will close on January 31 of each year.


(iii) We only allow legal shotguns, and .22 and .17 rimfire rifles, for hunting upland game. You must plug hunting shotguns so that they are incapable of holding more than three shells.


(iv) The east portion of the Sandtown Bottom Unit and the portion of Robert S. Kerr Reservoir, from Tuff boat ramp to the confluence of Vian Creek, are designated as a waterfowl sanctuary that we close to all entry, except for the designated hiking trail, from September 1 through March 31. The closed area is marked with signs and buoys.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, wild turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) and (vi) of this section apply.


(ii) We require a limited hunt permit (State-issued) for controlled hunts for muzzleloader and archery deer, and for spring wild turkey hunts.


(iii) Hunters must apply to the State-controlled deer hunt drawing administered by the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation for selection. You must attend a pre-hunt briefing.


(iv) Incidental take of feral hogs may occur during deer, wild turkey, rabbit, and squirrel hunting seasons.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing and frogging on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit fishing or frogging from September 1 through March 31 in the waterfowl sanctuary south of refuge headquarters, as designated by buoys and signs.


(ii) You must remove setlines (trotlines, throwlines, juglines, limblines, yo-yos) from the waterfowl sanctuary before September 1 (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(v) and (vii) of this section apply.


(iv) We prohibit the take of reptiles, amphibians (except bullfrogs), mollusks, and crayfish (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit the use of setlines in creeks and tributaries entering the Arkansas River or Canadian River on the refuge.


(g) *Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of duck, teal, light geese, dark geese, snipe, gallinule, American coot, and merganser on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the hunting of migratory birds every day, but waterfowl hunters must be off the unit by 1 p.m.


(ii) Hunters must possess and carry a signed hunt brochure.


(iii) We require the hunters to self-check-in and self-check-out.


(iv) We allow only shotguns for hunting.


(v) We prohibit falconry.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section applies.


(ii) We require State-controlled deer hunt drawing hunters to attend a pre-hunt briefing.


(iii) You may hunt feral hog during any established refuge hunting season, using the weapon authorized for that particular hunt.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Anglers may bank and wade fish with pole and line or rod and reel year-round.


(ii) Anglers may use boats from March 1 through September 30 in designated waters unless otherwise specified on the fishing brochure.


(iii) Anglers may “no-wake” boat fish during the boating season with line and pole or rod and reel, except in areas designated as sanctuary zones.


(iv) Anglers may use trotlines and other set tackle only in the Cumberland Pool (designated areas), Rock Creek, and between the natural banks of the Washita River. Anglers may only use set tackle with anchored floats.


(v) We prohibit use of limblines, throwlines, juglines, and yo-yos.


(vi) We prohibit use of any containers (jugs, bottles) as floats.


(vii) Anglers may fish after legal sunset from a boat (during boating season) in the Cumberland Pool, except in the sanctuary zones. Anglers may fish after legal sunset at the headquarters boat ramp area, Goose Pen Pond, Sandy Creek Bridge, Murray 23, and Nida Point.


(viii) We allow bowfishing in Pennington Creek and the Washita River during daylight hours.


(ix) We prohibit the take of fish by use of hands (noodling).


(x) We prohibit the take of frog, turtle, or mussel (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(h) *Tishomingo Wildlife Management Unit*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove and waterfowl on the Tishomingo Wildlife Management Unit of Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, turkey, and rabbit on the Tishomingo Wildlife Management Unit of Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on the Tishomingo Wildlife Management Unit of Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on the Tishomingo Wildlife Management Unit of Tishomingo National Wildlife Refuge.


(i) *Washita National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, merganser, sandhill crane, mourning, white-winged, and Eurasian collared-dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require hunters to carry a signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting duck, goose, merganser, and sandhill crane.


(ii) Duck, goose, merganser, and sandhill crane hunters must hunt only in designated fields on specified days at specified hours.


(iii) We prohibit bringing natural vegetation from outside the refuge onto the refuge to construct temporary blinds. You must remove temporary blinds, decoys, and other hunting equipment from the refuge at the end of each hunt day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of bobwhite quail, cottontail rabbit, and black-tailed jackrabbit on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and Rio Grande wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow deer and feral hog hunting during the special refuge season. We will hold turkey hunts during the State spring turkey season.


(ii) You must check in and out of hunt areas daily at the refuge office or check station.


(iii) You must take bagged deer, hog, and/or turkey to the refuge check station.


(iv) We will determine bag limits on deer and turkey annually.


(v) We prohibit using handguns for hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Anglers may fish from March 15 through October 14 in the Washita River and Foss Reservoir.


(ii) Anglers may bank fish year-round in the Washita River and Foss Reservoir from open areas.


(j) *Wichita Mountains National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, merganser, and coot on designated portions of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must possess a current signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit waterfowl hunting during the refuge controlled elk and deer hunts.


(iii) We allow waterfowl hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.


(iv) We allow the use of hunting dogs only for waterfowl hunting.


(v) You may only build blinds constructed of natural vegetation materials from the refuge.


(vi) Hunters must remove decoys and blinds from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vii) We prohibit jump shooting.


(viii) We prohibit hunting within 400 feet (122 meters) of any paved road, parking area, or building/dwelling.


(ix) We prohibit shooting from or across any designated trail, road, or parking area.


(x) We prohibit the use of motorized decoys in portions of the refuge designated as wilderness area.


(xi) We prohibit the use of game carts or other mechanical transportation devices on portions of the refuge designated as wilderness area.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, turkey, and white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow elk, deer, and turkey hunting only during the State-controlled hunt program.


(ii) We allow only five (5) rounds of ammunition per day during controlled elk and white-tailed deer hunts.


(iii) We allow elk and deer hunting with centerfire rifles only; the minimum calibers are .243 for deer and .270 caliber for elk.


(iv) You must possess only approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field while hunting turkey.


(v) You must check all harvested elk and deer through the refuge check station, and attach a metal transportation tag, before leaving refuge property.


(vi) We only allow use of archery equipment and shotgun or muzzleloader with a shot size of #2 or smaller for turkey hunting. We prohibit crossbows.


(vii) You may take feral hogs and coyote only during controlled hunts with weapons approved for that hunt.


(viii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(viii) and (xi) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may take fish only with pole and line or rod and reel.


(ii) We prohibit taking of frogs and turtles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) Anglers may use motorized boats on Elmer Thomas Lake; however, we enforce a no-wake rule on the lake.


(iv) Anglers may use hand-powered boats or boats 14 feet or less in length with an electric trolling motor only on Elmer Thomas, Jed Johnson, Rush, Quanah Parker, and French Lakes.


(v) We allow fishing after legal sunset on the refuge including by boat, but we prohibit all other boating after legal sunset.


(vi) We prohibit fishing from public roadways and bridges opened to motorized vehicles.


(vii) We allow wading when fishing, provided that wading anglers must use tube-type floaters, life jackets, or buoyant vests.


(viii) We close Kiowa Lake to fishing except for shoreline fishing associated with a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service-sponsored aquatic education program.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54137, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48874, Aug. 31, 2021]








