# § 9.65   North Fork of Roanoke.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “North Fork of Roanoke.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the North Fork of Roanoke viticultural area are six U.S.G.S. Virginia, 7.5 minute series maps. They are:


(1) McDonalds Mill Quadrangle, 1965;


(2) Glenvar Quadrangle, 1965;


(3) Elliston Quadrangle, 1965;


(4) Ironto Quadrangle, 1965;


(5) Blacksburg Quadrangle, 1965; and


(6) Newport Quadrangle, 1965.


(c) *Boundaries.* The North Fork of Roanoke viticultural area is located in parts of Roanoke and Montgomery Counties in southern Virginia.


(1) The point of the beginning is in the north at the intersection of State Routes 785 and 697 in Roanoke County.


(2) Then the boundary follows State Route 697 northeast over Crawford Ridge to the intersection at State Route 624.


(3) Then the boundary turns southwest on State Route 624 along the boundary of the Jefferson National Forest and then continues across the Montgomery County line to U.S. 460 (business).


(4) Then the boundary follows U.S. Route 460 (business) south through the town of Blacksburg.


(5) Then the boundary continues on U.S. Route 460 (bypass) to the intersection of U.S. Route 460 East, where it turns east for approximately one mile to the intersection of U.S. Interstate Highway 81 at Interchange 37.


(6) Then the boundary continues northeast on Interstate Highway 81 to its intersection with State Route 603 at interchange 38.


(7) Then the boundary continues northwest on State Route 603 to its intersection with State Route 629.


(8) Then the boundary follows State Route 629 (which later becomes State Route 622 north of Brandshaw Creek) 2 miles across the Roanoke County line to where it intersects the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company right-of-way.


(9) Then the boundary turns northwest along the C & P right-of-way over Pearis Mountain to the point where the right-of-way intersects State Route 785, one quarter mile northeast of the intersections of State Routes 785 and 697.


(10) Then the boundary follows State Route 784 back to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-129, 48 FR 16250, Apr. 15, 1983, as amended by T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5958, Feb. 27, 1987]




