# § 165.722   Security Zone: St. Johns River, Jacksonville, Florida.

(a) Location. The water located within the following area is established as a security zone: beginning at the shoreline of the St. Johns River at the northernmost property line of Naval Air Station Jacksonville next to Timuquana Country Club, at 30°14′39.5″ N, 81°40′45″ W; thence northeasterly to 30°14′42″ N, 81°40′42″ W; thence south remaining 400 feet from the shoreline at mean high water; thence past Piney Point and Black Point to the northern edge of Mulberry Cover Manatee refuge, 400 feet from Naval Air Station Jacksonville boat ramp, at 30°13′00″ N, 81°40′23.5″ W; thence southwesterly in a straight line to position 30°12′14″ N, 81°40′42″ W; thence southerly, remaining 400′ seaward of the mean high water shoreline to 30°11′40″ N, 81°41′15.5″ W; thence northwest to the point at the end of the property line of Naval Air Station Jacksonville just north of the Buckman Bridge at position 30°11′42.30″ N, 81°41′23.66″ W; thence northeasterly along the mean high water shoreline of the St. Johns River and Mulberry Cove to the point of beginning. Datum: NAD 83


(b) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.33 of this part, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the zone without the permission of the Captain of the Port Jacksonville, Florida. All other portions of § 165.33 remain applicable.


(c) This regulation does not apply to Coast Guard vessels and authorized law enforcement vessels operating within the Security Zone.



---

[N] [COTP Jacksonville Reg. 93-115, 60 FR 65571, Dec. 20, 1995]




