# § 73.1200   Notification of physical security events.

(a) *15-minute notifications—facilities.* Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.51, or § 73.55 of this part must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, as soon as possible but within 15 minutes after—


(1) The licensee's initiation of a security response in accordance with its safeguards contingency plan or protective strategy, based on an imminent or actual hostile action against a licensee's facility; or


(2) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or act of sabotage anticipated within the next 12 hours against a licensee's facility.


(3) Licensee notifications to the NRC must:


(i) Identify the facility's name; and


(ii) Briefly describe the nature of the hostile action or event, including:


(A) The type of hostile action or event (e.g., armed assault, vehicle bomb, bomb threat, sabotage, etc.); and


(B) The current status (*i.e.,* imminent, in progress, or neutralized).


(4) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(5) The licensee is not required to notify the NRC of security responses initiated as a result of threat or warning information communicated to the licensee from the NRC.


(6) The licensee's request for immediate local law enforcement agency (LLEA) assistance or initiation of a contingency response may take precedence over the notification to the NRC. However, in such instances, the licensee must notify the NRC as soon as possible thereafter.


(b) *15-minute notifications—shipments.* Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, or § 73.37 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, as soon as possible but within 15 minutes after—


(1) The licensee's initiation of a security response in accordance with its safeguards contingency plan or protective strategy, based on an imminent or actual hostile action against a shipment of Category I SSNM, spent nuclear fuel (SNF), or high-level radioactive waste (HLW); or


(2) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or attempted act of sabotage anticipated within less than the next 12 hours against a shipment of Category I SSNM, SNF, or HLW.


(3) Licensee notifications to the NRC must:


(i) Identify the name of the facility making the shipment, the material being shipped, and the last known location of the shipment; and


(ii) Briefly describe the nature of the threat or event, including:


(A) Type of hostile threat or event (e.g., armed assault, vehicle bomb, theft of shipment, sabotage, etc.); and


(B) Threat or event status (*i.e.,* imminent, in progress, or neutralized).


(4) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(5) The licensee is not required to notify the NRC of security responses initiated as a result of threat or warning information communicated to the licensee from the NRC.


(6) The licensee's request for immediate LLEA assistance may take precedence over the notification to the NRC. However, in such instances, the licensee must notify the NRC as soon as possible thereafter.


(c) *One-hour notifications—facilities.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant facility security events involving—


(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:


(A) The theft or diversion of a Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM or a Category II or III quantity of special nuclear material (SNM);


(B) Significant physical damage to any nuclear power reactor, to a facility possessing a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, or to a facility storing or disposing of SNF and/or HLW;


(C) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear power reactor's controls or with structures, systems, and components (SSCs) that results in the interruption of normal operation of the reactor; or


(D) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any Category I SSNM facility's SSCs that results in an accidental criticality.


(ii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the introduction beyond the vehicle barrier of a quantity of unauthorized explosives that meets or exceeds the relevant facility's adversary characteristics.


(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at the Protected Area boundary.


(iii) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or act of sabotage anticipated within greater than 12 hours against a licensee's facility.


(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(3) Notifications made under paragraph (a) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(4) As an exemption, licensees subject to § 73.50, § 73.60, or § 73.67 are not required to make notifications for events listed under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.


(d) *One-hour notifications—shipments.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible but no later than 1 hour after the time of discovery of the following significant transportation security events involving—


(i) Any event in which there is reason to believe that a person has committed or caused, or attempted to commit or cause, or has made a threat to commit or cause:


(A) The theft or diversion of the Category I, II, or III quantity of SSNM; a Category II or III quantity of SNM; SNF; or HLW being transported;


(B) Significant physical damage to any vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or


(C) Significant physical damage to the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported.


(ii) The discovery of the loss of a shipment of Category I SSNM.


(iii) The recovery of, or accounting for, a lost shipment of Category I SSNM.


(iv) The licensee's notification by law enforcement or government officials of a potential hostile action or attempted act of sabotage anticipated within greater than the next 12 hours against a shipment of Category I quantities of SSNM, SNF, or HLW.


(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(3) Notifications made under paragraph (b) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(e) *Four-hour notifications—facilities.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 of this part must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 4 hours after time of discovery of the following facility security events involving—


(i) The actual access of an unauthorized person into a facility's protected area (PA), vital area (VA), material access area (MAA), or controlled access area (CAA);


(ii) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into a PA, VA, MAA, or CAA;


(iii) The actual introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;


(iv) The attempted introduction of contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA.


(v)(A) The discovery that a weapon that is authorized by the licensee's security plan is lost or uncontrolled within a PA, VA, or MAA;


(B) Uncontrolled authorized weapons are defined as weapons that are authorized by the licensee's security plan and are not in the possession of authorized personnel or are not in an authorized weapons storage location;


(vi) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear reactor or Category I SSNM facility's controls or SSCs that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set;


(vii) The identification or discovery of a previously unrecognized or unidentified vulnerability that could prevent the implementation of the licensee's protective strategy for protecting any target set; or


(viii)(A) For licensees required to have a vehicle barrier system protecting their facility, the identification or discovery at or beyond the vehicle barrier of unauthorized explosives.


(B) This provision is applicable to facilities where the vehicle barrier system protecting the facility is located at a distance from the Protected Area boundary greater than that assumed in the facility's blast analysis.


(2) An event related to the licensee's implementation of their security program for which a notification was made to local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials provided that the event does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.


(3)(i) An event involving a law enforcement response to the facility that could reasonably be expected to result in public or media inquiries and that does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, or in other NRC regulations such as § 50.72(b)(2)(xi) of this chapter.


(ii) As an exemption, licensees need not report law enforcement responses to minor incidents, such as traffic accidents.


(4) For licensees subject to the provisions of § 73.55 of this part, an event involving the licensee's suspension of security measures.


(5) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(6) Notifications made under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(f) *Four-hour notifications—shipments.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 4 hours after time of discovery of the following transportation security events involving—


(i) The actual access of an unauthorized person into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;


(ii) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;


(iii) The actual access of an unauthorized person into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;


(iv) The attempted access of an unauthorized person into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;


(v) The actual introduction of contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;


(vi) The attempted introduction of contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW;


(vii) The actual introduction of contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;


(viii) The attempted introduction of contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;


(ix) The discovery of the loss of a shipment of Category II or III quantities of SSNM, Category II or III quantities of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or


(x) The recovery of or accounting for a lost shipment of Category II or III quantities of SSNM, Category II or III quantities of SNM, SNF, or HLW.


(2) An event related to the licensee's implementation of their security program for which a notification was made to local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials, provided that the event does not otherwise require a notification under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.


(3) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(4) Notifications made under paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(g) *Eight-hour notifications—facilities.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.45, § 73.46, § 73.50, § 73.51, § 73.55, § 73.60, or § 73.67 must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 8 hours after time of discovery of the following facility security program failures involving—


(i) Any failure, degradation, or vulnerability in a security or safeguards system, for which compensatory measures have not been employed within the required timeframe, that could allow unauthorized or undetected access of—


(A) Unauthorized personnel into a PA, VA, MAA, or CAA; or


(B) Contraband into a PA, VA, or MAA;


(ii) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any nuclear power reactor's controls or with SSCs that does not result in the interruption of normal operation of the reactor; or


(iii) The unauthorized operation, manipulation, or tampering with any Category I SSNM facility's SSCs that does not result in the interruption of normal operation of the facility or an accidental criticality.


(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(3) Notifications made under paragraphs (a), (c), and (e) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(h) *Eight-hour notifications—shipments.* (1) Each licensee subject to the provisions of § 73.20, § 73.25, § 73.26, § 73.27, § 73.37, or § 73.67 or its designated movement control center must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center within 8 hours after time of discovery of the following transportation security program failures involving any failure, degradation, or vulnerability in a security or safeguards system, for which compensatory measures have not been employed within the required timeframe, that could allow unauthorized or undetected access of—


(i) Personnel or contraband into a transport vehicle transporting a Category I or II quantity of SSNM, a Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW; or


(ii) Personnel or contraband into the Category I or II quantity of SSNM, Category II quantity of SNM, SNF, or HLW being transported;


(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(3) Notifications made under paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section are not required to be repeated under this paragraph.


(i) through (l) [Reserved]


(m) *Enhanced weapons notifications—stolen or lost.* (1) Each licensee possessing enhanced weapons in accordance with § 73.15 must—


(i) Immediately notify the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) upon discovery of any stolen or lost enhanced weapons (see 27 CFR 479.141).


(ii) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 1 hour, after notification to the ATF of the discovery of any stolen or lost enhanced weapons possessed by the licensee.


(iii) Notify the appropriate local law enforcement agency (LLEA) officials as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours, after the discovery of stolen or lost enhanced weapons. This notification must be made by telephone or in person to the appropriate LLEA officials. Licensees must include appropriate point of contact information in their security event notification procedures.


(2) Notifications to the NRC must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(n) *Enhanced weapons—adverse ATF findings.* (1) Each licensee possessing enhanced weapons in accordance with § 73.15 must—


(i) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours, after receipt of an adverse inspection finding, enforcement finding, or other adverse notice from the ATF regarding the licensee's possession, receipt, transfer, transportation, or storage of enhanced weapons; and


(ii) Notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after receipt of an adverse inspection finding, enforcement finding or other adverse notice from the ATF regarding any ATF issued Federal firearms license to the NRC licensee.


(2) Notifications must be made according to paragraph (o) of this section, as applicable.


(o) *Notification process.* (1) Each licensee must make the telephonic notifications to the NRC required by paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center via any available telephone system. Commercial telephone numbers for the NRC Headquarters Operations Center are specified in Table 1 of appendix A of this part.


(2) Licensees must make required telephonic notifications via any method that will ensure that a report is received by the NRC Headquarters Operations Center or other specified government officials within the timeliness requirements of paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section, as applicable.


(3) Notifications required by this section that contain Safeguards Information may be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center without using secure communications systems under the exception of § 73.22(f)(3) for the communication of emergency or extraordinary conditions.


(4)(i) Notifications required by this section that contain classified national security information and/or classified restricted data must be made to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center using secure communications systems appropriate to the classification level of the message. Licensees making classified telephonic notifications must contact the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the commercial numbers specified in Table 1 of appendix A to this part and request a transfer to a secure telephone, as specified in paragraph III of appendix A to this part.


(ii) If the licensee's secure communications capability is unavailable (e.g., due to the nature of the security event), the licensee must provide to the NRC the information required by this section, without revealing or discussing any classified information, in order to meet the timeliness requirements of this section. The licensee must also indicate to the NRC that its secure communications capability is unavailable.


(iii) Licensees using a non-secure communications capability may be directed by the NRC emergency response management, in accordance with 32 CFR 2001.52(a), to provide classified national security information to the NRC over the non-secure system, due to the significance of the ongoing security event. In such circumstances, the licensee must document this direction and any information provided to the NRC over a non-secure communications capability in the follow-up written report required in accordance with § 73.1205.


(5) For events reported under paragraph (a) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible.


(i) Licensees must establish the requested continuous communications channel once the licensee has completed other required notifications under this section, § 50.72 of this chapter, appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, § 70.50 of this chapter; or § 72.75 of this chapter; as appropriate.


(ii) Licensees must complete any immediate actions required to stabilize the plant, to place the plant in a safe condition, to implement defensive measures, or to request assistance from the LLEA.


(iii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations from a location deemed appropriate by the licensee.


(iv) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.


(6) For events reported under paragraph (b) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee or its movement control center establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center as soon as possible.


(i) Licensees must establish the requested continuous communications channel once the licensee or the movement control center has completed other required notifications under this section, § 50.72 of this chapter, appendix E to part 50 of this chapter, or § 70.50 of this chapter; § 72.75 of this chapter; or requested assistance from the LLEA, as appropriate.


(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations or the movement control center monitoring the shipment.


(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.


(7)(i) For events reported under paragraphs (c), (e), (g), and (m) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.


(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the licensee's security, operations, or emergency response organizations from a location deemed appropriate by the licensee.


(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.


(8)(i) For events reported under paragraphs (d), (f), and (h) of this section, the NRC may request that the licensee or the movement control center establish and maintain an open and continuous communications channel with the NRC Headquarters Operations Center.


(ii) When established, the continuous communications channel must be staffed by a knowledgeable individual in the movement control center monitoring the shipment.


(iii) The continuous communications channel may be established via any available telephone system.


(p) *Significant supplemental information.* Licensees identifying significant supplemental information for events reported under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, subsequent to the initial telephonic notification to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center, must notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center of such supplemental information under paragraph (o) of this section.


(q) *Retraction of previous security event reports.* (1) Licensees desiring to retract a previous physical security event notification made under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, which have been determined to be invalid, not reportable in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section, or recharacterized as recordable under § 73.1210 of this part (instead of reportable under § 73.1200), must telephonically notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center in accordance with paragraph (o) of this section and indicate the report that is being retracted and the basis for the retraction.


(2) Invalid, not reportable, or recharacterized events include, but are not limited to, events for which the licensee subsequently receives new information regarding the event or relevant information from an external entity (e.g., the initial information on a reportable event is subsequently determined to be incorrect or a law enforcement determination is made on the absence of a malevolent intent).


(r) *Declaration of emergencies.* Licensees notifying the NRC of the declaration of an emergency class must do so in accordance with §§ 50.72, 63.73, 70.50, and 72.75 of this chapter, as applicable.


(s) *Elimination of duplication.* Licensees with notification obligations under paragraphs (a) through (h), (m), and (n) of this section and §§ 50.72, 63.73, 70.50, and 72.75 of this chapter may notify the NRC of events in a single communication. This communication must identify each regulation under which the licensee is reporting.


(t) *Classified information.* Licensee notifications regarding security events associated with the deliberate disclosure, theft, loss, compromise, or possible compromise of classified documents, information, or material must comply with the requirements found in § 95.57 of this chapter.






