# § 510.21   SIC codes.

(a) The Conference Report specifically cites Puerto Rico's annual Census of Manufacturing Industries as a source of average hourly wage data by industry. Industries in that census are organized by Standard Industrial Classification (SIC), the statistical classification system used for a variety of governmental and statistical purposes. With respect to non-manufacturing industries, or other industries not included in the Census of Manufacturing, the Conference Report stated that data “should be at a level of specificity comparable to the four digit Standard Industry Code (SIC) code level.”


(b) The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes listed in appendix A and B herein are designated in accordance with the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Manual, 1987, published by the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. Copies may be inspected at all federal depository libraries in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; at the district office of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, New San Juan Office Building, 159 Chardon St., room 102, Hato Rey, PR 00918; at the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Department of Labor and Human Resources, Prudencio Rivera Building, Munoz Rivera Avenue 505, Mato Rey, PR 00918; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* Establishments are classified according to their primary activity. The classification structure classifies industries by:


(1) Two-digit major group,


(2) Three digit industry group, or


(3) Four-digit industry code, according to the level of industrial detail which may be required.



---

[N] [55 FR 12120, Mar. 30, 1990; 55 FR 12778, Apr. 5, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




