# § 76.401   Disapproval of an application—opportunity for a hearing.

(a) *State educational agency hearing regarding disapproval of an application.* When financial assistance is provided to (or through) a State educational agency (SEA) consistent with an approved State plan and the SEA takes final action by disapproving or failing to approve an application for a subgrant in whole or in part, the SEA must provide the aggrieved applicant with notice and an opportunity for a hearing regarding the SEA's disapproval or failure to approve the application.


(b) *Applicant request for SEA hearing.* (1) The aggrieved applicant must request a hearing within 30 days of the final action of the SEA.


(2) The aggrieved applicant's request for a hearing must include, at a minimum, a citation to the specific State or Federal statute, rule, regulation, or guideline that the SEA allegedly violated when disapproving or failing to approve the application in whole or in part and a brief description of the alleged violation.


(3) The SEA must make available, at reasonable times and places to each applicant, all records of the SEA pertaining to the SEA's failure to approve the application in whole or in part that is the subject of the applicant's request for a hearing under this paragraph (b).


(c) *SEA hearing procedures.* (1) Within 30 days after it receives a request that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the SEA must hold a hearing on the record to review its action.


(2) No later than 10 days after the hearing, the SEA must issue its written ruling, including findings of fact and reasons for the ruling.


(3) If the SEA determines that its action was contrary to State or Federal statutes, rules, regulations, or guidelines that govern the applicable program, the SEA must rescind its action in whole or in part.


(d) *Procedures for appeal of SEA action to the Secretary.* (1) If an SEA does not rescind its final action disapproving or failing to approve an application in whole or in part after the SEA conducts a hearing consistent with paragraph (c) of this section, the applicant may appeal the SEA's final action to the Secretary.


(2) The applicant must file a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 20 days after the applicant has received the SEA's written ruling.


(3) The applicant's notice of appeal must include, at a minimum, a citation to the specific Federal statute, rule, regulation, or guideline that the SEA allegedly violated and a brief description of the alleged violation.


(4) The Secretary may issue interim orders at any time when considering the appeal, including requesting the hearing record and any additional documentation, such as additional documentation regarding the information provided pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(5) After considering the appeal, the Secretary issues an order either affirming the final action of the SEA or requiring the SEA to take appropriate action, if the Secretary determines that the final action of the SEA was contrary to a Federal statute, rule, regulation, or guideline that governs the applicable program.


(e) *Programs administered by State agencies other than an SEA.* Under programs with an approved State plan under which financial assistance is provided to (or through) a State agency that is not the SEA, that State agency is not required to comply with this section unless specifically required to do so by Federal statute or regulation.



---

[N] [89 FR 70336, Aug. 29, 2024]












