# § 250.1700   What do the terms “decommissioning,” “obstructions,” “facility,” and “predecessor” mean in this subpart?

(a) *Decommissioning* means:


(1) Ending oil, gas, or sulphur operations; and


(2) Returning the lease, pipeline right-of-way, or the area of a right-of-use and easement to a condition that meets the requirements of BSEE and other agencies that have jurisdiction over decommissioning activities.


(b) *Obstructions* mean structures, equipment, or objects that were used in oil, gas, or sulphur operations or marine growth that, if left in place, would hinder other users of the OCS. Obstructions may include, but are not limited to, shell mounds, wellheads, casing stubs, mud line suspensions, well protection devices, subsea trees, jumper assemblies, umbilicals, manifolds, termination skids, production and pipeline risers, platforms, templates, pilings, pipelines, pipeline valves, and power cables.


(c) *Facility* means any installation other than a pipeline used for oil, gas, or sulphur activities that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed on the OCS. Facilities include production and pipeline risers, templates, pilings, and any other facility or equipment that constitutes an obstruction such as jumper assemblies, termination skids, umbilicals, anchors, and mooring lines.


(d) *Predecessor* means a prior lessee or owner of operating rights, or a prior holder of a right-of-use and easement grant or a pipeline right-of-way grant, that is liable for accrued obligations on that lease or grant.



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 23579, Apr. 18, 2023]






