# § 61.270   Applicability and designation of sources.

(a) The source to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel that is storing benzene having a specific gravity within the range of specific gravities specified in ASTM D836-84 for Industrial Grade Benzene, ASTM D835-85 for Refined Benzene-485, ASTM D2359-85a or 93 for Refined Benzene-535, and ASTM D4734-87 or 96 for Refined Benzene-545. These specifications are incorporated by reference as specified in § 61.18. See § 61.18 for acceptable versions of these methods. 


(b) Except for paragraph (b) in § 61.276, storage vessels with a design storage capacity less than 38 cubic meters (10,000 gallons) are exempt from the provisions of this subpart. 


(c) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels used for storing benzene at coke by-product facilities. 


(d) This subpart does not apply to vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, rail cars, barges, or ships. 


(e) This subpart does not apply to pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa (29.72 psia) and without emissions to the atmosphere.


(f) A designated source subject to the provisions of this subpart that is also subject to applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 60 subparts K, Ka, and Kb shall be required to comply only with the subpart that contains the most stringent requirements for that source. 


(g) *Alternative means of compliance*—(1) *Option to comply with part 65.* Owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 61.271 through 61.277, except for §§ 61.271(d)(2) and 61.274(a) for storage vessels that are subject to this subpart. Other provisions applying to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1. 


(2) *Part 61, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must also comply with §§ 61.01, 61.02, 61.05 through 61.08, 61.10(b) through (d), 61.11, and 61.15 for those storage vessels. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (g)(2) do not apply for storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.



---

[N] [54 FR 38077, Sept. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 62159, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78283, Dec. 14, 2000]




