# § 1010.660   Special measures against Bank of Dandong.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Bank of Dandong* means all subsidiaries, branches, and offices of Bank of Dandong Co., Ltd. operating in any jurisdiction.


(2) *Correspondent account* has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(c)(1)(ii).


(3) *Covered financial institution* has the same meaning as provided in § 1010.605(e)(1).


(4) *Foreign banking institution* means a bank organized under foreign law, or an agency, branch, or office located outside the United States of a bank. The term does not include an agent, agency, branch, or office within the United States of a bank organized under foreign law.


(5) *Subsidiary* means a company of which more than 50 percent of the voting stock or analogous equity interest is owned by another company.


(b) *Prohibition on accounts and due diligence requirements for covered financial institutions*—(1) *Opening or maintaining correspondent accounts for Bank of Dandong.* A covered financial institution shall not open or maintain in the United States a correspondent account for, or on behalf of, Bank of Dandong.


(2) *Prohibition on use of correspondent accounts involving Bank of Dandong.* A covered financial institution shall take reasonable steps not to process a transaction for the correspondent account of a foreign banking institution in the United States if such a transaction involves Bank of Dandong.


(3) *Special due diligence of correspondent accounts to prohibit use.* (i) A covered financial institution shall apply special due diligence to its foreign correspondent accounts that is reasonably designed to guard against their use to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong. At a minimum, that special due diligence must include:


(A) Notifying those foreign correspondent account holders that the covered financial institution knows or has reason to believe provide services to Bank of Dandong that such correspondents may not provide Bank of Dandong with access to the correspondent account maintained at the covered financial institution; and


(B) Taking reasonable steps to identify any use of its foreign correspondent accounts by Bank of Dandong, to the extent that such use can be determined from transactional records maintained in the covered financial institution's normal course of business.


(ii) A covered financial institution shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, other due diligence measures it reasonably must adopt to guard against the use of its foreign correspondent accounts to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong.


(iii) A covered financial institution that knows or has reason to believe that a foreign bank's correspondent account has been or is being used to process transactions involving Bank of Dandong shall take all appropriate steps to further investigate and prevent such access, including the notification of its correspondent account holder under paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section and, where necessary, termination of the correspondent account.


(4) *Recordkeeping and reporting.* (i) A covered financial institution is required to document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.


(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b) shall require a covered financial institution to report any information not otherwise required to be reported by law or regulation.



---

[N] [82 FR 51765, Nov. 8, 2017]




