# ยง 407.71   Specialized definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart:


(a) Except as provided below, the general definitions, abbreviations and methods of analysis set forth in 40 CFR part 401 shall apply to this subpart.


(b) The term *beets* shall include the processing of beets into the following product styles: Canned and peeled, whole, sliced, diced, French style, sections, irregular, and other cuts but not dehydrated beets.


(c) The term *broccoli* shall include the processing of broccoli into the following product styles: Frozen, chopped, spears, and miscellaneous cuts.


(d) The term *carrots* shall include the processing of carrots into the following product styles: Canned and frozen, peeled, whole, sliced, diced, nuggets, crinkle cut, julienne, shoestrings, chunks, chips and other irregular cuts, and juices but not dehydrated carrots.


(e) The term *corn, canned* shall mean the processing of corn into the following product styles: Canned, yellow and white, whole kernel, cream style, and on-the-cob.


(f) The term *corn, frozen* shall mean the processing of corn into the following product styles: Frozen, yellow and white, whole kernel and whole cob.


(g) The term *dehydrated onions and garlic* shall mean the processing of dehydrated onions and garlic into the following product styles: Air, vacuum, and freeze dried, all varieties, diced, strips, and other piece sizes ranging from large sliced to powder but not including green onions, chives, or leeks.


(h) The term *dehydrated vegetables* shall mean the processing of dehydrated vegetables in the following product styles: Air, vacuum and freeze dried, blanched and unblanched, peeled and unpeeled, beets, bell peppers, cabbage, carrots, celery, chili pepper, horseradish, turnips, parsnips, parsley, asparagus, tomatoes, green beans, corn, spinach, green onion tops, chives, leeks, whole, diced, and any other piece size ranging from sliced to powder.


(i) The term *dry beans* shall mean the production of canned pinto, kidney, navy, great northern, red, pink or related type, with and without formulated sauces, meats and gravies.


(j) The term *lima beans* shall mean the processing of lima beans into the following product styles: Canned and frozen, green and white, all varieties and sizes.


(k) The term *mushrooms* shall mean the processing of mushrooms into the following product styles: Canned, frozen, dehydrated, all varieties, shapes and sizes.


(l) The term *canned onions* shall mean the processing of onions into the following product styles: Canned, frozen, and fried (canned), peeled, whole, sliced, and any other piece size but not including frozen, battered onion rings or dehydrated onions.


(m) The term *peas* shall mean the processing of peas into the following product styles: Canned and frozen, all varieties and sizes, whole.


(n) The term *squash* shall include the processing of pumpkin and squash into canned and frozen styles.


(o) The term *sauerkraut cutting* shall mean the trimming, cutting, and subsequent preparatory handling of cabbage necessary for and including brining and fermentation, and subsequent tank soaking.


(p) The term *sauerkraut canning* shall mean the draining and subsequent filling and canning of fermented cabbage and juice.


(q) The term *snap beans* shall mean the processing of snap beans into the following product styles: Canned and frozen green, Italian, wax, string, bush, and other related varieties, whole, French, fancy, Extra Standard, Standard, and other cuts.


(r) The term *spinach* shall mean the processing of spinach and leafy greens into the following product styles: Canned or frozen, whole leaf, chopped, and other related cuts.


(s) The term *potatoes* shall mean the processing of sweet potatoes into the following product styles: Canned, peeled, solid, syrup, and vacuum packed. The following white potato product styles are also included: Canned, peeled, white, all varieties, whole and sliced.


(t) The term *medium* shall mean a point source that processes a total annual raw material production of fruits, vegetables, specialties and other products that is between 1,816 kkg (2,000 tons) per year and 9,080 kkg (10,000 tons) per year.


(u) The term *large* shall mean a point source that processes a total annual raw material production of fruits, vegetables, specialties and other products that exceeds 9,080 kkg (10,000 tons) per year.


(v) The term *annual average* shall mean the maximum allowable discharge of BOD*5* or TSS as calculated by multiplying the total mass (kkg or 1000 lb) of each raw commodity processed for the entire processing season or calendar year by the applicable annual average limitation.


(w) The terms *maximum for any one day* and *average of daily values for thirty consecutive days* shall be based on the daily average mass of raw material processed during the peak thirty consecutive day production period.




