# ยง 3011.401   Materials for which non-public treatment has expired.

(a) *Expiration of non-public treatment.* Ten years after the date of submission to the Commission, non-public materials shall lose non-public status unless otherwise provided by the Commission.


(b) *Request for Disclosure of Materials for Which Non-Public Treatment has Expired.* Any person may request that materials for which non-public treatment has expired under paragraph (a) of this section be publicly disclosed. Any part of the request revealing non-public information shall be filed in accordance with subpart B of this part. The request shall identify the materials requested and date(s) that materials were originally submitted under seal. The template Request for Materials for Which Non-public Treatment Has Expired in appendix A to this subpart may be used and modified to comply with this requirement. The request shall be filed in the docket in which the materials were filed or in the docket in which the materials will be used; in all other circumstances, the request shall be filed in the G docket for the applicable fiscal year. All documents are treated in accordance with the Commission's record retention schedule, which may reduce the availability of some non-public information.




(c) *Response.* A response to the request is due within seven calendar days of the filing of the request, unless the Commission otherwise provides. Any response opposing the request shall seek an extension of non-public status by including an application for non-public treatment compliant with ยง 3011.201. This extension application shall also include specific facts in support of any assertion that commercial injury is likely to occur if the information contained in the materials is publicly disclosed despite the passage of ten years or the timeframe established by Commission order.


(d) *Reply.* Within 7 calendar days of the filing of a response, any person (including the requestor) may file a reply, unless the Commission otherwise provides.


(e) *Non-public treatment pending resolution.* Pending the resolution of the request by the Commission, information designated as non-public will be accorded non-public treatment.


(f) *Ruling.* The Commission may grant the request at any time after the response period described in paragraph (c) of this section has expired. The Commission may deny the request and enter an order extending the duration of non-public status at any time after the reply period described in paragraph (d) of this section has expired. The determination of the Commission shall follow the applicable standard described in ยง 3011.104.



---

[N] [83 FR 31281, July 3, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 9644, Feb. 19, 2020; 88 FR 37474, June 8, 2023]




