# § 1.892-3T   Income of foreign governments (temporary regulations).

(a) *Types of income exempt*—(1) *In general.* Subject to the exceptions contained in §§ 1.892-4T and 1.892-5T for income derived from the conduct of a commercial activity or received from or by a controlled commercial entity, the following types of income derived by a foreign government (as defined in § 1.892-2T) are not included in gross income and are exempt:


(i) Income from investments in the United States in stocks, bonds, or other securities;


(ii) Income from investments in the United States in financial instruments held in the execution of governmental financial or monetary policy; and


(iii) Interest on deposits in banks in the United States of moneys belonging to such foreign government.


(2) *Income from investments.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, income from investments in stocks, bonds or other securities includes gain from their disposition and income earned from engaging in section 1058 securities lending transactions. Gain on the disposition of an interest in a partnership or a trust is not exempt from taxation under section 892.


(3) *Securities.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “other securities” includes any note or other evidence of indebtedness. Thus, an annuity contract, a mortgage, a banker's acceptance or a loan are securities for purposes of this section.


However, the term “other securities” does not include partnership interests (with the exception of publicly traded partnerships within the meaning of section 7704) or trust interests. The term also does not include commodity forward or futures contracts and commodity options unless they constitute securities for purposes of section 864(b)(2)(A).


(4) *Financial instrument.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “financial instrument” includes any forward, futures, options contract, swap agreement or similar instrument in a functional or nonfunctional currency (see section 985(b) for the definition of functional currency) or in precious metals when held by a foreign government or central bank of issue (as defined in § 1.895-1(b)). Nonfunctional currency or gold shall be considered a “financial instrument” also when physically held by a central bank of issue.


(5) *Execution of financial or monetary policy*—(i) *Rule.* A financial instrument shall be deemed held in the execution of governmental financial or monetary policy if the primary purpose for holding the instrument is to implement or effectuate such policy.


(ii) *Illustration.* The following example illustrates the application of this paragraph (a)(5).


(b) *Illustrations.* The principles of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.



---

[N] [T.D. 8211, 53 FR 24062, June 27, 1988]




