# ยง 511.23   Motions.

(a) *Presentations and dispositions.* During the time a proceeding is before a Presiding Officer, all motions, whether oral or written, except those filed under ยง 511.42(e), shall be addressed to the Presiding Officer, who shall rule upon them promptly after affording an opportunity for response.


(b) *Written motions.* All written motions shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds therefor. If a motion is supported by memoranda, affidavits or other documents, they shall be served and filed with the motion. All motions shall contain a proposed order setting forth the relief sought. All written motions shall be filed with the Executive Secretary and served on all parties, and all motions addressed to the Administrator shall be in writing.


(c) *Responses.* Within ten (10) days after service of any written motion or petition or within such longer or shorter time as may be designated by these Rules or by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, the opposing party or parties shall file a written response to such motion. Where a motion would affect only a single party, or an identifiable group of parties, the Presiding Officer or Administrator may limit the response to the motion to the affected party or parties. Failure to respond to a written motion may, in the discretion of the Presiding Officer be deemed as consent to the granting of the relief sought in the motion. The moving party shall have no right to reply, except as permitted by the Presiding Officer or the Administrator.


(d) *Rulings on motions for dismissal.* When a motion to dismiss a complaint or motion for other relief is granted with the result that the proceeding before the Presiding Officer is terminated, the Presiding Officer shall issue an Initial Decision and Order thereon in accordance with the provisions of ยง 511.51. If such a motion is granted as to all issues alleged in the complaint in regard to some, but not all, of the respondents, or is granted as to any part of the allegations in regard to any or all of the respondents, the Presiding Officer shall enter an order on the record and consider the remaining issues in the Initial Decision. The Presiding Officer may elect to defer ruling on a motion to dismiss until the close of the case.




