# § 738.3   Commerce Country Chart structure.

(a) *Scope.* The Commerce Country Chart allows you to determine the Commerce Control List (CCL) export and reexport license requirements for most items listed on the CCL. Such license requirements are based on the Reasons for Control listed in the Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) that applies to the item. Some ECCNs, however, impose license requirements either without reference to a reason for control code that is listed on the Commerce Country Chart, or in addition to such a reference. Those ECCNs may state their license requirements in full in their “Reasons for Control” sections or they may refer the reader to another provision of the EAR for license requirement information. In addition, some ECCNs do not impose license requirements, but refer the reader to the regulations of another government agency that may impose license requirements on the items described in that ECCN.


(1) ECCNs 0A983, 5A001.f.1, 5A980, 5D001 (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1 or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1))), 5D980, 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1)) and 5E980. A license is required for all destinations for items controlled under these entries. For items controlled by 0A983, 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1)) and 5E980, no license exceptions apply. For items controlled by 5A001.f.1, 5A980, 5D001 (for 5A001.f.1 or for 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1))) and 5D980, License Exception GOV may apply if your item is consigned to and for the official use of an agency of the U.S. Government (see § 740.2(a)(3)). If your item is controlled by 0A983, 5A001.f.1, 5A980, 5D001 (for 5A001.f.1 or for 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1))), 5D980, 5E001.a (for 5A001.f.1, or for 5D001.a (for 5A001.f.1)) or 5E980 you should proceed directly to part 748 of the EAR for license application instructions and § 742.11 or § 742.13 of the EAR for information on the licensing policy relevant to these types of applications.


(2) [Reserved] 


(b) *Countries.* The first column of the Country Chart lists countries in alphabetical order. There are a number of destinations that are not listed in the Country Chart contained in supplement no. 1 to part 738. If your destination is not listed on the Country Chart and such destination is a territory, possession, dependency or department of a country included on the Country Chart, the EAR accords your destination the same licensing treatment as the country of which it is a territory, possession, dependency or department. For example, if your destination is the Cayman Islands, a dependent territory of the United Kingdom, refer to the United Kingdom on the Country Chart for licensing requirements. In addition, if your destination is Liechtenstein, which serves as one territory with Switzerland for purposes of the EAR, refer to Switzerland on the Country Chart for licensing requirements.


(c) *Columns.* Stretching out to the right are horizontal headers identifying the various Reasons for Control. Under each Reason for Control header are diagonal column identifiers capping individual columns. Each column identifier consists of the two letter Reason for Control and a column number. (e.g., CB Column 1). The column identifiers correspond to those listed in the “Country Chart” header within the “License Requirements” section of each ECCN.


(d) *Cells.* The symbol “X” is used to denote licensing requirements on the Country Chart. If an “X” appears in a particular cell, transactions subject to that particular Reason for Control/Destination combination require a license. There is a direct correlation between the number of “X”s applicable to your transaction and the number of licensing reviews your application will undergo.



---

[N] [61 FR 12756, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 42228, Aug. 7, 1998; 65 FR 55178, Sept. 13, 2000; 70 FR 8249, Feb. 18, 2005; 71 FR 67035, Nov. 20, 2006; 76 FR 54930, Sept. 6, 2011; 76 FR 70339, Nov. 14, 2011; 77 FR 39367, July 2, 2012; 78 FR 37382, June 20, 2013]




