# ยง 73.73   Requirement for advance notice and protection of export shipments of special nuclear material of low strategic significance.

(a) A licensee authorized to export special nuclear material of low strategic significance shall: 




(1) Notify in writing the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response, by email (preferred method) to *AdvanceNotifications.Resource@nrc.gov* or by using any appropriate method listed in ยง 73.4;




(2) Assure that the notification will be received at least 10 days before transport of the shipment commences at the shipper's facility; 


(3) Include the following information in the notification: 


(i) The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the shipper, receiver, and carrier(s); 


(ii) A physical description of the shipment (the elements, isotopes, form, etc.); 


(iii) A listing of the mode(s) of shipment, transfer points, and routes to be used; 


(iv) The estimated time and date that shipment will commence and that each country along the route is scheduled to be entered; and 


(v) The estimated time and date of arrival of the shipment at the destination; 


(4) Assure that during transport outside the United States, the shipment will be protected in accordance with Annex I to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material (see appendix E of this part). 


(b) A licensee who needs to amend a written advance notification required by paragraph (a) of this section may notify the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers listed in appendix A to this part.



---

[N] [52 FR 9653, Mar. 26, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 4112, Feb. 12, 1988; 60 FR 24553, May 9, 1995; 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 58820, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62684, Dec. 1, 2009; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 86 FR 67843, Nov. 30, 2021]




