# § 310.55   Scholastic requirements.

(a) *Academic requirements*—(1) *Credits.* Applicants shall have satisfactorily completed their high school education at an accredited secondary school, or equivalent, and shall present at least 15 units of credit for subjects acceptable to the Academy, comprised of:


(i) 7 required units, as follows:


(A) 3 units of Mathematics (from algebra, geometry and trigonometry);


(B) 3 units of English; and


(C) 1 unit of Physics or Chemistry.


(ii) 8 other units, preferably chosen from the following fields:


(A) Additional mathematics and science;


(B) Foreign language;


(C) Economics; and,


(D) Social science.


(2) *Evidence of academic work.* Before approval of an application, each applicant shall submit evidence showing completion of high school education, or showing that such education will be completed no later than June 30 of the year in which admission is sought.


(b) *Scholastic examinations*—(1) *Required entrance examinations.* Applicants shall qualify in either the College Board's Scholastic Aptitude Tests (SAT) or the American College Testing Program (ACT) examinations, administered nationally on scheduled dates at convenient testing centers. A candidate electing to use the College Board shall take both the mathematics and the verbal section of the SAT. A candidate electing to use the ACT, shall take all the tests, namely, English, Mathematics, Social Sciences and Natural Sciences. Minimum qualifying scores on the entrance examinations will be determined by the Superintendent of the Academy for each entering class prior to any offers of appointment for the particular class. Any score below the minimum on any one section of an examination shall make the nominee ineligible for admission. All examination costs shall be borne by the applicant. Nominees shall take all the required examinations by the February testing date in the year for which they seek appointment, unless the Academy's Admissions Office grants special authorization to take later examinations.


(2) *Forwarding test results.* Candidates shall be responsible for requesting the testing services to submit their scores directly to the Academy.


(3) *Test information.* Information on the entrance examinations may be obtained from—


(c) *Prior Scholastic Record.* Applicants shall demonstrate scholastic achievement by having attained a relatively high standing in relation to their fellow students and by having shown proficiency in mathematics and science courses. With respect to applicants who completed high school at least one year before applying for admission to the Academy, consideration will be given to satisfactory college level study or any special study undertaken to strengthen their academic backgrounds, particularly in respect to determining whether such supplementary academic activity offsets any deficiency in high school scholastic records.




(d) *Waivers.* No waivers of scholastic requirements will be granted, except in the event of a State or national emergency that significantly limits the ability of applicants to take either the SAT or ACT, as determined by the Maritime Administrator.









---

[N] [47 FR 21812, May 20, 1982, as amended at 85 FR 67302, Oct. 22, 2020]






