# § 244.9   Definitions.

As used in this part— 


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration or the Administrator's delegate. 


*Amalgamation of operations* means the migration, combination, or unification of one set of railroad operations with another set of railroad operations, including, but not limited to, the allocation of resources affecting railroad operations (*e.g.,* changes in personnel, track, bridges, or communication or signal systems; or use or deployment of maintenance-of-way equipment, locomotives, or freight or passenger cars). 


*Applicant* means a Class I railroad or a Class II railroad engaging in a transaction subject to this part. 


*Best practices* means measures that are tried, tested, and proven to be the safest and most efficient rules or instructions governing railroad operations. 


*Class I or Class II railroad* has the meaning assigned by regulations of the Surface Transportation Board (49 CFR part 1201; General Instructions 1-1), as those regulations may be revised by the Board (including modifications in class thresholds based on the revenue deflator formula) from time to time. 


*Corporate culture* means the totality of the commitments, written and oral directives, and practices that make up the way a railroad's management and its employees operate their railroad. 


*Control means* actual control, legal control, or the power to exercise control through: 


(1) Common directors, officers, stockholders, a voting trust, or a holding or investment company, or 


(2) Any other means. *See* 49 U.S.C. 10102. 


*Consolidation* means the creation of a new Class I railroad by combining existing Class I railroads or a Class I railroad and a Class II railroad where there is an amalgamation of operations, or by a railroad or a corporate parent of a Class I railroad taking over the assets or assuming the liabilities, or both, of another Class I railroad such that the resulting unified entity has the combined capital, powers, and subsidiaries and affiliates, if applicable, of all of its constituents. 


*Environmental documentation* means either an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement prepared in accordance with the Surface Transportation Board's environmental rules at 49 CFR part 1105. 


*Merger* means the acquisition of one Class I railroad or Class II railroad where there is amalgamation of operations by a Class I railroad such that the acquiring railroad or a corporate parent of that railroad acquires the stock, assets, liabilities, powers, subsidiaries and affiliates of the railroad acquired. 


*Person* means an entity of any type covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including the following: A railroad; a manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor. 


*Railroad* means any form of non-highway ground transportation that runs on rails or electromagnetic guideways, including: 


(1) Commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area; and 


(2) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether those systems use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads. The term does not include rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation. 


*Safety Integration Plan* means a comprehensive written plan submitted to and approved by FRA in compliance with this part that demonstrates in required detail how an applicant will provide for safe railroad operations during and after any transaction covered by this part, and otherwise assure compliance with the Federal railroad safety laws. 


*Section of Environmental Analysis* or “SEA” means the Section of the Surface Transportation Board that prepares its environmental documentation and analyses. 


*Transaction* means a consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control subject to the requirements of this part. 




