# § 611.1250   Preliminary exit fee estimate.

(a) *Preliminary exit fee estimate—terminating association.* You must provide a preliminary exit fee estimate to us when you submit the plan of termination under § 611.1221. Calculate the preliminary exit fee estimate in the following order:


(1) Base your exit fee calculation on the average daily balances of assets and liabilities for the 12-month period as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination.


(2) Any amounts we refer to in this section are average daily balances unless we specify that they are not. Amounts that are not average daily balances will be referred to as “dollar amount.”


(3) Compute the average daily balances based on financial statements that comply with GAAP. The financial statements, as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination, must be independently audited by a qualified public accountant. We may, in our discretion, waive the audit requirement if an independent audit was performed as of a date less than 6 months before you submit the plan of termination.


(4) Make adjustments to assets as follows:


(i) Add back expenses you have incurred related to termination. Related expenses include, but are not limited to, legal services, accounting services, tax services, studies, auditing, business planning, equity holder meetings, and application fees for the termination and reorganization. Do not add back to assets expenses related to a requirement by the FCA to engage independent experts to conduct assessments, analyses, or studies, or to request rulings that solely address the impact of the termination on the System or parties other than the terminating institution and its stockholders.


(ii) Subtract the dollar amount of estimated current and deferred tax expenses, if any, due to the termination.


(iii) Add the dollar amount of estimated current and deferred tax benefits, if any, due to the termination.


(iv) Adjust for the dollar amount of significant transactions you reasonably expect to occur between the quarter end before you file your plan of termination and date of termination. Examples of these transactions include, but are not limited to, gains or losses on the sale of assets, retirements of equity, loan repayments, and patronage distributions. Do not make adjustments for future expenses related to termination, such as severance or special retirement payments, or stock retirements to dissenting stockholders and Farm Credit institutions.


(5) Subtract from liabilities any liability that we treat as regulatory capital under the capital or collateral requirements in subparts H and K of part 615 of this chapter.


(6) Make any adjustments we require under paragraph (c) of this section.


(7) After making these adjustments to assets and liabilities, subtract liabilities from assets. This is your preliminary total capital for purposes of termination.


(8) Multiply assets as adjusted above by 6 percent, and subtract this amount from preliminary total capital. This is your preliminary exit fee estimate.


(b) *Preliminary exit fee estimate—terminating bank.* (1) Affiliated associations that are terminating with you must calculate their individual preliminary exit fee estimates as described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Base your exit fee calculation on the average daily balances of assets and liabilities for the 12-month period as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination.


(3) Any amounts we refer to in this section are average daily balances unless we specify that they are not. Amounts that are not average daily balances will be referred to as “dollar amount.”


(4) Compute the average daily balances based on bank-only financial statements that comply with GAAP. The financial statements, as of the quarter end immediately before the date you send us your plan of termination, must be independently audited by a qualified public accountant. We may, in our discretion, waive this requirement if an independent audit was performed as of a date less than 6 months before you submit the plan of termination.


(5) Make adjustments to assets and liabilities as follows:


(i) Add back to assets the following:


(A) Expenses you have incurred related to termination. Related expenses include, but are not limited to, legal services, accounting services, tax services, studies, auditing, business planning, equity holder meetings, and application fees for the termination and reorganization. Do not add back to assets expenses related to a requirement by the FCA to engage independent experts to conduct assessments, analyses, or studies, or to request rulings that solely address the impact of the termination on the System or parties other than the terminating institution and its stockholders.


(B) Any specific allowance for losses, and a pro rata portion of any general allowance for credit losses, on direct loans to associations that you do not expect to incur before or at termination.


(ii) Subtract from your assets and liabilities an amount equal to your direct loans to your affiliated associations that are not terminating.


(iii) Subtract the following from assets:


(A) Equity investments in your institution that are held by nonterminating associations and that you expect to transfer to another System bank before or at termination. A nonterminating association's investment consists of purchased equities, allocated equities, and a share of the bank's unallocated surplus calculated in accordance with the bank's bylaw provisions on liquidation. We may require a different calculation method for the unallocated surplus if we determine that using the liquidation provision would be inequitable to stockholders; and


(B) The dollar amount of estimated current and deferred tax expenses, if any, due to the termination.


(iv) Add the dollar amount of current and deferred estimated tax benefits, if any, due to the termination.


(v) Subtract from liabilities any liability that we treat as regulatory capital under the capital or collateral requirements in subparts H and K of part 615 of this chapter.


(vi) Adjust for the dollar amount of significant transactions you reasonably expect to occur between the quarter end before you file your plan of termination and date of termination. Examples of these transactions include, but are not limited to, retirements of equity, loan repayments, and patronage distributions. Do not make adjustments for future expenses related to termination, such as severance or special retirement payments, or stock retirements to dissenting stockholders and Farm Credit institutions.


(6) Make any adjustments we require under paragraph (c) of this section.


(7) After the above adjustments, combine your balance sheet with the balance sheets of your terminating associations after they have made the adjustments required in paragraph (a) of this section. Subtract liabilities from assets. This is your preliminary total capital estimate for purposes of termination.


(8) Multiply the assets of the combined balance sheet after the above adjustments by 6 percent. Subtract this amount from the preliminary total capital estimate of the combined balance sheet. The remainder is the preliminary exit fee estimate of the bank and terminating affiliated associations.


(9) Your preliminary exit fee estimate is the amount by which the preliminary exit fee estimate for the combined entity exceeds the total of the individual preliminary exit fee estimates of your affiliated terminating associations.


(c) *Adjustments.* (1) We will review your account balances, transactions over the 3 years before the date of the termination resolution under § 611.1220, and any subsequent transactions. Our review will include, but not be limited to, the following:


(i) Additions to or subtractions from any allowance for losses;


(ii) Additions to assets or liabilities, or subtractions from assets or liabilities, due to transactions that are outside your ordinary course of business;


(iii) Dividends or patronage refunds exceeding your usual practices;


(iv) Changes in the institution's capital plan, or in implementing the plan, that increased or decreased the level of borrower investment;


(v) Contingent liabilities, such as loss-sharing obligations, that can be reasonably quantified; and


(vi) Assets, including real property and servicing rights, that may be overvalued, undervalued, or not recorded on your books.


(2) If we determine the account balances do not accurately show the value of your assets and liabilities (whether the assets and liabilities were booked before or during the 3-year look-back adjustment period), we will make any adjustments we deem necessary.


(3) We may require you to reverse the effect of a transaction if we determine that:


(i) You have retired capital outside the ordinary course of business;


(ii) You have taken any other actions unrelated to your core business that have the effect of changing the exit fee; or


(iii) You incurred expenses related to termination prior to the 12-month average daily balance period on which the exit fee calculation is based.


(4) We may require you to make these adjustments to the preliminary exit fee estimate that is disclosed in the information statement, the final exit fee calculation, and the calculations of the value of equities held by dissenting stockholders, Farm Credit institutions that choose to have their equities retired at termination, and reaffiliating associations. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17909, Apr. 12, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 76118, Dec. 20, 2006; 87 FR 27492, May 9, 2022]




