# § 60.5430   What definitions apply to this subpart?

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act, in subpart A or subpart VVa of part 60; and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them.


*Acid gas* means a gas stream of hydrogen sulfide (H_2_S) and carbon dioxide (CO_2_) that has been separated from sour natural gas by a sweetening unit.


*Alaskan North Slope* means the approximately 69,000 square-mile area extending from the Brooks Range to the Arctic Ocean.


*API Gravity* means the weight per unit volume of hydrocarbon liquids as measured by a system recommended by the American Petroleum Institute (API) and is expressed in degrees.


*Bleed rate* means the rate in standard cubic feet per hour at which natural gas is continuously vented (bleeds) from a pneumatic controller.


*Capital expenditure* means, in addition to the definition in 40 CFR 60.2, an expenditure for a physical or operational change to an existing facility that:


(1) Exceeds P, the product of the facility's replacement cost, R, and an adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, as reflected by the following equation: P = R × A, where


(i) The adjusted annual asset guideline repair allowance, A, is the product of the percent of the replacement cost, Y, and the applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, divided by 100 as reflected by the following equation:


(ii) The percent Y is determined from the following equation: Y = 1.0 − 0.575 log X, where X is 2011 minus the year of construction; and


(iii) The applicable basic annual asset guideline repair allowance, B, is 4.5.


(2) [Reserved]


*Centrifugal compressor* means any machine for raising the pressure of a natural gas by drawing in low pressure natural gas and discharging significantly higher pressure natural gas by means of mechanical rotating vanes or impellers. Screw, sliding vane, and liquid ring compressors are not centrifugal compressors for the purposes of this subpart.


*Certifying official* means one of the following:


(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities applying for or subject to a permit and either:


(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or


(ii) The Administrator is notified of such delegation of authority prior to the exercise of that authority. The Administrator reserves the right to evaluate such delegation;


(2) For a partnership (including but not limited to general partnerships, limited partnerships, and limited liability partnerships) or sole proprietorship: A general partner or the proprietor, respectively. If a general partner is a corporation, the provisions of paragraph (1) of this definition apply;


(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (*e.g.,* a Regional Administrator of EPA); or


(4) For affected facilities:


(i) The designated representative in so far as actions, standards, requirements, or prohibitions under title IV of the Clean Air Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder are concerned; or


(ii) The designated representative for any other purposes under part 60.


*City gate* means the delivery point at which natural gas is transferred from a transmission pipeline to the local gas utility.


*Collection system* means any infrastructure that conveys gas or liquids from the well site to another location for treatment, storage, processing, recycling, disposal or other handling.


*Completion combustion device* means any ignition device, installed horizontally or vertically, used in exploration and production operations to combust otherwise vented emissions from completions.


*Compressor station* means any permanent combination of one or more compressors that move natural gas at increased pressure from fields, in transmission pipelines, or into storage.


*Condensate* means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas that condenses due to changes in the temperature, pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.


*Continuous bleed* means a continuous flow of pneumatic supply natural gas to the process control device (e.g., level control, temperature control, pressure control) where the supply gas pressure is modulated by the process condition, and then flows to the valve controller where the signal is compared with the process set-point to adjust gas pressure in the valve actuator.




*Custody transfer* means the transfer of natural gas after processing and/or treatment in the producing operations, or from storage vessels or automatic transfer facilities or other such equipment, including product loading racks, to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.


*Dehydrator* means a device in which an absorbent directly contacts a natural gas stream and absorbs water in a contact tower or absorption column (absorber).


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart.


*Delineation well* means a well drilled in order to determine the boundary of a field or producing reservoir.


*Equipment,* as used in the standards and requirements in this subpart relative to the equipment leaks of VOC from onshore natural gas processing plants, means each pump, pressure relief device, open-ended valve or line, valve, and flange or other connector that is in VOC service or in wet gas service, and any device or system required by those same standards and requirements in this subpart.


*Field gas* means feedstock gas entering the natural gas processing plant.


*Field gas gathering* means the system used transport field gas from a field to the main pipeline in the area.


*Flare* means a thermal oxidation system using an open (without enclosure) flame. Completion combustion devices as defined in this section are not considered flares.


*Flow line* means a pipeline used to transport oil and/or gas to a processing facility, a mainline pipeline, re-injection, or routed to a process or other useful purpose.


*Flowback* means the process of allowing fluids and entrained solids to flow from a natural gas well following a treatment, either in preparation for a subsequent phase of treatment or in preparation for cleanup and returning the well to production. The term *flowback* also means the fluids and entrained solids that emerge from a natural gas well during the flowback process. The *flowback period* begins when material introduced into the well during the treatment returns to the surface following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. The *flowback period* ends when either the well is shut in and permanently disconnected from the flowback equipment or at the startup of production. The flowback period includes the initial flowback stage and the separation flowback stage.


*Gas processing plant process* unit means equipment assembled for the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, the fractionation of the liquids into natural gas products, or other operations associated with the processing of natural gas products. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the products.


*Gas well or natural gas well* means an onshore well drilled principally for production of natural gas.


*Group 1 storage vessel* means a storage vessel, as defined in this section, for which construction, modification or reconstruction has commenced after August 23, 2011, and on or before April 12, 2013.


*Group 2 storage vessel* means a storage vessel, as defined in this section, for which construction, modification or reconstruction has commenced after April 12, 2013, and on or before September 18, 2015.


*Hydraulic fracturing* or refracturing means the process of directing pressurized fluids containing any combination of water, proppant, and any added chemicals to penetrate tight formations, such as shale or coal formations, that subsequently require high rate, extended flowback to expel fracture fluids and solids during completions.


*Hydraulic refracturing* means conducting a subsequent hydraulic fracturing operation at a well that has previously undergone a hydraulic fracturing operation.


*In light liquid service* means that the piece of equipment contains a liquid that meets the conditions specified in § 60.485a(e) or § 60.5401(g)(2) of this part.


*In wet gas service* means that a compressor or piece of equipment contains or contacts the field gas before the extraction step at a gas processing plant process unit.


*Initial flowback stage* means the period during a well completion operation which begins at the onset of flowback and ends at the separation flowback stage.


*Intermediate hydrocarbon liquid* means any naturally occurring, unrefined petroleum liquid.


*Intermittent/snap-action pneumatic controller* means a pneumatic controller that vents non-continuously.


*Liquefied natural gas unit* means a unit used to cool natural gas to the point at which it is condensed into a liquid which is colorless, odorless, non-corrosive and non-toxic.


*Low pressure gas well* means a well with reservoir pressure and vertical well depth such that 0.445 times the reservoir pressure (in psia) minus 0.038 times the true vertical well depth (in feet) minus 67.578 psia is less than the flow line pressure at the sales meter.


*Maximum average daily throughput* means the earliest calculation of daily average throughput during the 30-day PTE evaluation period employing generally accepted methods.


*Natural gas-driven pneumatic controller* means a pneumatic controller powered by pressurized natural gas.


*Natural gas liquids* means the hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane, butane, and pentane that are extracted from field gas.


*Natural gas processing plant* (gas plant) means any processing site engaged in the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, fractionation of mixed natural gas liquids to natural gas products, or both. A Joule-Thompson valve, a dew point depression valve, or an isolated or standalone Joule-Thompson skid is not a natural gas processing plant.


*Natural gas transmission* means the pipelines used for the long distance transport of natural gas (excluding processing). Specific equipment used in natural gas transmission includes the land, mains, valves, meters, boosters, regulators, storage vessels, dehydrators, compressors, and their driving units and appurtenances, and equipment used for transporting gas from a production plant, delivery point of purchased gas, gathering system, storage area, or other wholesale source of gas to one or more distribution area(s).


*Nonfractionating plant* means any gas plant that does not fractionate mixed natural gas liquids into natural gas products.


*Non-natural gas-driven pneumatic controller* means an instrument that is actuated using other sources of power than pressurized natural gas; examples include solar, electric, and instrument air.


*Onshore* means all facilities except those that are located in the territorial seas or on the outer continental shelf.


*Pneumatic controller* means an automated instrument used for maintaining a process condition such as liquid level, pressure, delta-pressure and temperature.


*Pressure vessel* means a storage vessel that is used to store liquids or gases and is designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the pressure vessel during filling of the pressure vessel to its design capacity.


*Process unit* means components assembled for the extraction of natural gas liquids from field gas, the fractionation of the liquids into natural gas products, or other operations associated with the processing of natural gas products. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient storage facilities for the products.


*Produced water* means water that is extracted from the earth from an oil or natural gas production well, or that is separated from crude oil, condensate, or natural gas after extraction.


*Reciprocating compressor* means a piece of equipment that increases the pressure of a process gas by positive displacement, employing linear movement of the driveshaft.


*Reciprocating compressor rod packing* means a series of flexible rings in machined metal cups that fit around the reciprocating compressor piston rod to create a seal limiting the amount of compressed natural gas that escapes to the atmosphere.


*Recovered gas* means gas recovered through the separation process during flowback.


*Recovered liquids* means any crude oil, condensate or produced water recovered through the separation process during flowback.


*Reduced emissions completion* means a well completion following fracturing or refracturing where gas flowback that is otherwise vented is captured, cleaned, and routed to the flow line or collection system, re-injected into the well or another well, used as an on-site fuel source, or used for other useful purpose that a purchased fuel or raw material would serve, with no direct release to the atmosphere.


*Reduced sulfur compounds* means H_2_S, carbonyl sulfide (COS), and carbon disulfide (CS_2_).


*Removed from service* means that a storage vessel affected facility has been physically isolated and disconnected from the process for a purpose other than maintenance in accordance with § 60.5395(f)(1).


*Responsible official* means one of the following:


(1) For a corporation: A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or a duly authorized representative of such person if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities applying for or subject to a permit and either:


(i) The facilities employ more than 250 persons or have gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars); or


(ii) The delegation of authority to such representatives is approved in advance by the permitting authority;


(2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: A general partner or the proprietor, respectively;


(3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: Either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. For the purposes of this part, a principal executive officer of a Federal agency includes the chief executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., a Regional Administrator of EPA); or


(4) For affected facilities:


(i) The designated representative in so far as actions, standards, requirements, or prohibitions under title IV of the Clean Air Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder are concerned; or


(ii) The designated representative for any other purposes under part 60.


*Returned to service* means that a Group 1 or Group 2 storage vessel affected facility that was removed from service has been:


(1) Reconnected to the original source of liquids or has been used to replace any storage vessel affected facility; or


(2) Installed in any location covered by this subpart and introduced with crude oil, condensate, intermediate hydrocarbon liquids or produced water.


*Routed to a process or route to a process* means the emissions are conveyed via a closed vent system to any enclosed portion of a process where the emissions are predominantly recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in the process and/or transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated materials and/or incorporated into a product; and/or recovered.


*Salable quality gas* means natural gas that meets the flow line or collection system operator specifications, regardless of whether such gas is sold.


*Separation flowback stage* means the period during a well completion operation when it is technically feasible for a separator to function. The *separation flowback stage* ends either at the startup of production, or when the well is shut in and permanently disconnected from the flowback equipment.


*Startup of production* means the beginning of initial flow following the end of flowback when there is continuous recovery of salable quality gas and separation and recovery of any crude oil, condensate or produced water.


*Storage vessel* means a tank or other vessel that contains an accumulation of crude oil, condensate, intermediate hydrocarbon liquids, or produced water, and that is constructed primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel, fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support. A well completion vessel that receives recovered liquids from a well after startup of production following flowback for a period which exceeds 60 days is considered a storage vessel under this subpart. A tank or other vessel shall not be considered a storage vessel if it has been removed from service in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5395(f) until such time as such tank or other vessel has been returned to service. A tank or other vessel shall not be considered a storage vessel if it has been removed from service in accordance with the requirements of § 60.5395(f) until such time as such tank or other vessel has been returned to service. For the purposes of this subpart, the following are not considered storage vessels:


(1) Vessels that are skid-mounted or permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars, barges or ships), and are intended to be located at a site for less than 180 consecutive days. If you do not keep or are not able to produce records, as required by § 60.5420(c)(5)(iv), showing that the vessel has been located at a site for less than 180 consecutive days, the vessel described herein is considered to be a storage vessel from the date the original vessel was first located at the site. This exclusion does not apply to a well completion vessel as described above.


(2) Process vessels such as surge control vessels, bottoms receivers or knockout vessels.


(3) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere.


*Sulfur production rate* means the rate of liquid sulfur accumulation from the sulfur recovery unit.


*Sulfur recovery unit* means a process device that recovers element sulfur from acid gas.


*Surface site* means any combination of one or more graded pad sites, gravel pad sites, foundations, platforms, or the immediate physical location upon which equipment is physically affixed.


*Sweetening unit* means a process device that removes hydrogen sulfide and/or carbon dioxide from the sour natural gas stream.


*Total Reduced Sulfur (TRS)* means the sum of the sulfur compounds hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulfide, and dimethyl disulfide as measured by Method 16 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.


*Total SO**2 equivalents* means the sum of volumetric or mass concentrations of the sulfur compounds obtained by adding the quantity existing as SO_2_ to the quantity of SO_2_ that would be obtained if all reduced sulfur compounds were converted to SO_2_ (ppmv or kg/dscm (lb/dscf)).


*Underground storage vessel* means a storage vessel stored below ground.


*Well* means an oil or gas well, a hole drilled for the purpose of producing oil or gas, or a well into which fluids are injected.


*Well completion* means the process that allows for the flowback of petroleum or natural gas from newly drilled wells to expel drilling and reservoir fluids and tests the reservoir flow characteristics, which may vent produced hydrocarbons to the atmosphere via an open pit or tank.


*Well completion operation* means any well completion with hydraulic fracturing or refracturing occurring at a gas well affected facility.


*Well completion vessel* means a vessel that contains *flowback* during a well completion operation following hydraulic fracturing or refracturing. A well completion vessel may be a lined earthen pit, a tank or other vessel that is skid-mounted or portable. A well completion vessel that receives recovered liquids from a well after startup of production following flowback for a period which exceeds 60 days is considered a storage vessel under this subpart.


*Well site* means one or more areas that are directly disturbed during the drilling and subsequent operation of, or affected by, production facilities directly associated with any oil well, gas well, or injection well and its associated well pad.


*Wellhead* means the piping, casing, tubing and connected valves protruding above the earth's surface for an oil and/or natural gas well. The wellhead ends where the flow line connects to a wellhead valve. The wellhead does not include other equipment at the well site except for any conveyance through which gas is vented to the atmosphere.


*Wildcat well* means a well outside known fields or the first well drilled in an oil or gas field where no other oil and gas production exists.



---

[N] [77 FR 49542, Aug. 16, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 58447, Sept. 23, 2013; 79 FR 79040, Dec. 31, 2014; 80 FR 48268, Aug. 12, 2015; 81 FR 35898, June 3, 2016; 85 FR 57069, Sept. 14, 2020; 89 FR 17036, Mar. 8, 2024]







