# ยง 769.164   Postaward requirements.

(a) *Applicability.* Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loan funds from the HPRP revolving loan fund, the requirement will apply to all loans made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient from the intermediary's HPRP revolving loan fund for as long as any portion of the intermediary's HPRP loan remains unpaid.


(b) *Applicability for HPRP loan funds.* Whenever this subpart imposes a requirement on loans made by intermediaries from HPRP loan funds, without specific reference to the HPRP revolving loan fund, such requirement only applies to loans made by an intermediary using HPRP loan funds, and will not apply to loans made from revolved funds.


(c) *File maintenance.* In addition to information normally maintained by lenders in each loan file associated with a relending loan to an ultimate recipient, the intermediary must include a certification and supporting documentation in its file demonstrating that:


(1) The ultimate recipient is eligible for the loan;


(2) The loan is for eligible purposes; and


(3) The loan complies with all applicable laws, regulations, and the intermediary's HPRP loan agreement.


(d) *Maintenance of HPRP revolving loan fund.* For as long as any part of an HPRP loan remains unpaid, the intermediary must maintain the HPRP revolving loan fund in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section:


(1) All HPRP loan funds received by an intermediary must be deposited into the HPRP revolving loan fund. The intermediary may transfer additional assets into the HPRP revolving loan fund;


(2) All cash of the HPRP revolving loan fund must be deposited in a separate bank account or accounts;


(3) The HPRP revolving loan fund must be segregated from other financial assets of the intermediary, and no other funds of the intermediary will be commingled with the HPRP revolving loan fund;


(4) All moneys deposited in the HPRP revolving loan fund account or accounts will be money from the HPRP revolving loan fund;


(5) Loans to ultimate recipients are advanced from the HPRP revolving loan fund;


(6) The receivables created by making loans to ultimate recipients, the intermediary's security interest in collateral pledged by ultimate recipients, collections on the receivables, interest, fees, and any other income or assets derived from the operation of the HPRP revolving loan fund are a part of the HPRP revolving loan fund;


(7) The portion of the HPRP revolving loan fund consisting of HPRP loan funds may only be used for making loans in accordance with ยง 769.154. The portion of the HPRP revolving loan fund that consists of revolved funds may be used for debt service reserve, approved administrative costs, or for making additional loans;


(8) A reasonable amount of revolved funds must be maintained as a reserve for bad debts. The total amount should not exceed maximum expected losses, considering the credit quality of the intermediary's portfolio of loans. The amount of reserved funds proposed by the intermediary requires written concurrence from the Agency. Unless the intermediary provides loss and delinquency records that, in the opinion of the Agency, justifies different amounts, a reserve for bad debts of 6 percent of outstanding loans must be accumulated over 5 years and then maintained; 

(9) Any funds in the HPRP revolving loan fund from any source that is not needed for debt service reserve, approved administrative costs, or reasonable reserves must be available for additional loans to ultimate recipients:


(i) Funds may not be used for any investments in securities or certificates of deposit of over 30-day duration without the Agency's concurrence; and


(ii) Any funds that have not been used within 6 months to make loans to an ultimate recipient must be returned to the Agency unless the Agency provides a written exception based on evidence satisfactory to the Agency that funds will be used within an additional 6 months;


(10) All reserves and other cash in the HPRP revolving loan fund must be deposited in accounts in banks or other financial institutions. Such accounts must be fully covered by Federal deposit insurance or the HPRP revolving loan fund must be protected by alternative measures approved by the Agency. The account must be interest-bearing, if feasible, and any interest earned on the account remains a part of the HPRP revolving loan fund; and


(11) If an intermediary receives more than one HPRP loan, it does not need to establish and maintain a separate HPRP revolving loan fund for each loan; it may combine them and maintain only one HPRP revolving loan fund.


(e) *Budgets and administrative costs.* The intermediary must submit an annual budget of proposed administrative costs for Agency approval. The annual budget should itemize cash income and cash out-flow. Projected cash income should consist of, but is not limited to, collection of principal repayment, interest repayment, interest earnings on deposits, fees, and other income. Projected cash out-flow should consist of, but is not limited to, principal and interest payments, reserve for bad debt, and an itemization of administrative costs to operate the HPRP revolving loan fund.


(1) Proceeds received from the collection of principal repayment cannot be used for administrative expenses.


(2) The amount removed from the HPRP revolving loan fund for administrative costs in any year must be reasonable, must not exceed the actual cost of operating the HPRP revolving loan fund, including loan servicing and providing technical assistance, and must not exceed the amount approved by the Agency in the intermediary's annual budget.


(f) *Loan monitoring reviews.* The Agency may conduct loan monitoring reviews, including annual and periodic reviews, and performance monitoring.


(1) At least annually, the intermediary must provide the Agency documents for reviewing the financial status of the intermediary, assessing the progress of using loan funds, and identifying any potential problems or concerns. Non-regulated intermediaries must furnish audited financial statements at least annually.


(2) The intermediary must allow the Agency or its representative to review the operations and financial condition of the intermediary upon the Agency's request. The intermediary and its agents must provide access to all pertinent information to allow the Agency, or any party authorized by the Agency, to conduct such reviews. The intermediary must submit financial or other information within 14 calendar days upon receipt of the Agency's request, unless the data requested is not available within that time frame. Failure to supply the requested information to the satisfaction of the Agency will constitute non-monetary default. The Agency may conduct reviews, including on-site reviews, of the intermediary's operations and the operations of any agent of the intermediary, for the purpose of verifying compliance with Agency regulations and guidelines. These reviews may include, but are not limited to, audits of case files; interviews with owners, managers, and staff; audits of collateral; and inspections of the intermediary's and its agents underwriting, servicing, and liquidation guidelines.


(g) *Annual monitoring reports.* Each intermediary will be monitored by the Agency through annual monitoring reports submitted by the intermediary. Annual monitoring reports must include a description of the use of loan funds, information regarding the acreage, the number of heirs both before and after loan was made, audit findings, disbursement transactions, and any other information required by the Agency, as necessary.


(h) *Unused loan funds.* If any part of the HPRP loan has not been used in accordance with the intermediary's relending plan within 3 years from the date of the HPRP loan agreement, the Agency may cancel the approval of any funds not delivered to the intermediary. The Agency may also direct the intermediary to return any funds delivered to the intermediary that have not been used by that intermediary in accordance with the intermediary's relending plan. The Agency may, at its sole discretion, allow the intermediary additional time to use the HPRP loan funds.



---

[N] [86 FR 43393, Aug. 9, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 65063, Aug. 8, 2024]






