# § 299.505   Programs of operational tests and inspections; recordkeeping.

(a) *Requirement to conduct operational tests and inspections.* The railroad shall periodically conduct operational tests and inspections to determine the extent of employee knowledge, application, and compliance with its code of operating rules, timetables, and timetable special instructions in accordance with a written program retained at its system headquarters.


(b) *Railroad and railroad testing officer responsibilities.* (1) Each railroad officer who conducts operational tests and inspections (railroad testing officer) shall—


(i) Be qualified on the railroad's operating rules in accordance with § 299.507;


(ii) Be qualified on the operational testing and inspection program requirements and procedures relevant to the testing and inspections the officer will conduct;


(iii) Receive appropriate field training, as necessary to achieve proficiency, on each operational test or inspection that the officer is authorized to conduct; and


(iv) Conduct operational tests and inspections in accordance with the railroad's program of operational tests and inspections.


(2) The railroad shall maintain a record documenting qualification of each railroad testing officer. The record shall be retained by the railroad and shall be made available to representatives of the FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours. If the railroad elects to maintain an electronic record, the railroad must satisfy the conditions listed in § 299.11.


(c) *Written program of operational tests and inspections.* Within 30 days of commencing operations, the railroad shall have a written program of operational tests and inspections in effect. The railroad shall maintain one copy of its current program for periodic performance of the operational tests and inspections required by paragraph (a) of this section, and shall maintain one copy of each subsequent amendment to the program as amendments are made. These records shall be retained at the system headquarters of the railroad for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate. These records shall be made available to representatives of the FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours. The program shall—


(1) Provide for operational testing and inspection under the various operating conditions on the railroad;


(2) Describe each type of operational test and inspection adopted, including the means and procedures used to carry it out;


(3) State the purpose of each type of operational test and inspection;


(4) State the frequency with which each type of operational test and inspection is conducted;


(5) The program shall address with particular emphasis those operating rules that cause or are likely to cause the most accidents or incidents, such as those accidents or incidents identified in the six-month reviews and the annual summaries as required under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section;


(6) Identify the officer(s) by name and job title responsible for ensuring that the program of operational tests and inspections is properly implemented and is responsible for overseeing the entire program. The responsibilities of such officer(s) shall include, but not be limited to, ensuring that the railroad's testing officers are directing their efforts in an appropriate manner to reduce accidents/incidents and that all required reviews and summaries are completed; and


(7) Include a schedule for making the program fully operative within 210 days after it begins.


(d) *Records.* (1) The railroad shall keep a written or electronic record of the date, time, place, and result of each operational test and inspection that was performed in accordance with its program. Each record shall specify the officer administering the test and inspection and each employee tested. These records shall be retained at the system headquarters of the railroad for one calendar year after the end of the calendar year to which they relate. These records shall be made available to representatives of the FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours.


(2) The railroad shall retain one copy of its current program for periodic performance of the operational tests and inspections required by paragraph (a) of this section and one copy of each subsequent amendment to such program. These records shall be retained for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate at the system headquarters where the tests and inspections are conducted. These records shall be made available to representatives of the FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours.


(e) *Reviews of tests and inspections and adjustments to the program of operational tests*—(1) *Reviews by the railroad.* Not less than once every 180 days the railroad's designated officer(s) shall conduct periodic reviews and analyses as provided in this paragraph and shall retain, at its system headquarters, one copy of the reviews. Each such review shall be completed within 30 days of the close of the period. The designated officer(s) shall conduct a written review of—


(i) The operational testing and inspection data for the system to determine compliance by the railroad testing officers with its program of operational tests and inspections required by paragraph (c) of this section. At a minimum, this review shall include the name of each railroad testing officer, the number of tests and inspections conducted by each officer, and whether the officer conducted the minimum number of each type of test or inspection required by the railroad's program;


(ii) Accident/incident data, the results of prior operational tests and inspections, and other pertinent safety data for the system to identify the relevant operating rules related to those accidents/incidents that occurred during the period. Based upon the results of that review, the designated officer(s) shall make any necessary adjustments to the tests and inspections required of railroad officers for the subsequent period(s); and


(iii) Implementation of the program of operational tests and inspections from a system perspective, to ensure that it is being utilized as intended, that the other reviews provided for in this paragraph have been properly completed, that appropriate adjustments have been made to the distribution of tests and inspections required, and that the railroad testing officers are appropriately directing their efforts.


(2) *Records retention.* The records of reviews required in paragraphs (e)(1) of this section shall be retained for a period of one year after the end of the calendar year to which they relate and shall be made available to representatives of FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours.


(f) *Annual summary on operational tests and inspections.* Before March 1 of each calendar year, the railroad shall retain, at its system headquarters, one copy of a written summary of the following with respect to its previous year's activities: The number, type, and result of each operational test and inspection that was conducted as required by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section. These records shall be retained for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate and shall be made available to representatives of FRA for inspection and copying during normal business hours.


(g) *Electronic recordkeeping.* Nothing in this section precludes the railroad from maintaining the information required to be retained under this part in an electronic format provided that the railroad satisfy the conditions listed in § 299.11.


(h) *Disapproval of program.* Upon review of the program of operational tests and inspections required by this section, the Associate Administrator for Safety may, for cause stated, disapprove the program in whole or in part. Notification of such disapproval shall be made in writing and specify the basis for the disapproval decision. If the Associate Administrator for Safety disapproves the program—


(1) The railroad has 35 days from the date of the written notification of such disapproval to—


(i) Amend its program; or


(ii) Provide a written response in support of the program to the Associate Administrator for Safety. If the Associate Administrator for Safety still disapproves the program in whole or in part after receiving the railroad's written response, the railroad shall amend its program.


(2) A failure to adequately amend the program will be considered a failure to implement a program under this subpart.




