# § 800.139   Certificating appeal inspections.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) of this section, official certificate shall be issued according to § 800.160 and the instructions. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, only the results of the appeal inspection service shall be reported.


(b) *Results of material portion sublots.* When results of an appeal inspection performed by a field office or the Board of Appeals and Review on a material portion do not detect a material error, they shall be averaged with the previous inspection results recorded on the official inspection log for the identified sample. For purposes of this section, a material error is defined as results differing by more than two standard deviations. The appeal or Board appeal inspection result shall replace the previous inspection results recorded on the official inspection log for the identified sample if a material error is detected. No certificate will be issued unless requested by the applicant or deemed necessary by inspection personnel.


(c) *Required statements.* Each appeal certificate shall show the statements required by this section, § 800.161, and applicable instructions.


(1) Each appeal inspection certificate shall clearly show (i) the term “Appeal” or “Board appeal” and (ii) a statement identifying the superseded certificate. The superseded certificate will be considered null and void as of the date of the appeal inspection certificate.


(2) When official grade or official factors, Class X weighing results, and official criteria are reported on the same certificate, the appeal inspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that appeal or Board appeal inspection results are based on official grade, official factors, or official criteria and that all other results are those of the original, reinspection, or, in the case of a Board appeal, the appeal inspection results.


(3) Superseded certificates held by the Service shall be marked “Void.” If the superseded certificate is not in the custody of the Service at the time the appeal certificate is issued, a statement indicating that the superseded certificate has not been surrendered shall be shown on the appeal certificate.


(4) As of the date of issuance of the appeal or Board appeal certificate, the superseded certificate for the original, reinspection, or appeal inspection service will be void and shall not be used to represent the grain.


(5) When certificates are issued under paragraph (b) of this section, the appeal inspection certificate shall show a statement indicating that the results replace the original inspection, reinspection, or, in the case of a Board appeal, the appeal inspection results and that the appeal inspection certificate is not valid for trading purposes.


(d) *Finality of Board appeal inspections.* A Board appeal inspection will be the final appeal inspection service.



---

[N] [50 FR 45395, Oct. 31, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 24048, June 13, 1990]




