# ยง 904.300   Scope and applicability.

(a) This subpart sets forth procedures governing the suspension, revocation, modification, and denial of permits. The bases for sanctioning a permit are set forth in ยง 904.301.


(1) *Revocation.* A permit may be cancelled, with or without prejudice to issuance of the permit in the future. Additional requirements for issuance of any future permit may be imposed.


(2) *Suspension.* A permit may be suspended either for a specified period of time or until stated requirements are met, or both. If contingent on stated requirements being met, the suspension is with prejudice to issuance of any permit until the requirements are met.


(3) *Modification.* A permit may be modified, as by imposing additional conditions and restrictions. If the permit was issued for a foreign fishing vessel under section 204(b) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, additional conditions and restrictions may be imposed on the application of the foreign nation involved and on any permits issued under such application.


(4) *Denial.* Issuance of a permit in the future may be denied through imposition of a permit denial.


(b) This subpart does not apply to the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended (51 U.S.C. 60101 *et seq.*), or to the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.*). Regulations governing denials of licenses issued under the Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992, as amended (51 U.S.C. 60101 *et seq.*), appear at 15 CFR part 960. Regulations governing sanctions and denials of permits issued under the Deep Seabed Hard Mineral Resources Act (30 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.*) appear at 15 CFR part 970.



---

[N] [87 FR 38941, June 30, 2022]




