# § 721.10011   Barium calcium manganese strontium oxide.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as barium calcium manganese strontium oxide (PMN P-00-1124; CAS No. 359427-90-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) (manufacture, processing, or use of the PMN substance if the particle size is less than 10 microns) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 14699, Mar. 29, 2007]




