# § 60.660a   Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you operate an affected facility designated in paragraph (b) of this section that produces any of the chemicals listed in § 60.667a as a product, co-product, by-product, or intermediate, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) The affected facility is any of the following for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commenced after April 25, 2023:


(1) Each distillation unit not discharging its vent stream into a recovery system.


(2) Each combination of a distillation unit and the recovery system into which its vent stream is discharged.


(3) Each combination of two or more distillation units and the common recovery system into which their vent streams are discharged.


(c) Exemptions from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section are as follows:


(1) Any distillation unit operating as part of a process unit which produces coal tar or beverage alcohols, or which uses, contains, and produces no VOC is not an affected facility.


(2) Any distillation unit that is subject to the provisions of subpart DDD is not an affected facility.


(3) Any distillation unit that is designed and operated as a batch operation is not an affected facility.


(4) Each affected facility in a process unit with a total design capacity for all chemicals produced within that unit of less than one gigagram per year is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.665a(h), (j)(6), and (o).


(5) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.008 standard cubic meter per minute (scm/min) is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 60.664a(e) and § 60.665a(i), (j)(7), and (p).


(6) Each affected facility operated with a vent stream flow rate less than 0.001 pound per hour (lb/hr) of TOC is exempt from all provisions of this subpart except for the test method and procedure and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 60.664a(f) and 60.665a(i), (j)(7), and (p).


(7) A vent stream going to a fuel gas system as defined in § 63.661a.






