# § 63.182   Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. Owners or operators requesting an extension of compliance shall also submit the report listed in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.


(1) An Initial Notification described in paragraph (b) of this section, and


(2) A Notification of Compliance Status described in paragraph (c) of this section,


(3) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (d) of this section,




(4) Fenceline Monitoring Reports described in paragraph (e) of this section, and




(5) [Reserved]


(6) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing an existing source up to 1 additional year beyond the compliance date specified in the subpart that references this subpart.


(i) For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the operating permit authority as part of the operating permit application. If the State in which the source is located does not have an approved operating permit program, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the Administrator as a separate submittal. The dates specified in § 63.6(i) of subpart A of this part for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to sources subject to this subpart.


(ii) A request for an extension of compliance must include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i) (A), (B), and (D) of subpart A of this part.


(iii) The requirements in § 63.6(i)(8) through (i)(14) of subpart A of this part will govern the review and approval of requests for extensions of compliance with this subpart.


(b) Each owner or operator of an existing or new source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a written Initial Notification to the Administrator, containing the information described in paragraph (b)(1), according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The Initial Notification provisions in § 63.9(b)(1) through (b)(3) of subpart A of this part shall not apply to owners or operators of sources subject to this subpart.


(1) The Initial Notification shall include the following information:


(i) The name and address of the owner or operator;


(ii) The address (physical location) of the affected source;


(iii) An identification of the chemical manufacturing processes subject to this subpart; and


(iv) A statement of whether the source can achieve compliance by the applicable compliance date specified in the subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart.


(2) The Initial Notification shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (b)(2)(iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) For an existing source, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 120 calendar days after the date of promulgation or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(ii) For a new source that has an initial start-up 90 days after the date of promulgation of this subpart or later, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but it need not be sooner than 90 days after the date of promulgation of the subpart that references this subpart). For a new source that reclassifies to major source status after January 19, 2021 and greater than 90 days after the initial start-up, the source shall submit the initial notification required by § 63.9(b) no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.


(iii) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to 90 days after the date of promulgation of the applicable subpart, the Initial Notification shall be submitted within 90 days after the date of promulgation of the subpart that references this subpart, or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(c) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 90 days after the compliance dates specified in the subpart in this part 63 that references this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The owner or operator shall also submit a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section, if applicable.




(1) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements of § 63.163 through § 63.174 of this subpart.


(i) Process unit identification.


(ii) Number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) excluding equipment in vacuum service.


(iii) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, “monthly leak detection and repair” or “equipped with dual mechanical seals”).


(iv) Planned schedule for each phase of the requirements in § 63.163 and § 63.168 of this subpart.


(2) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements of § 63.178(b) of this subpart.


(i) Batch products or product codes subject to the provisions of this subpart, and


(ii) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(3) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section for each process unit subject to the requirements in § 63.179 of this subpart.


(i) Process unit identification.


(ii) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of § 63.172 of this subpart.


(4) For existing sources subject to subpart F of this part, the Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted for the group of process units with the earliest compliance date specified in § 63.100(k) of subpart F of this part, by no later than 90 days after the compliance date for that group. The Notification of Compliance Status for each subsequent group shall be submitted as part of the first periodic report that is due not less than 90 days after the compliance date for that group.


(5) For pressure relief devices subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.165(e), owners and operators must also submit the information listed in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.


(i) A description of the monitoring system to be implemented, including the relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.


(ii) A description of the prevention measures to be implemented for each affected pressure relief device.




(6) For equipment that are in ethylene oxide service, as defined in § 63.101, owners and operators must also submit the information in this paragraph in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date. The supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status must identify all equipment that are in ethylene oxide service, and include the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid and the method used to determine it.








(d) The owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit Periodic Reports. On and after July 15, 2027 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, owners and operators must submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Hazardous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead. Owners and operators must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.9(i) and § 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. All Periodic Reports must include the following general information: company name, address (including county), and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.




(1) A report containing the information in paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4) of this section shall be submitted semiannually starting 6 months after the Notification of Compliance Status, as required in paragraph (c) of this section. The first periodic report shall cover the first 6 months after the compliance date specified in § 63.100(k)(3) of subpart F. Each subsequent periodic report shall cover the 6 month period following the preceding period.


(2) For each process unit complying with the provisions of § 63.163 through § 63.174, the summary information listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (xix) of this paragraph for each monitoring period during the 6-month period.




(i) The number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.168(b) of this subpart, the percent leakers, and the total number of valves monitored;


(ii) The number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.168(f) of this subpart, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(iii) The number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.163(b) of this subpart, the percent leakers, and the total number of pumps monitored;


(iv) The number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.163(c) of this subpart;


(v) The number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.164(f) of this subpart;


(vi) The number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.164(g) of this subpart;


(vii) The number of agitators for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.173(a) and (b) of this subpart;


(viii) The number of agitators for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.173(c) of this subpart;


(ix) The number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.174(a) of this subpart, the percent of connectors leaking, and the total number of connectors monitored;


(x) [Reserved]


(xi) The number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.174(d) of this subpart, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;


(xii) [Reserved]


(xiii) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process unit shutdown was technically infeasible.


(xiv) The results of all monitoring to show compliance with §§ 63.164(i), 63.165(a), and 63.172(f) of this subpart conducted within the semiannual reporting period.


(xv) If applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program under § 63.168(d)(1)(i) of this subpart, or a quality improvement program under either §§ 63.175 or 63.176 of this subpart.


(xvi) If applicable, notification of a change in connector monitoring alternatives as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of this subpart.


(xvii) If applicable, the compliance option that has been selected under § 63.172(n).


(xviii) Compliance reports for pressure relief devices subject to the requirements § 63.165(e) must include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(xviii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.165(e)(1), report the instrument readings and dates for all readings of 500 ppm or greater.


(B) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.165(e)(2), report the instrument readings and dates of instrument monitoring conducted.


(C) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.165(e)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number, the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released; the results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period; and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.




(xix) For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the owner or operator must comply with this paragraph in addition to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(xviii) of this section. For bypass lines subject to the requirements in § 63.172(j), the Periodic Report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.




(3) For owners or operators electing to meet the requirements of § 63.178(b) of this subpart, the report shall include the information listed in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph for each process unit.


(i) Batch product process equipment train identification;


(ii) The number of pressure tests conducted; 


(iii) The number of pressure tests where the equipment train failed the pressure test;


(iv) The facts that explain any delay of repairs; and


(v) The results of all monitoring to determine compliance with § 63.172(f) of this subpart.


(4) The information listed in paragraph (c) of this section for the Notification of Compliance Status for process units with later compliance dates. Any revisions to items reported in earlier Notification of Compliance Status, if the method of compliance has changed since the last report.


(e) For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.184, each owner or operator must submit Fenceline Monitoring Reports on a quarterly basis using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Hazardous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead. The first quarterly report must be submitted once the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data. The first quarterly report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified in § 63.100(k)(12) and ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs after the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data (*i.e.,* the first quarterly report will contain between 12 and 15 months of data). Each subsequent quarterly report must cover one of the following reporting periods: Quarter 1 from January 1 through March 31; Quarter 2 from April 1 through June 30; Quarter 3 from July 1 through September 30; and Quarter 4 from October 1 through December 31. Each quarterly report must be electronically submitted no later than 45 calendar days following the end of the reporting period.


(1) Facility name and address (including the county).


(2) Year and reporting quarter (*i.e.,* Quarter 1, Quarter 2, Quarter 3, or Quarter 4).


(3) For each passive tube or canister monitor: The latitude and longitude location coordinates; the sampler name; and identification of the type of sampler (*i.e.,* regular monitor, extra monitor, duplicate, field blank, inactive). Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(4) The beginning and ending dates for each sampling period.


(5) Individual sample results for each monitored compound, reported in units of µg/m3, for each monitor for each sampling period that ends during the reporting period. Results below the method detection limit must be flagged as below the detection limit and reported at the method detection limit.


(6) Data flags for each outlier determined in accordance with Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part. For each outlier, the owner or operator must submit the individual sample result of the outlier, as well as the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier. The evidence must include documentation of accidental contamination by the sample handler. High sample results attributed to unknown causes are not outliers if there is no evidence of sample contamination and the sample does not meet the requirements in Section 9.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(7) The concentration difference (Δc) for each monitored compound for each sampling period and the annual average Δc for each monitored compound for each sampling period.


(8) Indication of whether the owner or operator was required to develop a corrective action plan under § 63.184(f).


(9) Data flags for each monitor for each analyte that was skipped for the sampling period, if the owner or operator uses an alternative sampling frequency under § 63.184(a)(3)(iii) or § 63.184(b)(2)(iii).





---

[N] [59 FR 19568, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 48178, Sept. 20, 1994; 60 FR 18030, Apr. 10, 1995; 60 FR 63631, Dec. 12, 1995; 62 FR 2792, Jan. 17, 1997; 85 FR 73888, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 43226, May 16, 2024]




