# § 110.145   Narragansett Bay, R.I.

(a) *East Passage*—(1) *Anchorage A.* East of Conanicut Island, beginning at the easterly extremity of the Dumplings; extending 9° to a point at latitude 41°29′28″, longitude 71°21′05.5″; thence 356° for 5,350 feet; thence 24° for 5,700 feet; thence 12° for 1,100 feet; thence 311°30′ for 2,300 feet; thence 351° for 5,350 feet; thence 270° for 3,200 feet to the easterly side of Conanicut Island; thence generally along the easterly side of the island to a point on the easterly side of the island due west of the Dumplings; and thence due east to the point of beginning; excluding the approach of the Jamestown Ferry, a zone 900 feet wide to the southward of a line ranging 103° from a point, 300 feet north of the existing ferry landing toward the spire of Trinity Church, Newport. 


(i) That portion of the area to the northward of the approach of the Jamestown Ferry shall be restricted for the anchorage of vessels of the U.S. Navy. In that portion of the area to the southward of the approach of the Jamestown Ferry, the requirements of the Navy shall predominate. 


(ii) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place shall be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(2) *Anchorage B.* Off the west shore of Aquidneck Island to north of Coggeshall Point, northerly of a line ranging 075° from a point on the easterly end of Gould Island, latitude 41°32′13″, longitude 71°20′40.5″, toward the shore of Aquidneck Island; east of a line ranging 019° from the easternmost of the Dumplings to latitude 41°36′16″, longitude 71°17′48″; thence northeast to latitude 41°36′53″, longitude 71°17′07.5″; thence east to latitude 41°36′53″, longitude 71°16′40″; thence southwesterly to latitude 41°35′54″, longitude 71°17′17.5″; thence southeasterly to the shore at the easterly end of the north boundary of the cable area in the vicinity of Coggeshall Point; excluding the cable area in the vicinity of Coggeshall Point. 


(i) *Anchorage B-1.* Off the southerly end of Prudence Island beginning at a point at latitude 41°34′08.9″, longitude 71°19′25.8″; thence 19° for 1,900 feet; thence 289° for 1,900 feet; thence 199° for 1,900 feet; thence 109° for 1,900 feet to the point of beginning. 


(*a*) In this area the requirements of the Navy shall predominate. 


(*b*) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(ii) [Reserved] 


(3) *Anchorage C.*

(i) [Reserved] 


(ii) West of Coasters Harbor Island, west of a line bearing 351° from Tracey Ledge Buoy 5 through Seventeen-foot Spot Buoy northeast of Gull Rocks; south of a line bearing 292° from the cupola at the Naval War College; east of a line ranging 19° from the easternmost of The Dumplings toward Dyer Island North Point Shoal Lighted Bell Buoy 12A; and north of latitude 41°30′22″ which parallel passes through a point 230 yards north of Rose Island Shoal Northeast End Buoy 8. 


(iii) In this area the requirements of the Navy shall predominate. 


(iv) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(4) *Anchorage D.* West of Goat Island, an area bounded by the following coordinates:


(i) In this area the requirements of the Navy shall predominate from May 1 to October 1, subject at all times to such adjustments as may be necessary to accommodate all classes of vessels which may require anchorage room. 


(ii) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(iii) Should any part of an anchored vessel extend into the recommended vessel route in the East Passage of Narragansett Bay, a securite call notifying mariners of the vessel's exact position and status shall be made at least hourly on VHF channels 13 and 16.


(iv) As much as practicable vessels anchoring will do so in the following order:


(A) Primary anchoring point: 41°29.25′ N, 071°20.15′ W


(B) Secondary anchoring point: 41°29.38′ N, 071°20.45′ W


(C) Tertiary anchoring point: 41°29.15′ N, 071°20.50′ W


(5) *Anchorage E.* South of Coasters Harbor Island, east of a line bearing 341° from the outer end of Briggs Wharf to the southwestern shore of Coasters Harbor Island near the War College Building; and north of a line ranging 265° from the flagstaff at Fort Greene toward Rose Island Light. 


(i) In this area the requirements of the naval service will predominate from May 1 to October 1, but will at all times be subject to such adjustment as may be necessary to accommodate all classes of vessels that may require anchorage room. 


(ii) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(b) *West Passage*—(1) *Anchorage H.* North of a line 1,000 yards long bearing 88° from Bonnet Point; west of a line bearing 3° from the eastern end of the last-described line; and south of a line ranging 302° through a point 200 yards south of the Kearny wharf toward the church spire at South Ferry, Boston Neck. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(2) *Anchorage I.* North of a line 1,000 yards long bearing 88° from Bonnet Point to the shore at Austin Hollow; east of a line bearing 183° from Dutch Island Light; and south of a line ranging 302° through a point 200 yards south of the Kearny wharf toward the church spire at South Ferry, Boston Neck. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(3) *Anchorage J.* At Saunderstown, south of a line ranging 110° from the south side of the ferry wharf toward the cable crossing sign on Dutch Island; west of a line ranging 192° from Plum Beach Shoal Buoy 1 PB toward the east shore of The Bonnet; and north of a line from the shore ranging 108° toward Dutch Island Light and the north end of the wharf at Beaver Head. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(4) *Anchorage K.* In the central and southern portion of Dutch Island Harbor, north of a line ranging 106° from Beaver Head Point Shoal Buoy 2 toward the Jamestown standpipe; east of a line ranging 14° from Beaver Head Point Shoal Buoy 2 toward the inshore end of the engineer wharf, Dutch Island; southeast of a line ranging 50° from Dutch Island Light toward the windmill north of Jamestown; and south of a line parallel to and 100 yards southwesterly from a line ranging 132° from the engineer wharf, Dutch Island, and the west ferry wharf, Jamestown. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(5) *Anchorage L.* North of a line ranging 101° from a point on shore 300 yards northerly of the Saunderstown ferry wharf toward the entrance to Round Swamp, Conanicut Island; west of a line bearing 15° parallel to and 1,000 feet westerly from a line joining the western point of Dutch Island and Twenty-three Foot Rock Buoy 4, and a line ranging 6° from Dutch Island Light toward Warwick Light; and south of a line ranging 290° from Sand Point, Conanicut Island, to Wickford Harbor Light, and a line bearing 226° from Wickford Harbor Light to Poplar Point tower. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(6) *Anchorage M.* East and north of Dutch Island, northeast of a line ranging 316° from the inshore end of the west ferry wharf, Jamestown, toward the north end of Dutch Island to a point bearing 88°, 200 yards, from the engineer wharf, Dutch Island, thence ranging 3° toward the shore of Conanicut Island at Slocum Ledge; north of a line 200 yards off the Dutch Island shore ranging 281° from the entrance to Round Swamp toward a point on shore 300 yards northerly from the Saunderstown ferry wharf; east of a line ranging 15° from the western point of Dutch Island to Twenty-three Foot Rock Buoy 4; and south of a line bearing 77° from Twenty-three Foot Rock Buoy 4 to the shore. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(7) *Anchorage N.* West of the north end of Conanicut Island, south of a line bearing 262° from Conanicut Island Light; east of a line bearing 8° from Twenty-three Foot Rock Buoy 4; and north of a line ranging 290° from Sand Point toward Wickford Harbor Light. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(c) *Bristol Harbor*—(1) *Anchorage O.* South of the south line of Franklin Street extended westerly; west of a line bearing 164°30′ parallel to and 400 feet westerly from the State harbor line between Franklin and Constitution Streets, and of a line ranging 244° from a point on the north line of Constitution Street extended 400 feet beyond the State harbor line toward Usher Rock Buoy 3; and north of the north line of Union Street extended to the Popasquash Neck shore. 


(i) Temporary floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in this area. Fixed mooring piles or stakes will not be allowed. 


(d) *The regulations.* (1) Except in cases of great emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in the entrances to Narragansett Bay, in Newport Harbor, or in Bristol Harbor, outside of the anchorage areas defined in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. 


(2) Anchors must not be placed outside the anchorage areas, nor shall any vessel be so anchored that any portion of the hull or rigging shall at any time extend outside the boundaries of the anchorage area. However, Anchorage D (paragraph (a)(4) of this section) is exempt from this requirement.


(3) Any vessel anchoring under the circumstances of great emergency outside the anchorage areas must be placed near the edge of the channel and in such position as not to interfere with the free navigation of the channel, nor obstruct the approach to any pier, nor impede the movement of any boat, and shall move away immediately after the emergency ceases, or upon notification by an officer of the Coast Guard. 


(4) A vessel upon being notified to move into the anchorage limits or to shift its position on anchorage grounds must get under way at once or signal for a tug, and must change position as directed with reasonable promptness. 


(5) Whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, any officer of the Coast Guard is hereby empowered to shift the position of any vessel anchored within the anchorage areas, of any vessel anchored outside the anchorage areas, and of any vessel which is so moored or anchored as to impede or obstruct vessel movements in any channel. 


(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of the law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the navigation laws in regard to lights, fog signals, or for otherwise violating the law. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967]


