# ยง 200.24a   Director of the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy.

The Director of the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is responsible to the Chairman for the Commission's investor education and investor assistance programs. These programs include, but are not limited to:


(a) Educating investors through in-person outreach, digital and social media, and other communication channels, including the Commission's website for individual investors, *Investor.gov*, by preparing and distributing to the public educational content describing the operations of the securities markets, developing strategies for prudent investor behavior, and increasing public knowledge of the functions of the Commission.


(b) Implementing and administering a nationwide system for resolving investor complaints against individuals and entities regulated by the Commission by processing complaints received from individual investors and seeking to ensure that regulated individuals and entities process and respond to such complaints.


(c) Providing information to investors and others who inquire about individuals and entities regulated by the Commission, the operation of the securities markets, or the functions of the Commission.


(d) Advising the Commission and its staff, and exchanging information with domestic and international regulators and self-regulatory organizations, about problems frequently encountered by investors and possible solutions to them.


(e) Transmitting to other offices and divisions of the Commission information provided by investors which concerns the responsibilities of these offices and divisions.


(f) Providing for greater investor input in Commission rulemaking proceedings.



---

[N] [86 FR 9443, Feb. 16, 2021]




