# § 412.90   General rules.

(a) *Sole community hospitals.* CMS may adjust the prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs determined under subpart D or E of this part if a hospital, by reason of factors such as isolated location, weather conditions, travel conditions, or absence of other hosptials, is the sole source of inpatient hospital services reasonably available in a geographic area to Medicare beneficiaries. If a hospital meets the criteria for such an exception under § 412.92(a), its prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs are determined under § 412.92(d).


(b) *Referral center.* CMS may adjust the prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs determined under subpart D or E of this part if a hospital acts as a referral center for patients transferred from other hospitals. Criteria for identifying such referral centers are set forth in § 412.96.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Kidney acquisition costs incurred by hospitals with approved kidney transplant programs.* CMS pays for kidney acquisition costs incurred by kidney transplant programs on a reasonable cost basis. The criteria for this special payment provision are set forth in § 412.100.


(e) *Hospitals located in areas that are reclassified from urban to rural.* (1) CMS adjusts the rural Federal payment amounts for inpatient operating costs for hospitals located in geographic areas that are reclassified from urban to rural as defined in subpart D of this part. This adjustment is set forth in § 412.102. 


(2) CMS establishes a procedure by which certain individual hospitals located in urban areas may apply for reclassification as rural. The criteria for reclassification are set forth in § 412.103. 


(f) *Hospitals that have a high percentage of ESRD beneficiary discharges.* CMS makes an additional payment to a hospital if ten percent or more of its total Medicare discharges in a cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1984 are ESRD beneficiary discharges. In determining ESRD discharges, discharges in DRG Nos. 302, 316, and 317 are excluded. The criteria for this additional payment are set forth in § 412.104.


(g) *Hosptials that incur indirect costs for graduate medical education programs.* CMS makes an additional payment for inpatient operating costs to a hospital for indirect medical education costs attributable to an approved graduate medical education program. The criteria for this additional payment are set forth in § 412.105. 


(h) *Hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients.* For discharges occurring on or after May 1, 1986, CMS makes an additional payment for inpatient operating costs to hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The criteria for this additional payment are set forth in § 412.106.


(i) *Hospitals that receive an additional update for FYs 1998 and 1999.* For FYs 1998 and 1999, CMS makes an upward adjustment to the standardized amounts for certain hospitals that do not receive indirect medical education or disproportionate share payments and are not Medicare- dependent, small rural hospitals. The criteria for identifying these hospitals are set forth in § 412.107. 


(j) *Medicare-dependent, small rural hospitals.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after April 1, 1990, and before October 1, 1994, and for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1997 and before January 1, 2025, CMS adjusts the prospective payment rates for inpatient operating costs determined under subparts D and E of this part if a hospital is classified as a Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital.


(k) *Essential access community hospitals (EACHs).* If a hospital was designated as an EACH by CMS as described in § 412.109(a) and is located in a rural area as defined in § 412.109(b), CMS determines the prospective payment rate for that hospital, as it does for sole community hospitals, under § 412.92(d). 



---

[N] [57 FR 39823, Sept. 1, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 30669, May 26, 1993; 62 FR 46028, Aug. 29, 1997; 64 FR 67051, Nov. 30, 1999; 65 FR 47047, Aug. 1, 2000; 70 FR 47485, Aug. 12, 2005; 71 FR 48138, Aug. 18, 2006; 82 FR 38511, Aug. 14, 2017; 83 FR 41701, Aug. 17, 2018; 86 FR 73511, Dec. 27, 2021; 88 FR 59331, Aug. 28, 2023; 89 FR 69910, Aug. 28, 2024]






