# ยง 2.305   Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Act* means the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, including amendments made by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*

(2) *Person* has the meaning given it in section 1004(15) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6903(15).


(3) *Hazardous waste* has the meaning given it in section 1004(5) of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6903(5).


(4) *Proceeding* means any rulemaking, adjudication, or licensing conducted by EPA under the Act or under regulations which implement the Act including the issuance of administrative orders and the approval or disapproval of plans (e.g. closure plans) submitted by persons subject to regulation under the Act, but not including determinations under this subpart.


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies to information provided to or obtained by EPA under section 3001(b)(3)(B), 3007, or 9005 of the Act, 42 U.S.C 6921(b)(3)(B), 6927, or 6995. Information will be considered to have been provided or obtained under sections 3001(b)(3)(B), 3007, or 9005 of the Act if it was provided in response to a request from EDA made for any of the purposes stated in the Act or if its submission could have been required under those provisions of the Act regardless of whether a specific section was cited as the authority for any request for the information or whether the information was provide directly to EPA or through some third person.


(c) *Basic rules which apply without change.* Sections 2.201 through 2.207 and 2.209 through 2.215 apply without change to information to which this section applies.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Substantive criteria for use in confidentiality determinations.* Section 2.208 applies without change to information to which this section applies; however, no information to which this section applies is voluntarily submitted information.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Disclosure of information relevant in a proceeding.* (1) Under sections 3007(b) and 9005(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6927(b) and 6995(b)), any information to which this section applies may be disclosed by EPA because of the relevance of the information in a proceeding under the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Disclosure of information to which this section applies because of its relevance in a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).


(2)-(4) The provisions of ยง 2.301(g) (2), (3), and (4) are incorporated by reference as paragraphs (g) (2), (3), and (4), respectively, of this section.


(h) *Disclosure to authorized representatives.* (1) Under sections 3001(b)(3)(B), 3007(b), and 9005(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6921(b)(3)(B), 6927(b), and 6995(b)), EPA possesses authority to disclose to any authorized representative of the United States any information to which this section applies, notwithstanding the fact that the information might otherwise be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Such authority may be exercised only in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this section.


(2)-(3) The provisions of ยง 2.301(h) (2) and (3) are incorporated by reference as paragraphs (h) (2) and (3), respectively, of this section.


(4) At the time any information is furnished to a contractor, subcontractor, or State or local government agency under this paragraph (h), the EPA office furnishing the information to the contractor, subcontractor, or State or local government agency shall notify the contractor, subcontractor, or State or local government agency that the information may be entitled to confidential treatment and that any knowing and willful disclosure of the information may subject the contractor, subcontractor, or State or local government agency and its employees to penalties in section 3001(b)(3)(B), 3007(b)(2), or 9005(b)(1) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6921(b)(3)(B), 6927(b), or 6995(b)).



---

[N] [43 FR 40003, Sept. 8, 1978, as amended at 50 FR 51662, Dec. 18, 1985]












