# ยง 310.56   Physical requirements.

(a) *Physical standards.* (1) A candidate shall meet the physical requirements prescribed by the Department of the Navy for appointment as Midshipman, USNR (including the Merchant Marine Reserve, USNR) and the requirements prescribed by the U.S. Coast Guard for original licensing as a third mate and third assistant engineer. All candidates shall have color perception and refractive error within the limits prescribed by the Department of the Navy or by the U.S. Coast Guard, whichever are higher.


(2) The requirement to meet these standards is a continuing one and shall apply through graduation from the Academy. Failure to meet the standards while attending the Academy is grounds for, and may lead to disenrollment. Individuals who have completed at least two years of study and, as a result of an accident, illness or other cause (during official duty), fail to meet this requirement may be permitted to remain at the Academy at the discretion of, and under conditions set by, the Administrator. Those individuals permitted to remain through graduation will agree to fulfill aspects of the service obligation which they are capable of, as deemed appropriate by the Administrator.


(b) *Qualifying physical examinations.* All candidates for the Academy shall have a physical and dental examination conducted by a service academy examining facility designated by the Service Academies Central Medical Review Board. The required physical examination shall occur within 1 year preceding the date of admission to the Academy. Although there is no charge for such examination, all expenses (including travel, meals and hotel accommodations) incurred in obtaining such examination shall be borne by the applicant. Candidates may be subject to reexamination upon reporting to the Academy and at any time while attending the Academy.


(c) *Physical reexamination.* A candidate who is rejected for failure to meet the physical requirements may request either a reevaluation of the examination results or a reexamination. A midshipman failing to meet the physical requirements while attending the Academy is entitled to make the same request.


(d) *Waivers.* Some medical requirements may be waived for enrolled students and applicants to the USMMA who require such a medical waiver to qualify for admission and/or retention. Since commissioning in the United States Navy, or any other branch of the Armed Forces, is a requirement for graduation, no waivers will be granted for medical conditions which would prevent commissioning in at least a restricted status in the U.S. Navy Reserve. Individuals interested in waiver consideration may request a waiver by writing to the Superintendent, USMMA. The granting of medical waivers will be based on U.S. Navy guidelines and regulations for waiver consideration for admission to the U.S. Naval Academy and the physical requirements consistent with commissioning as a reserve officer in the U.S. Navy in a restricted line program. Individuals requesting medical waivers must be able to meet all other admission requirements, including the physical examination requirement for an original U.S. Coast Guard merchant marine license as a third mate and/or third assistant engineer. The decision of the Superintendent on any requested waiver is administratively final.



---

[N] [47 FR 21812, May 20, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 46952, Nov. 8, 1990]




