# ยง 120.835   Application to expand an Area of Operations.

(a) *General.* A CDC that has been certified to participate in the 504 program may apply to expand its Area of Operations if it meets all requirements to be an Accredited Lender Program (ALP) CDC, as set forth in ยง 120.840(c), and demonstrates that it can competently fulfill its 504 program responsibilities in the proposed area. 


(b) *Local Economic Area Expansion.* A CDC seeking to expand its Area of Operations into a Local Economic Area must apply in writing to the Lead SBA Office. 


(c) *Multi-State expansion.* A CDC seeking to become a Multi-State CDC must apply to the SBA District Office that services the area within each State where the CDC intends to locate its principal office for that State. A CDC may apply to be a Multi-State CDC only if the State the CDC seeks to expand into is contiguous to the State of the CDC's incorporation and either:


(1) The CDC establishes a Loan Committee in the additional State consisting only of members who live or work in that State and that satisfies the other requirements in ยง 120.823(d)(4)(ii)(A) through (D); or


(2) For any Project located in the additional State, the CDC's Board or Loan Committee (if established in the CDC's State of incorporation) includes at least two members who live or work in that State when voting on that Project. These two members may vote only on Projects located in the additional State.



---

[N] [68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 15650, Mar. 21, 2014; 84 FR 66295, Dec. 4, 2019]




