# ยง 54.1011   5G Fund.

(a) The Commission will use competitive bidding, as provided in part 1, subpart AA, of this chapter, to determine the recipients of support available through the 5G Fund and the amount(s) of support that they may receive for specific geographic areas, subject to applicable post-auction procedures.


(b) 5G Fund support will be awarded in two phases using multi-round, descending clock auctions.




(c) Areas eligible for 5G Fund Phase I support will be those areas identified by the Office of Economics and Analytics and Wireline Competition Bureau in a public notice that:


(1) Show a lack of unsubsidized 5G mobile wireless broadband coverage at a download speed of 7 Mbps and an upload speed of 1 Mbps in an outdoor stationary environment by at least one provider based on the mobile broadband coverage maps created by the Commission pursuant to ยง 1.7008 of this chapter;


(2) Do not contain urban areas, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau; and


(3) Contain at least one location or at least some portion of a road.








(d) The Commission will incorporate a service-based weighting factor into the 5G Fund auction design that will assign a weight to each geographic area eligible in the 5G Fund Phase I auction using the weighting values adopted by the Office of Economics and Analytics and Wireline Competition Bureau and announced in a public notice.


(e) The Commission will incorporate an adjustment factor into the methodology for disaggregation of high-cost legacy support pursuant to ยง 54.307(e)(5)(iii) and (iv) that will assign a weight to each geographic area using the adjustment factor values adopted by the Office of Economics and Analytics and Wireline Competition Bureau and announced in the *Adjustment Factor Values Public Notice,* DA 20-1361.







---

[N] [76 FR 73877, Nov. 29, 2011, as amended at 89 FR 101398, Dec. 13, 2024]








