# § 31.400   Samples for wool and wool top grades; method of obtaining.

Samples certified as representative of the official standards of the United States for grades of wool and wool top will be furnished as follows, subject to other conditions of this section, upon filing of an approved application and prepayment of costs thereof as fixed in §§ 31.401 and 31.402. The certification will be issued by the United States Department of Agriculture and will be signed by the Director of the Livestock Division or other duly authorized official. 


(a) Samples representative of each of the standard grades of wool: 


(1) *Complete set:* Grades 80's through 36's. Fourteen samples, each of approximately 
1/8 pound grease wool, or 


(2) *Individual sample:* Individual samples of approximately 
1/8 pound of grease wool. 


(b) Samples representative of each of the standard grades of wool top: 


(1) *Complete set:* Grades 80's through 36's. Fourteen samples, each of approximately 3 ounces wool top, or 


(2) *Individual sample:* Individual samples of approximately 3 ounces of wool top, representing a standard grade. 


(c) Each application for standard samples of wool or wool top shall be upon an application form furnished or approved by the Agricultural Marketing Service, shall be signed by the applicant, and shall be accompanied by certified check, draft, post office money order, or express money order, payable to the “Agricultural Marketing Service,” in an amount to cover the cost of the samples requested, and shall incorporate the following agreement: 


(1) That no samples representative of the official wool or wool top standards shall be considered or used as representing such standards after cancellation in accordance with this section. 


(2) That the said standard samples shall be subject to inspection by the Secretary or by any duly authorized officer or agent of the Department of Agriculture during usual business hours of the person having custody of the samples. 


(3) That the certificate covering any of the samples representative of the standards may be revoked and canceled by the Director of the Livestock Division if it is found upon such inspection that the said samples are not representative of the official standards.


