# § 400.52   Notices and hearings.

(a) *In general.* The Executive Secretary shall publish notice in the _Federal Register_ inviting public comment on applications and notifications for Board action (see, §§ 400.32 and 400.37(b)), and with regard to other reviews or matters considered under this part when public comment is necessary. An applicant under §§ 400.21, 400.24(b) and 400.25 shall give appropriate notice of its proposal in a local, general-circulation newspaper at least 15 days prior to the close of the public comment period for the proposal in question. The Board, the Secretary of Commerce, the Commerce Department's Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance, or the Executive Secretary, as appropriate, may schedule and/or hold hearings during any proceedings or reviews conducted under this part whenever necessary or appropriate.


(b) *Requests for hearings.* (1) A party who may be materially affected by the zone activity in question and who shows good cause may request a hearing during a proceeding or review.


(2) The request must be made within 30 days of the beginning of the initial period for public comment (*see* § 400.32) and must be accompanied by information establishing the need for the hearing and the basis for the requesting party's interest in the matter.


(3) A determination as to the need for the hearing shall be made by the Commerce Department's Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and Compliance within 15 days after the receipt of such a request.


(c) *Procedure for public hearings.* The Board shall publish notice in the _Federal Register_ of the date, time and location of a public hearing. All participants shall have the opportunity to make a presentation. Applicants and their witnesses shall ordinarily appear first. The presiding officer may adopt time limits for individual presentations.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8530, Feb. 8, 2024]




