# § 1090.1230   Recordkeeping requirements for oxygenate producers.

(a) *Oxygenate producers.* In addition to the requirements in § 1090.1205, an oxygenate producer must keep records of the following information for each batch of oxygenate:


(1) The batch volume.


(2) The batch number.


(3) The date the batch was produced or imported.


(4) The PTD for the batch.


(5) The sulfur content of the batch.


(6) The sampling and testing records specified in § 1090.1205(c), if the sulfur content of the batch was determined by analytical testing.


(b) *DFE producers.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a DFE producer must keep records of the following information for each batch of DFE if the sulfur content of the batch was determined under § 1090.1330:


(1) The name and title of the person who calculated the sulfur content of the batch.


(2) The date the calculation was performed.


(3) The calculated sulfur content.


(4) The sulfur content of the neat (un-denatured) ethanol.


(5) The date each batch of neat ethanol was produced.


(6) The neat ethanol batch number.


(7) The neat ethanol batch volume.


(8) As applicable, the neat ethanol production quality control records, or the test results on the neat ethanol, including all the following:


(i) The location, date, time, and storage tank or truck identification for each sample collected.


(ii) The name and title of the person who collected the sample and the person who performed the test.


(iii) The results of the test as originally printed by the testing apparatus, or where no printed result is produced, the results as originally recorded by the person who performed the test.


(iv) Any record that contains a test result for the sample that is not identical to the result recorded in paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section.


(v) The test methodology used.


(9) The sulfur content of each batch of denaturant used, and the volume percent at which the denaturant was added to neat (un-denatured) ethanol to produce DFE.


(10) The PTD for each batch of denaturant used.


(c) *Parties that take custody of oxygenate.* All parties that take custody of oxygenate—from the oxygenate producer through to the oxygenate blender—must keep records of the following information:


(1) The PTD for each batch of oxygenate.


(2) [Reserved]




