# ยง 159.22   Net weights and tares.

(a) *Determination of net weight.* The net weight of merchandise dutiable by net weight, or upon a value dependent upon net weight, shall be determined insofar as possible by obtaining the actual weight, or by deducting the actual or schedule tare from the gross weight. Actual tare may be determined on the basis of tests when the tares of the packages in a shipment are reasonably uniform. 


(b) *Invoice net weight or tare.* When the actual net weight or tare cannot reasonably be determined and no schedule tare is applicable, liquidation may be made on the basis of the invoice net weight or tare. 


(c) *Schedule tare.* The following tares, which, from experience, have proved to be the average for certain classes of merchandise shall be known as schedule tares and shall be applied, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section: 


(d) *Actual tare.* In the following circumstances, the actual tare shall be ascertained and in so doing the weigher shall empty and weigh as many casks, boxes, and other coverings as he may deem necessary: 


(1) If the importer is not satisfied with the invoice tare or with the schedule tare; 


(2) If the Center director is of the opinion that the invoice or schedule tare does not correctly represent the tare of the merchandise; or 


(3) If the weigher has reason to believe that the invoice or schedule tare is greater than the real tare. 


(e) *Estimated tare.* When it is impracticable to ascertain the actual tare, the weigher shall state in his report what, in his judgment, constitutes a fair tare allowance. 


(f) *Weight for value purposes.* In determining the total dutiable value of merchandise which is subject to ad valorem duty and appraised on the basis of weight, liquidation shall be made on the same basis as appraisement. For example, if appraisement is made on the basis of gross weight, the unit value shall be multiplied by the total gross weight in computing the total value even though net weight may be used for other purposes in liquidation, such as in determining total specific duties. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17482, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51270, Dec. 21, 1988]




