# ยง 816.73   Disposal of excess spoil: Durable rock fills.

The regulatory authority may approve the alternative method of disposal of excess durable rock spoil by gravity placement in single or multiple lifts, provided the following conditions are met:


(a) Except as provided in this section, the requirements of ยง 816.71 are met.


(b) The excess spoil consists of at least 80 percent, by volume, durable, nonacid- and nontoxic-forming rock (*e.g.,* sandstone or limestone) that does not slake in water and will not degrade to soil material. Where used, noncemented clay shale, clay spoil, soil or other nondurable excess spoil materials shall be mixed with excess durable rock spoil in a controlled manner such that no more than 20 percent of the fill volume, as determined by tests performed by a registered engineer and approved by the regulatory authority, is not durable rock.


(c) A qualified registered professional engineer certifies that the design will ensure the stability of the fill and meet all other applicable requirements.


(d) The fill is designed to attain a minimum long-term static safety factor of 1.5, and an earthquake safety factor of 1.1.


(e) The underdrain system may be constructed simultaneously with excess spoil placement by the natural segregation of dumped materials, provided the resulting underdrain system is capable of carrying anticipated seepage of water due to rainfall away from the excess spoil fill and from seeps and springs in the foundation of the disposal area and the other requirements for drainage control are met.


(f) Surface water runoff from areas adjacent to and above the fill is not allowed to flow onto the fill and is diverted into stabilized diversion channels designed to meet the requirements of ยง 816.43 and to safely pass the runoff from a 100-year, 6-hour precipitation event.



---

[N] [48 FR 32926, July 19, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 44780, Sept. 30, 1983; 81 FR 93392, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54979, Nov. 17, 2017]




