# § 762.1   Scope.

In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C.


(a) *Transactions subject to this part.* The recordkeeping provisions of this part apply to the following transactions:


(1) Transactions involving restrictive trade practices or boycotts described in part 760 of the EAR;


(2) Exports of commodities, software, or technology from the United States and any known reexports, transfers (in-country), transshipment, or diversions of items exported from the United States;


(3) Exports to Canada, if, at any stage in the transaction, it appears that a person in a country other than the United States or Canada has an interest therein, or that the item involved is to be reexported, transshipped, or diverted from Canada to another foreign country; or


(4) Any other transactions subject to the EAR, including, but not limited to, the prohibitions against servicing, forwarding and other actions for or on behalf of end-users of proliferation concern contained in §§ 736.2(b)(7) and 744.6 of the EAR. This part also applies to all negotiations connected with those transactions, except that for export control matters a mere preliminary inquiry or offer to do business and negative response thereto shall not constitute negotiations, unless the inquiry or offer to do business proposes a transaction that a reasonably prudent exporter would believe likely to lead to a violation of the EAA, the EAR or any order, license or authorization issued thereunder.


(b) *Persons subject to this part.* Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who, as principal or agent (including a forwarding agent), participates in any transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, and any person in the United States or abroad who is required to make and maintain records under any provision of the EAR, shall keep and maintain all records described in § 762.2 of this part that are made or obtained by that person and shall produce them in a manner provided by § 762.7 of this part.



---

[N] [61 FR 12900, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 22249, Apr. 29, 2005; 78 FR 13471, Feb. 28, 2013; 87 FR 57106, Sept. 16, 2022]




