# § 1660.9   Procedures—requirements and determinations.

(a) A litigation request or demand must describe, in writing and with specificity, the nature of the official information or witness testimony sought, its relevance to the litigation, and other pertinent details addressing the factors in § 1660.8.


(b) A litigation request or demand must be submitted at least 30 days before the desired date to the Selective Service System, General Counsel, 1501 Wilson Blvd., Suite 800, Arlington, Virginia 22209.


(c) Personnel and former personnel (*e.g.,* retired employees and Reserve Service Members, past volunteers) who receive a litigation request or demand must notify the SSS GC or their SSS legal advisor immediately.


(d) If another Federal agency originated the responsive information or otherwise has the primary equity with respect to that information, the SSS GC will:


(1) Transfer the litigation request or demand (or the appropriate portions) to such other agency for action.


(2) Inform the requesting party or issuing court.


(e) If the litigation request or demand requires a response before a determination can be made, the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor will inform the requesting party or the issuing court (through the Department of Justice) that the request or demand is still under consideration. The SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor also may seek a stay from the court in question until a final determination is made.


(f) Upon making a final determination pursuant to § 1660.7(a), the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor will inform the requesting party or issuing court.


(g) If the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor approves the release of official information or the presentation of witness testimony, personnel will limit the disclosure to those matters approved by the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor. Personnel may not release, produce, comment on, or testify about any official information without the prior written approval of the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor.


(h) If a court orders a disclosure that the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor previously disapproved or has yet to approve, personnel must respectfully decline to comply with the court's order unless the SSS GC or other SSS legal advisor directs otherwise.






