# § 231.5   Drop-end low-side gondola cars.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion.


(ii) The brake shaft shall be located on end of car to the left of center.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the brakes from right to left side on steel or steel-underframe cars with platform end sills, in service July 1, 1911, except when such appliances are renewed, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(4)), provided that top brake-shaft support may be omitted.


(b) *Sill steps.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(d)).


(c) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each end on each side of car, not less than 24 nor more than 30 inches above center line of coupler, if car construction will permit, but handhold shall not project above top of side. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be no more than 8 inches from end of car.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(4)).


(d) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each side of each end of car on face of end sill. Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 16 inches from side of car.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(4)).


(e) *Uncoupling levers.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)).


(f) *End-ladder clearance.* (1) No part of car above end sills within 30 inches from side of car, except buffer block, brake shaft, brake wheel or uncoupling lever shall extend to within 12 inches of a vertical plane parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block or end sill, and no other part of end of car or fixtures on same above end sills, other than exceptions noted in this subparagraph shall extend beyond the outer face of buffer block.


(2) Carriers are not required to make changes to secure additional end-ladder clearance on cars in service July 1, 1911, that have 10 or more inches end-ladder clearance, within 30 inches of side of car, until car is shopped for work amounting to practically rebuilding body of car, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.




