# § 56.97-1   General (replaces 137).

(a) *Scope.* The requirements in this subpart apply to pressure tests of piping in lieu of 137 of ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see § 56.01-2). Those paragraphs reproduced are so noted.


(b) *Leak tightness.* It is mandatory that the piping constructed demonstrates leak tightness. Except where otherwise permitted, this requirement must be met by a hydrostatic leak test prior to initial operations. Where a hydrostatic test is not practicable, a pneumatic test (§ 56.97-35) or initial service leak test (§ 56.97-38) may be substituted if approved by the Commandant.


(1) At no time during the hydrostatic test may any part of the piping system be subjected to a stress greater than 90 percent of its yield strength (0.2 percent offset) at test temperature.


(2) Pneumatic tests may be used in lieu of the required hydrostatic test (except as permitted in paragraph (b)(3) of this section), only when—


(i) Piping subassemblies or systems are so designed or supported that they cannot be safely filled with water; or


(ii) Piping systems are to be used in services where traces of water cannot be tolerated and, whenever possible, the piping subassemblies or system have been previously hydrostatically tested to the pressure required in § 56.97-30(e).


(3) A pneumatic test at a pressure not to exceed 25 psig may be applied before a hydrostatic or a pneumatic test as a means of locating major leaks. The preliminary pneumatic test must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of § 56.97-35.



---

[N] [CGD 73-254, 40 FR 40167, Sept. 2, 1975, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65185, Oct. 31, 2008]




