# § 700.1   Definitions.

These are the definitions for terms used in this part. Different definitions may be found in Federal statutes or regulations that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities.


*Agreement Officer* means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, terminate, and closeout assistance agreements subject to this part, and make related determinations and findings on behalf of USAID. An Agreement Officer can only act within the scope of a duly authorized warrant or other valid delegation of authority. The term “Agreement Officer” includes persons warranted as “Grant Officers” and certain authorized representatives of the Agreement Officer acting within the limits of their authority as delegated by the Agreement Officer.


*An apparently successful applicant* means the applicant for USAID funding that the Agreement Officer recommends for an award after merit review, but who has not yet been awarded a grant, cooperative agreement or other assistance award. Apparently successful applicant status confers no right and constitutes no USAID commitment to an award, which still must be executed by the Agreement Officer.


*Award* has the same meaning as *Federal award* as defined in 2 CFR 200.1.


*Commodities* mean any material, article, supply, goods or equipment, excluding recipient offices, vehicles, and non-deliverable items for recipient's internal use in administration of the USAID-funded grant, cooperative agreement, or other agreement or subaward.


*End date* means the date on which the recipient or subrecipient completes all work under an award or the date on the award document, or any supplement or amendment, on which USAID sponsorship ends.


*Program* means the organized set of activities directed toward a common purpose, objective, or goal that a recipient or subrecipient undertakes or proposes.


*Suspension* means an action by USAID that temporarily withdraws Federal sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to resume or terminate the award. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under USAID regulations implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.” See 2 CFR part 780.


*USAID* means the United States Agency for International Development.






