# § 1.403(b)-11   Applicable dates.

(a) *General rule.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, §§ 1.403(b)-1 through 1.403(b)-10 apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2008.


(b) *Collective bargaining agreements.* In the case of a section 403(b) plan maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements that have been ratified and in effect on July 26, 2007, §§ 1.403(b)-1 through 1.403(b)-10 do not apply before the earlier of—


(1) The date on which the last of the collective bargaining agreements terminates (determined without regard to any extension thereof after July 26, 2007); or


(2) July 26, 2010.


(c) *Church conventions; retirement income account.* (1) In the case of a section 403(b) plan maintained by a church-related organization for which the authority to amend the plan is held by a church convention (within the meaning of section 414(e)), §§ 1.403(b)-1 through 1.403(b)-10 do not apply before the first day of the first plan year that begins after December 31, 2009.


(2) In the case of a loan or other extension of credit to the employer that was entered into under a retirement income account before July 26, 2007, the plan does not fail to satisfy § 1.403(b)-9(a)(2)(i)(C) on account of the loan or other extension of credit if the plan takes reasonable steps to eliminate the loan or other extension of credit to the employer before the applicable date for § 1.403(b)-9(a)(2) or as promptly as practical thereafter (including taking steps after July 26, 2007 and before the applicable date).


(d) *Special rules for plans that exclude certain types of employees from elective deferrals.* (1) If, on July 26, 2007, a plan excludes any of the following categories of employees, then the plan does not fail to satisfy § 1.403(b)-5(b) as a result of that exclusion before the first day of the first taxable year that begins after December 31, 2009:


(i) Employees who make a one-time election to participate in a governmental plan described in section 414(d) that is not a section 403(b) plan.


(ii) Professors who are providing services on a temporary basis to another educational organization (as defined under section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii)) for up to one year and for whom section 403(b) contributions are being made at a rate no greater than the rate each such professor would receive under the section 403(b) plan of the original educational organization.


(iii) Employees who are affiliated with a religious order and who have taken a vow of poverty where the religious order provides for the support of such employees in their retirement from eligibility to make elective deferrals.


(2) If, on July 26, 2007, a plan excludes employees who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement from eligibility to make elective deferrals, the plan does not fail to satisfy § 1.403(b)-5(b) (relating to universal availability) as a result of that exclusion before the later of—


(i) The first day of the first taxable year that begins after December 31, 2008; or


(ii) The earlier of—


(A) The date on which the related collective bargaining agreement terminates (determined without regard to any extension thereof after July 26, 2007); or


(B) July 26, 2010.


(3) In the case of a governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d)) for which the authority to amend the plan is held by a legislative body that meets in legislative session, the plan does not fail to satisfy § 1.403(b)-5(b) as a result of any exclusion in paragraph (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii),(d)(1)(iii), or (d)(2) of this section before the earlier of —


(i) The close of the first regular legislative session of the legislative body with the authority to amend the plan that begins on or after January 1, 2009; or


(ii) January 1, 2011.


(e) *Special rules for plans that permit in-service distributions.* (1) Section 1.403(b)-6(b) does not apply to a contract issued by an insurance company before January 1, 2009.


(2) Any amendment to comply with the requirements of § 1.403(b)-6 (disregarding paragraph (e)(1) of this section) that is adopted before January 1, 2009, or such later date as may be permitted under guidance issued by the Commissioner in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter), does not violate section 204(g) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to the extent the amendment eliminates or reduces a right to receive benefit distributions during employment.


(f) *Special rule for life insurance contracts.* Section 1.403(b)-8(c)(2) does not apply to a contract issued before September 24, 2007.


(g) *Special rule for contracts received in an exchange.* Section 1.403(b)-10(b)(2) does not apply to a contract received in an exchange that occurred on or before September 24, 2007 if the exchange (including the contract received in the exchange) satisfies such rules as the Commissioner has prescribed in guidance of general applicability at the time of the exchange.


(h) *Special rule for coordination with regulations under section 415.* Section 1.403(b)-3(b)(4)(ii) is applicable for taxable years beginning on or after July 1, 2007.


(i) *Special rule for coordination with regulations under section 402A.* Sections 1.403(b)-3(c), 1.403(b)-7(e), and 1.403(b)-10(d)(2) are applicable with respect to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. 9340, 72 FR 41144, July 26, 2007; 72 FR 54352, Sept. 25, 2007]




