# § 164.38   Automatic radar plotting aids (ARPA).

(a) The following definitions are used in this section—


*Bulk* means material in any quantity that is shipped, stored, or handled without benefit of package, label, mark or count and carried in integral or fixed independent tanks.


*Constructed* means a stage of construction where—


(1) The keel is laid;


(2) Construction identifiable with a specific ship begins; or


(3) Assembly of that ship has commenced comprising at least 50 tons or 1 percent of the estimated mass of all structural material, whichever is less. 


*Hazardous material* means—


(1) A flammable liquid as defined in 46 CFR 30.10-22 or a combustible liquid as defined in 46 CFR 30.10-15;


(2) A material listed in table 151.05 of 46 CFR 151.05, table 1 of 46 CFR 153, or table 4 of 46 CFR Part 154; or


(3) A liquid, liquefied gas, or compressed gas listed in 49 CFR 172.101.


*Self-propelled vessel* includes those combinations of pushing vessel and vessel being pushed ahead which are rigidly connected in a composite unit and are required by Rule 24(b) of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972 (72 COLREGS) (App. A to 33 CFR Part 81) to exhibit the lights prescribed in Rule 23 for a “Power Driven Vessel Underway”.


*Tank vessel* means a vessel that is constructed or adapted to carry; or carries, oil or hazardous materials in bulk as cargo or cargo residue.


(b) An Automatic Radar Plotting Aid (ARPA) that complies with the standard for such devices adopted by the International Maritime Organization in its “Operational Standards for Automatic Radar Plotting Aids” (Appendix A), and that has both audible and visual alarms, must be installed as follows:


(1) Each self-propelled vessel, except a public vessel, of 10,000 gross tons or more carrying oil or hazardous materials in bulk as cargo or in residue on the navigable waters of the United States, or which transfers oil or hazardous materials in any port or place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, must be equipped with an ARPA.


(2) Each tank vessel of 10,000 gross tons or more operating on the navigable waters of the United States must be equipped with an ARPA.


(3) Each self-propelled vessel of 15,000 gross tons or more that is not a tank vessel, and is not carrying oil or hazardous material in bulk as cargo or in residue operating on the navigable waters of the United States, and was constructed before September 1, 1984, must be equipped with an ARPA, except when it is operating on the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waters.


(4) Each vessel of 10,000 gross tons or more, except when operating on the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waters, constructed on or after September 1, 1984 must be equipped with an ARPA.


(c) [Reserved]


(d)(1) Each device required under paragraph (b) of this section must have a permanently affixed label containing:


(i) The name and address of the manufacturer; and


(ii) The following statement:


“This device was designed and manufactured to comply with the International Maritime Organization (IMO) ‘Performance Standards for Automatic Radar Plotting Aids (ARPA).’ ”


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [CGD 79-148, 45 FR 54039, Aug. 14, 1980; 45 FR 71800, Oct. 30, 1980, as amended by CGD 83-004, 49 FR 43467, Oct. 29, 1984; USCG-1998-3799, 63 FR 35532, June 30, 1998; USCG-2011-0257, 76 FR 31838, June 2, 2011]




