# § 890.1029   Deciding a contest after a fact-finding proceeding.

(a) *Findings shall be accepted.* The debarring official shall accept the presiding official's findings of fact, unless they are arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous. If the debarring official concludes that the factual findings are not acceptable, they may be remanded to the presiding official for additional proceedings in accordance with § 890.1028. 


(b) *Timeframe for final decision.* The debarring official shall issue a final written decision on a contest within 30 days after receiving the presiding official's findings. The debarring official may extend this decision period for good cause. 


(c) *Debarring official's final decision.* (1) The debarring official shall observe the evidentiary standards and burdens of proof stated in § 890.1024 in reaching a final decision. 


(2) In any case where a final decision is made to debar a provider, the debarring official has the discretion to set the period of debarment, subject to the factors identified in §§ 890.1016 through 1021. 


(3) The debarring official has the discretion to decide not to impose debarment in any case involving a permissive debarment authority. 


(d) *No further administrative proceedings.* No further administrative proceedings shall be conducted after the debarring official's final decision in a contest involving an additional fact-finding hearing. A provider adversely affected by the debarring official's final decision in a contested case may appeal under 5 U.S.C. 8902a(h)(2) to the appropriate U. S. district court. 




