# § 63.7824   What test methods and other procedures must I use to establish and demonstrate initial compliance with operating limits?

(a) For each capture system subject to an operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(1), you must certify that the system operated during the performance test at the site-specific operating limits established in your operation and maintenance plan using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Concurrent with all opacity observations, measure and record values for each of the operating limit parameters in your capture system operation and maintenance plan according to the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.7830(a).


(2) For any dampers that are manually set and remain at the same position at all times the capture system is operating, the damper position must be visually checked and recorded at the beginning and end of each opacity observation period segment.


(3) Review and record the monitoring data. Identify and explain any times the capture system operated outside the applicable operating limits.


(4) Certify in your performance test report that during all observation period segments, the capture system was operating at the values or settings established in your capture system operation and maintenance plan.


(b) For a venturi scrubber subject to operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.7790(b)(2), you must establish site-specific operating limits according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. You may establish the parametric monitoring limit during the initial performance test or during any other performance test run that meets the emission limit.


(1) Using the CPMS required in § 63.7830(c), measure and record the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate during each run of the particulate matter performance test. 


(2) Compute and record the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate value in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.


(c) You may change the operating limits for a capture system or venturi scrubber if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator of your request to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.


(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limitation in Table 1 to this subpart.


(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the applicable procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for a control device or capture system.


(d) For each sinter plant subject to the operating limit for the oil content of the sinter plant feedstock in § 63.7790(d)(1), you must demonstrate initial compliance according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) Sample the feedstock at least three times a day (once every 8 hours), composite the three samples each day, and analyze the composited samples using Method 9071B, “n-Hexane Extractable Material(HEM) for Sludge, Sediment, and Solid Samples,” (Revision 2, April 1998). Method 9071B is incorporated by reference (see § 63.14) and is published in EPA Publication SW-846 “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods.” Record the sampling date and time, oil content values, and sinter produced (tons/day).


(2) Continue the sampling and analysis procedure for 30 consecutive days.


(3) Each day, compute and record the 30-day rolling average using that day's value and the 29 previous daily values.


(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with the alternative operating limit for volatile organic compound emissions from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stream in § 63.7790(d)(2), follow the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section. You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source based on representative performance (*i.e.,* performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You shall not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(1) Determine the volatile organic compound emissions according to the following test methods:


(i) EPA Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.


(ii) EPA Method 2 or 2F in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.


(iii) EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) of voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981—Part 10 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.


(iv) EPA Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.


(v) EPA Method 25 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the mass concentration of volatile organic compound emissions (total gaseous nonmethane organics as carbon) from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stream stack.


(2) Determine volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions every 24 hours (from at least three samples taken at 8-hour intervals) using EPA Method 25 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. Record the sampling date and time, sampling results, and sinter produced (tons/day).


(3) Compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E_v_) each day using Equation 1 of this section as follows:


(4) Continue the sampling and analysis procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section for 30 consecutive days. 


(5) Compute and record the 30-day rolling average of VOC emissions for each operating day.


(f) You may use an alternative test method to determine the oil content of the sinter plant feedstock or the volatile organic compound emissions from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stack if you have already demonstrated the equivalency of the alternative method for a specific plant and have received previous approval from the applicable permitting authority.



---

[N] [68 FR 27663, May 20, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 39586, July 13, 2006; 85 FR 42118, July 13, 2020]






