# § 67.57   Extent of title evidence required for initial documentation.

(a) Vessels never registered under any system:


(1) Where a coastwise endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the owner for whom it was built is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99. Any other applicant must present title evidence in accordance with § 67.53(d).


(2) Where a fishery endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the owner for whom it was built is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99. Any other applicant must present title evidence in accordance with either paragraph (c) or (d) of § 67.53.


(3) Where a registry or recreational endorsement is sought, the only title evidence required for a vessel being documented by the first owner of the vessel is the certification of the builder (form CG-1261) described in § 67.99, or a Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin. Any other applicant must also present title evidence in accordance with either paragraph (c)(2) or (d)(2) of § 67.53.


(b) Vessels previously registered under the laws of a State or a foreign government:


(1) Where a coastwise endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with § 67.53(d).


(2) Where a fishery endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of § 67.53.


(3) Where a registry or recreational endorsement is sought, title evidence must be presented in accordance with paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of § 67.53.



---

[N] [CGD 89-007, CGD 89-007a, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, as amended by USCG-2009-0702, 74 FR 49230, Sept. 25, 2009]




