# § 842.402   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Full-time service* means service performed by an employee who has—


(1) An officially established recurring basic workweek consisting of 40 hours within the employee's administrative workweek (as established under § 610.111 of this chapter or similar authority);


(2) An officially established recurring basic work requirement of 80 hours per biweekly pay period (as established for employees with a flexible or compressed work schedule under 5 U.S.C. chapter 61, subchapter II, or similar authority);


(3) For a firefighter covered by 5 U.S.C. 5545b(b) who does not have a 40-hour basic workweek, a regular tour of duty averaging at least 106 hours per biweekly pay period; or


(4) A work schedule that is considered to be full-time by express provision of law, including a work schedule established for certain nurses under 38 U.S.C. 7456 or 7456A that is considered by law to be a full-time schedule for all purposes.


*Part-time service* means any actual service performed on a less than full-time basis, by an individual whose appointment describes a regularly scheduled tour of duty, and any period of time credited as nonpay status time under 5 U.S.C 8411(d), that follows a period of part-time service without any intervening period of actual service other than part-time service. 


*Proration factor* means a fraction expressed as a percentage rounded to the nearest percent. The numerator is the sum of the number of hours the employee actually worked during part-time service; and the denominator is the sum of the number of hours that a full-time employee would be scheduled to work during the same period of service included in the numerator. If an employee has creditable service in addition to part-time service, such service must be included in the numerator and denominator of the fraction. 


*Total service* means the full years and twelfth parts thereof of an employee's or Member's service creditable under subpart C of this part, excluding any fractional part of a month.



---

[N] [52 FR 4475, Feb. 11, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 22436, June 12, 1987; 58 FR 43493, Aug. 17, 1993; 79 FR 46632, Aug. 8, 2014]




