# ยง 231.302   Contents of notifications; certifications.

The notification required by ยง 231.301 shall be certified by the covered entity's chief executive officer, president, or equivalent corporate officer, and shall contain the following information about the parties and the transaction, which must be accurate and complete:


(a) The covered entity and any member of the affiliated group that is party to the transaction, including for each a primary point of contact, telephone number, and email address.


(b) The identity and location(s) of all other parties to the transaction.


(c) Information, including organizational chart(s), on the ownership structure of parties to the transactions.


(d) A description of any other significant foreign involvement, *e.g.,* through financing, in the transaction.


(e) The name(s) and location(s) of any entity in a foreign country of concern where or at which semiconductor manufacturing capacity may be materially expanded by the transaction.


(f) A description of the transaction, including the specific types of semiconductors currently produced at the facility planned for expansion, the current production technology node (or equivalent information) and semiconductor manufacturing capacity, as well as the specific types of semiconductors planned for manufacture, the planned production technology node, and planned semiconductor manufacturing capacity.


(g) If the covered entity asserts that the transaction involves the material expansion of semiconductor manufacturing capacity that produces legacy semiconductors that will predominately serve the market of a foreign country of concern, documentation as to where the final products incorporating the legacy semiconductors are to be used or consumed, including the percent of semiconductor manufacturing capacity or percent of sales revenue that will be accounted for by use or consumption of the final goods in the foreign country of concern.


(h) If applicable, an explanation of how the transaction meets the requirements, set forth in 15 U.S.C. 4652(a)(6)(C)(ii), for an exception to the prohibition on significant transactions that involve the material expansion of semiconductor manufacturing capacity, including details on the calculations for semiconductor manufacturing capacity and/or sales revenue by the market in which the final goods will be consumed.






