# ยง 206.46   Appeals.

(a) *Denial of declaration request.* When a request for a major disaster declaration or for any emergency declaration is denied, the Governor may appeal the decision. An appeal must be made within 30 days after the date of the letter denying the request. This one-time request for reconsideration, along with appropriate additional information, is submitted to the President through the appropriate Regional Administrator. The processing of this request is similar to the initial request.


(b) *Denial of types of assistance or areas.* In those instances when the type of assistance or certain areas requested by the Governor are not designated or authorized, the Governor, or the GAR, may appeal the decision. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 30 days of the date of the letter denying the request. This one-time request for reconsideration, along with justification and/or additional information, is sent to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directoratethrough the appropriate Regional Administrator.


(c) *Denial of advance of non-Federal share.* In those instances where the Governor's request for an advance is denied, the Governor may appeal the decision. An appeal must be submitted in writing within 30 days of the date of the letter denying the request. This one-time request for reconsideration, along with justification and/or additional information, is sent to the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directoratethrough the appropriate Regional Administrator.


(d) *Extension of time to appeal.* The 30-day period referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section may be extended by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate provided that a written request for such an extension, citing reasons for the delay, is made during this 30-day period, and if the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate agrees that there is a legitimate basis for extension of the 30-day period. Only the Governor may request a time extension for appeals covered in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section. The Governor, or the GAR if one has been named, may submit the time extension request for appeals covered in paragraph (b) of this section.




