# ยง 31.212   Personal conflicts of interest.

(a) *Retained entity's responsibility.* A retained entity shall ensure that all key individuals have no personal conflicts of interest (including a situation that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the individual's ability to perform, his or her objectivity or judgment in such performance, or his or her ability to represent the interests of the Treasury), unless mitigation measures have neutralized the conflict, or Treasury has waived the conflict.


(b) *Information required.* Before key individuals begin work under an arrangement, a retained entity shall obtain information from each of them in writing about their personal, business, and financial relationships, as well as those of their spouses and dependent children that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the individual's ability to perform, his or her objectivity or judgment in such performance, or his or her ability to represent the interests of the Treasury. When the arrangement concerns the acquisition, valuation, management, or disposition of troubled assets, the information shall be no less extensive than that required of certain new federal employees under Office of Government Ethics Form 450. Treasury may extend the time necessary to meet these requirements in urgent and compelling circumstances.


(c) *Disqualification.* The retained entity shall disqualify key individuals with personal conflicts of interest from performing work pursuant to the arrangement unless mitigation measures have neutralized the conflict to the satisfaction of the TARP Chief Compliance Officer. The retained entity may seek a waiver from the TARP Chief Compliance Officer to allow a key individual with a personal conflict of interest to work under the arrangement.


(d) *Initial certification.* No later than ten business days after the effective date of the arrangement, the retained entity shall certify to the Treasury that all key individuals performing services under the arrangement have no personal conflicts of interest, or are subject to a mitigation plan or waiver approved by Treasury. In making this certification, the retained entity may rely on the information obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, unless the retained entity knows or should have known that the information provided is false or inaccurate. Treasury may extend the time necessary to meet these requirements where the retained entity has a large number of key individuals, or in other appropriate circumstances.


(e) *Periodic certification.* No later than one year after the arrangement's effective date, and at least annually thereafter, the retained entity shall renew the certification required by paragraph (d) of this section. The retained entity shall provide more frequent certifications to Treasury when requested.


(f) *Retained entities' responsibilities.* The retained entity shall adopt and implement procedures designed to search for, report, and mitigate personal conflicts of interest on a continuous basis.


(g) *Subsequent notification.* Within five business days after learning of a personal conflict of interest, the retained entity shall notify Treasury of the conflict and describe the steps it has taken and will take in the future to neutralize the conflict.


(h) *Retention of information.* A retained entity shall retain the information needed to comply with this section and to support the certifications required by this section for three years following termination or expiration of the arrangement, and shall make that information available to Treasury upon request.




