# § 60.670a   What are my requirements for closed vent systems?

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, you must inspect each closed vent system according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section unless the closed vent system is operated and maintained under negative pressure;


(2) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section unless the closed vent system is operated and maintained under negative pressure; and


(3) Conduct annual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.


(b) You must inspect each closed vent system according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Inspections must be conducted in accordance with Method 21 of appendix A of this part.


(2)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of appendix A of this part, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 must be for the average composition of the process fluid not each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inerts which are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, the average stream response factor must be calculated on an inert-free basis.


(ii) If no instrument is available at the plant site that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i).


(3) The detection instrument must be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A of this part.


(4) Calibration gases must be as follows:


(i) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million hydrocarbon in air); and


(ii) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration less than 2,000 parts per million. A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.


(5) You may elect to adjust or not adjust instrument readings for background. If you elect to not adjust readings for background, all such instrument readings must be compared directly to the applicable leak definition to determine whether there is a leak.


(6) If you elect to adjust instrument readings for background, you must determine the background concentration using Method 21 of appendix A of this part. After monitoring each potential leak interface, subtract the background reading from the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument. The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level must be compared with 500 parts per million for determining compliance.


(c) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million above background or by visual, audio, or olfactory inspections, must be repaired as soon as practicable, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) A first attempt at repair must be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.


(2) Repair must be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.


(d) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown, as defined in § 60.2, or if you determine that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment must be complete by the end of the next shutdown.


(e) For each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, you must comply with the provisions of either paragraph (e)(1) or (2), except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that determines whether vent stream flow is present at least once every 15 minutes. You must keep hourly records of whether the flow indicator was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times and durations of all periods when the vent stream is diverted to the atmosphere or the flow indicator is not operating. The flow indicator must be installed at the entrance to any bypass line; or


(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism must be performed at least once every month to ensure the valve is maintained in the closed position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.


(3) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (e) of this section.


(f) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section if:


(1) You determine that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; and


(2) You have a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.


(g) Any parts of the closed vent system are designated, as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section if:


(1) You determine that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and


(2) You have a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.


(h) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.


(2) Identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect, an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.


(3) For each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, you must keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (h)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section in addition to the information specified in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section.


(i) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under paragraph (e)(1) of this section was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.


(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with paragraph (e)(2) of this section, hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, you must record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done, and you must record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.


(iii) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section, you must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements in this subpart, you must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of VOC in the gas and the resulting emissions of VOC that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(4) For each inspection during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section.


(i) The instrument identification numbers; operator name or initials; and identification of the equipment.


(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak.


(iii) Maximum instrument reading measured by the method specified in paragraph (c) of this section after the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.


(iv) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.


(v) The name, initials, or other form of identification of the owner or operator (or designee) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a shutdown.


(vi) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.


(vii) Dates of shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.


(viii) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(5) For each inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.


(6) For each inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.


(i) The semiannual report specified in § 60.665a(j)(5) must include the items specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Reports of the times of all periods recorded under paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. Include the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each period.


(2) Reports of all periods recorded under paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out. Include the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each period.


(3) For bypass lines subject to the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section, the semiannual reports must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of VOC in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of VOC in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.





