# § 131.127   Nonfat dry milk fortified with vitamins A and D.

(a) *Description.* Nonfat dry milk fortified with vitamins A and D conforms to the standard of identity for nonfat dry milk, except that vitamins A and D are added as prescribed by paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Vitamin addition.* (1) Vitamin A is added in such quantity that, when prepared according to label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product contains 2000 International Units thereof.


(2) Vitamin D is added in such quantity that, when prepared according to label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product contains 400 International Units thereof.


(3) The requirements of this paragraph will be deemed to have been met if reasonable overages, within limits of good manufacturing practice, are present to ensure that the required levels of vitamins are maintained throughout the expected shelf life of the food under customary conditions of distribution.


(c) *Optional ingredients.* The following safe and suitable optional ingredients may be used:


(1) Carriers for vitamins A and D.


(2) Characterizing flavoring ingredients, with or without coloring and nutritive carbohydrate sweetener, as follows:


(i) Fruit and fruit juice, including concentrated fruit and fruit juice.


(ii) Natural and artificial food flavorings.


(d) *Methods of analysis.* The following referenced methods of analysis are from “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies may be obtained from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or may be examined at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Milkfat content—“Fat in Dried Milk—Official Final Action,” sections 16.199-16.200.


(2) Moisture content—“Moisture—Official Final Action,” section 16.192.


(3) Vitamin D content—“Vitamin D—Official Final Action,” sections 43.195-43.208.


(e) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “Nonfat dry milk fortified with vitamins A and D”. If the fat content is over 1
1/2 percent by weight, the name of the food on the principal display panel or panels shall be accompanied by the statement “Contains __% milkfat”, the blank to be filled in to the nearest one-tenth of 1 percent with the percentage of fat contained within limits of good manufacturing practice. The name of the food shall include a declaration of the presence of any characterizing flavoring, as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter.


(f) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [42 FR 14360, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 19836, May 9, 1978; 43 FR 29769, July 11, 1978; 43 FR 36622, Aug. 18, 1978; 47 FR 11823, Mar. 19, 1982; 49 FR 10091, Mar. 19, 1984; 54 FR 24892, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2890, Jan. 6, 1993]




