# ยง 1261.108   Recovery from carriers, insurers, and other third parties.

(a) *General.* NASA is not an insurer and does not underwrite all personal property losses that an employee may sustain. Employees are encouraged to carry private insurance to the maximum extent practicable to avoid large losses or losses which may not be recoverable from NASA. The procedures set forth in this section are designed to enable the claimant to obtain the maximum amount of compensation for personal property loss or damage. Failure of the claimant to comply with these procedures may reduce or preclude payment of the claim.


(b) *Demand on carrier, contractor, warehouse owner/operator, or insurer.* When it appears that property has been damaged or lost under circumstances in which a carrier, warehouse owner/operator, contractor or insurer may be responsible, the claimant shall make a written demand on such party, either before or after submitting a claim against NASA. The Administrator or designee, if requested, will assist in making demand on the third party. No such demand need be made if, in the opinion of the Administrator or designee, it would be impracticable or any recovery would be insignificant, or if circumstances preclude the claimant from making timely demand.


(c) *Action subsequent to demand.* A copy of the demand and of any related correspondence shall be submitted to the Administrator or designee. If the carrier, insurer, or other third party offers a settlement which is less than the amount of the demand, the claimant shall consult with the Administrator or designee before accepting the amount offered. The claimant shall also notify the Administrator or designee promptly of any other action by a third party, including settlement, partial settlement, or denial of liability.


(d) *Application of recovery.* When the amount recovered from a carrier, insurer, or other third party is greater than or equal to the claimant's total loss as determined under this subpart, no compensation is allowable under this subpart. When the amount recovered is less than such total loss, the allowable amount is determined by deducting the recovery from the amount of total loss subject to the maximum set forth in ยง 1261.102.


(e) *Transfer of rights.* The claimant shall assign to the United States, to the extent of any payment accepted on a claim, all rights, title, and interest in any claim he/she may have against any carrier, insurer, or other party arising out of the accident or incident on which the claim against the United States is based. The claimant shall also, upon request, furnish such evidence and other cooperation as may be required to enable the United States to enforce the claim. After payment on the claim by the United States, the claimant shall, upon receipt of any payment from a carrier, insurer, or other party, notify the Administrator or designee and pay the proceeds to the United States to the extent required under the provisions of paragraph (d).




