# § 810.1602   Definition of other terms.

(a) *Classes.* There are two classes for soybeans: Yellow soybeans and Mixed soybeans.


(1) *Yellow soybeans.* Soybeans that have yellow or green seed coats and which, in cross section, are yellow or have a yellow tinge, and may include not more than 10.0 percent of soybeans of other colors. Soybeans of other colors are soybeans that have black or bicolored seedcoats, as well as soybeans that have green seedcoats and are green in cross section. Bicolored soybeans will have seed coats of two colors, one of which is brown or black, and the brown or black color covers 50 percent of the seed coats. The hilum of a soybean is not considered a part of the seed coat for this determination.


(2) *Mixed soybeans.* Soybeans that do not meet the requirements of the class Yellow soybeans.


(b) *Damaged kernels.* Soybeans and pieces of soybeans that are badly ground-damaged, badly weather-damaged, diseased, frost-damaged, germ-damaged, heat-damaged, insect-bored, mold-damaged, sprout-damaged, stinkbug-stung, or otherwise materially damaged. Stinkbug-stung kernels are considered damaged kernels at the rate of one-fourth of the actual percentage of the stung kernels.


(c) *Foreign material.* All matter that passes through an 
8/64 round-hole sieve and all matter other than soybeans remaining in the sieved sample after sieving according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions.


(d) *Heat-damaged kernels.* Soybeans and pieces of soybeans that are materially discolored and damaged by heat.


(e) *Purple mottled or stained.* Soybeans that are discolored by the growth of a fungus; or by dirt; or by a dirt-like substance(s) including nontoxic inoculants; or by other nontoxic substances.


(f) *Sieve—
* A metal sieve 0.032 inch thick perforated with round holes 0.125 (
8/64) inch in diameter.


(g) *Splits.* Soybeans with more than 
1/4 of the bean removed and that are not damaged.



---

[N] [52 FR 24418, June 30, 1987, as amended at 88 FR 45056, July 14, 2023]




