# ยง 404.104   Ratemaking step 4: Determine target pilot compensation benchmark and apprentice pilot wage benchmark.

(a) In a full ratemaking year, the Director determines base individual target pilot compensation using a compensation benchmark, set after considering the most relevant currently available non-proprietary information. For supportable circumstances, the Director may make necessary and reasonable adjustments to the benchmark.






(b) In an interim year, the Director adjusts the previous year's individual target pilot compensation level by the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Employment Cost Index for the Transportation and Materials sector, or if that is unavailable, the Director adjusts the previous year's individual target pilot compensation level using a two-step process:


(1) First, the Director adjusts the previous year's individual target pilot compensation by the difference between the previous year's Bureau of Labor Statistics' Employment Cost Index for the Transportation and Materials sector and the Federal Open Market Committee median economic projections for Personal Consumption Expenditures inflation value used to inflate the previous year's target pilot compensation.


(2) Second, the Director then adjusts that value by the Federal Open Market Committee median economic projections for Personal Consumption Expenditures inflation for the upcoming year.








(c) The Director determines each pilotage association's total target pilot compensation by multiplying individual target pilot compensation computed in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section by the number of pilots projected under ยง 404.103 or ยง 401.220(a) of this chapter, whichever is lower.




(d) The Director determines the individual Apprentice Pilot wage benchmark at the rate of 36 percent of the individual target pilot compensation, as calculated according to paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section.




(e) The Director determines each pilot association's total Apprentice Pilot wage benchmark by multiplying the Apprentice Pilot compensation computed in paragraph (d) of this section by the number of Apprentice Pilots and Apprentice Pilots with Limited Registrations projected under ยง 404.103(b).







---

[N] [USCG-2017-0903, 83 FR 26193, June 5, 2018, as amended by USCG-2018-0665, 84 FR 20578, May 10, 2019; USCG-2020-0457, 86 FR 14220, Mar. 12, 2021; USCG-2021-0431, 87 FR 18525, Mar. 30, 2022]




