# ยง 60.391   Definitions.

(a) All terms used in this subpart that are not defined below have the meaning given to them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.


*Applied coating solids* means the volume of dried or cured coating solids which is deposited and remains on the surface of the automobile or light-duty truck body.


*Automobile* means a motor vehicle capable of carrying no more than 12 passengers.


*Automobile and light-duty truck body* means the exterior surface of an automobile or light-duty truck including hoods, fenders, cargo boxes, doors, and grill opening panels.


*Bake oven* means a device that uses heat to dry or cure coatings.


*Electrodeposition (EDP)* means a method of applying a prime coat by which the automobile or light-duty truck body is submerged in a tank filled with coating material and an electrical field is used to effect the deposition of the coating material on the body.


*Electrostatic spray application* means a spray application method that uses an electrical potential to increase the transfer efficiency of the coating solids. Electrostatic spray application can be used for prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operations.




*Flash-off area* means the structure on automobile and light-duty truck assembly lines between the coating application system (dip tank or spray booth) and the bake oven. *Flash-off area* also means the structure between spray booths in a wet-on-wet coating process in which some of the solvent evaporates before the next spray booth; the flash off area may be ambient temperature or heated to accelerate evaporation.








*Guide coat operation* means the guide coat spray booth, flash-off area and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure a surface coating between the prime coat and topcoat operation on the components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.


*Light-duty truck* means any motor vehicle rated at 3,850 kilograms gross vehicle weight or less, designed mainly to transport property.


*Plastic body* means an automobile or light-duty truck body constructed of synthetic organic material.


*Plastic body component* means any component of an automobile or light-duty truck exterior surface constructed of synthetic organic material.


*Prime coat operation* means the prime coat spray booth or dip tank, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the initial coating on components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.


*Purge* or *line purge* means the coating material expelled from the spray system when clearing it.


*Solids Turnover Ratio (R*_T_) means the ratio of total volume of coating solids that is added to the EDP system in a calendar month divided by the total volume design capacity of the EDP system. 


*Solvent-borne* means a coating which contains five percent or less water by weight in its volatile fraction.


*Spray application* means a method of applying coatings by atomizing the coating material and directing the atomized material toward the part to be coated. Spray applications can be used for prime coat, guide coat, and topcoat operations.


*Spray booth* means a structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat is applied to components of automobile or light-duty truck bodies.


*Surface coating operation* means any prime coat, guide coat, or topcoat operation on an automobile or light-duty truck surface coating line.


*Topcoat operation* means the topcoat spray booth, flash-off area, and bake oven(s) which are used to apply and dry or cure the final coating(s) on components of automobile and light-duty truck bodies.


*Transfer efficiency* means the ratio of the amount of coating solids transferred onto the surface of a part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.


*VOC content* means all volatile organic compounds that are in a coating expressed as kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.


*Volume Design Capacity of EDP System (LE)* means the total liquid volume that is contained in the EDP system (tank, pumps, recirculating lines, filters, etc.) at its designed liquid operating level. 


*Waterborne* or *water reducible* means a coating which contains more than five weight percent water in its volatile fraction.


(b) The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meanings:



---

[N] [45 FR 85415, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 51386, Oct. 11, 1994; 65 FR 61760, Oct. 17, 2000; 88 FR 30000, May 9, 2023]




