# § 190.42   Procedures and supporting documentation.

(a) *Time limit for exportation or destruction.* Drawback will be denied on merchandise that is exported or destroyed after the statutory 5-year time period.


(b) *Required documentation.* The claimant must submit documentation to CBP as part of the complete drawback claim (*see* § 190.51) to establish that the merchandise did not conform to sample or specification, was shipped without the consent of the consignee, or was defective as of the time of importation (*see* § 190.45 for additional requirements for claims made on rejected retail merchandise under 19 U.S.C. 1313(c)(1)(C)(ii)). If the claimant was not the importer, the claimant must also:


(1) Submit a statement signed by the importer and every other person, other than the ultimate purchaser, that owned the goods, that no other claim for drawback was made on the goods by any other person; and


(2) Certify that records are available to support the statement required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Notice.* A notice of intent to export or destroy merchandise which may be the subject of a rejected merchandise drawback claim (19 U.S.C. 1313(c)) must be provided to CBP to give CBP the opportunity to examine the merchandise. The claimant, or the exporter (for destruction under CBP supervision, see § 190.71), must file at the port of intended redelivery to CBP custody a Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback on CBP Form 7553 at least 5 working days prior to the date of intended return to CBP custody, unless the claimant has been granted a waiver of prior notice (*see* § 190.91) or complies with the procedures for 1-time waiver in § 190.36.


(d) *Required information.* The notice must provide the bill of lading number, if known, the name and telephone number, mailing address, and, if available, fax number and email address of a contact person, and the location of the merchandise.


(e) *Decision to waive examination.* Within 2 working days after receipt of the Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback (*see* paragraph (c) of this section), CBP will notify, in writing, the party designated on the Notice of CBP's decision to either examine the merchandise to be exported or destroyed, or to waive examination. If CBP timely notifies the designated party, in writing, of its decision to examine the merchandise (*see* paragraph (f) of this section), but the merchandise is exported or destroyed without having been presented to CBP for such examination, any drawback claim, or part thereof, based on the Notice of Intent to Export, Destroy, or Return Merchandise for Purposes of Drawback, must be denied. If CBP notifies the designated party, in writing, of its decision to waive examination of the merchandise, or, if timely notification of a decision by CBP to examine or to waive examination is absent, the merchandise may be exported or destroyed without delay and will be deemed to have been returned to CBP custody.


(f) *Time and place of examination.* If CBP gives timely notice of its decision to examine the merchandise to be exported or destroyed, the merchandise to be examined must be promptly presented to CBP. CBP must examine the merchandise within 5 working days after presentation of the merchandise. The merchandise may be exported or destroyed without examination if CBP fails to timely examine the merchandise after presentation to CBP, and in such case the merchandise will be deemed to have been returned to CBP custody. If the examination is to be completed at a port other than the port of actual exportation or destruction, the merchandise must be transported in-bond to the port of exportation or destruction.


(g) *Extent of examination.* The appropriate CBP office may permit release of merchandise without examination, or may examine, to the extent determined to be necessary, the items exported or destroyed.


(h) *Drawback claim.* When filing the drawback claim, the drawback claimant must correctly calculate the amount of drawback due (*see* § 190.51(b)). The procedures for restructuring a claim (*see* § 190.53) apply to rejected merchandise drawback if the claimant has an ongoing export program which qualifies for this type of drawback.


(i) *Exportation.* Claimants must provide documentary evidence of exportation (*see* subpart G of this part). The claimant may establish exportation by mail as set out in § 190.74.




