# ยง 3565.455   Alternative disposition methods.

The Agency, in its sole discretion, may choose to obtain an assignment of the loan from the lender or conveyance of title obtained by the lender through foreclosure or a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.


(a) *Assignment.* In the case of an assignment of the loan, the assignment of the security instruments or the security must be in written and recordable form. Completion of the assignment will occur once the following transactions are completed to the Agency's satisfaction.


(1) Conveyance to the Agency of all the lender's rights and interests arising under the loan.


(2) Assignment to the Agency of all claims against the borrower or others arising out of the loan transactions, including:


(i) All collateral agreements affecting financing, construction, use or operation of the property; and


(ii) All insurance or surety bonds, or other guarantees, and all claims under them.


(3) Certification that the collateral has been evaluated for the presence of contamination from the release of hazardous substances, petroleum products or other environmental hazards which may adversely impact the market value of the property and the results of that evaluation.


(b) *Conveyance of title.* In the case of a conveyance of title to the property, the lender must inform the Agency in advance of how it plans to acquire title and a timetable for doing so. The Agency will accept the conveyance upon receipt of an assignment to the Agency of all claims of the lender against the property and assignment of the lender's rights to any operating funds and any reserves or escrows established for the maintenance of the property or the payment of property taxes and insurance.




