# § 990.145   Dwelling units with approved vacancies.

(a) A PHA is eligible to receive operating subsidy for vacant public housing units for each unit month the units are under an ACC and meet one of the following HUD-approved vacancies:


(1) *Units undergoing modernization.* Vacancies resulting from project modernization or unit modernization (such as work necessary to reoccupy vacant units) provided that one of the following conditions is met:


(i) The unit is undergoing modernization (*i.e.*, the modernization contract has been awarded or force account work has started) and must be vacant to perform the work, and the construction is on schedule according to a HUD-approved PHA Annual Plan; or


(ii) The unit must be vacant to perform the work and the treatment of the vacant unit is included in a HUD-approved PHA Annual Plan, but the time period for placing the vacant unit under construction has not yet expired. The PHA shall place the vacant unit under construction within two federal fiscal years (FFYs) after the FFY in which the capital funds are approved.


(2) *Special use units.* Units approved and used for resident services, resident organization offices, and related activities, such as self-sufficiency and anti-crime initiatives.


(b) On a project-by-project basis, subject to prior HUD approval and for the time period agreed to by HUD, a PHA shall receive operating subsidy for the units affected by the following events that are outside the control of the PHA:


(1) *Litigation.* Units that are vacant due to litigation, such as a court order or settlement agreement that is legally enforceable; units that are vacant in order to meet regulatory and statutory requirements to avoid potential litigation (as covered in a HUD-approved PHA Annual Plan); and units under voluntary compliance agreements with HUD or other voluntary compliance agreements acceptable to HUD (*e.g.*, units that are being held vacant as part of a court-order, HUD-approved desegregation plan, or voluntary compliance agreement requiring modifications to the units to make them accessible pursuant to 24 CFR part 8).


(2) *Disasters.* Units that are vacant due to a federally declared, state-declared, or other declared disaster.


(3) *Casualty losses.* Damaged units that remain vacant due to delays in settling insurance claims.


(c) A PHA may appeal to HUD to receive operating subsidy for units that are vacant due to changing market conditions (see subpart G of this part—Appeals).




