# § 721.11236   Heteromonocycle, homopolymer, alkyl substituted carbamate, alkyl ester (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as heteromonocycle, homopolymer, alkyl substituted carbamate, alkyl ester (PMN P-17-373 chemical A and P-17-373 chemical B) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (2)(i), (3) through (5) and (6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), (b) (concentration set at 0.1%) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 50.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (vii) and (ix) ((sensitization), (systemic effects)), (2)(i) through (iii) and (v), and (5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substances unless the number average molecular weight is greater than or equal to 1000 Daltons. It is a significant new use to use the substances other than as an ultraviolet curable coating resin.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 66604, Dec. 5, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 10617, Feb. 25, 2020]




