# § 63.1294   Standards for slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production—diisocyanate emissions.

Each new and existing slabstock affected source shall comply with the provisions of this section.


(a) *Diisocyanate storage vessels.* Diisocyanate storage vessels shall be equipped with either a system meeting the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or a carbon adsorption system meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) The storage vessel shall be equipped with a vapor return line from the storage vessel to the tank truck or rail car that is connected during unloading.


(i) During each unloading event, the vapor return line shall be inspected for leaks by visual, audible, or an instrumental detection method.


(ii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than the subsequent unloading event.


(2) The storage vessel shall be equipped with a carbon adsorption system, meeting the monitoring requirements of § 63.1303(a), that routes displaced vapors through activated carbon before being discharged to the atmosphere. The owner or operator shall replace the existing carbon with fresh carbon upon indication of breakthrough before the next unloading event.


(b) *Transfer pumps in diisocyanate service.* Each transfer pump in diisocyanate service shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) The pump shall be a sealless pump; or


(2) The pump shall be a submerged pump system meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The pump shall be completely immersed in bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP, CAS #118-81-7), 2(methyloctyl)phthalate (DINP, CAS #68515-48-0), or another neutral oil.


(ii) The pump shall be visually monitored weekly to detect leaks,


(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(A) The leak shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected.


(B) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:


(*1*) Tightening of packing gland nuts.


(*2*) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.


(c) *Other components in diisocyanate service.* If evidence of a leak is found by visual, audible, or an instrumental detection method, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.


(d) *Delay of repair.* (1) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed for equipment that is isolated from the process and that does not remain in diisocyanate service.


(2) Delay of repair for valves and connectors is also allowed if:


(i) The owner or operator determines that diisocyanate emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and


(ii) The purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device when repair procedures are effected, and


(iii) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.


(3) Delay of repair for pumps is also allowed if repair requires replacing the existing seal design with a sealless pump, and repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.



---

[N] [63 FR 53996, Oct. 7, 1998, as amended at 79 FR 48087, Aug. 15, 2014]




