# § 165.521   Safety Zone[s] Hurricanes, Tropical Storms, and other Storms with High Winds; Captain of the Port Zone Maryland-National Capital Region.

(a) *Regulated Areas:* The following area is a safety zone: All navigable waters, as defined in 33 CFR 2.36 within the Captain of the Port Zone (COTP) Maryland-National Capital Region, as described in 33 CFR 3.25-15, or some portion of those waters, during specified conditions. Port conditions and safety zone activation may vary for different portions of the regulated area at different times, based on storm conditions and its projected track.


(b) *Definitions. As used in this section*—


*Captain of the Port* means Commander, Coast Guard Sector Maryland National Capital Region.


*Representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer or civilian employee who has been authorized to act on the behalf of the Captain of the Port.


*Port Condition WHISKEY* means a condition set by the COTP when National Weather Service (NWS) weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 72 hours.


*Port Condition X-RAY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 48 hours.


*Port Condition YANKEE* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 24 hours.


*Port Condition ZULU* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are predicted to reach the COTP zone within 12 hours.


*Port Condition RECOVERY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) are no longer predicted for the regulated area. This port condition remains in effect until the regulated areas are deemed safe and are reopened to normal operations.


(c) *Regulations:*

(1) *Port Condition WHISKEY.* All vessels must exercise due diligence in preparation for potential storm impacts. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 gross tons (GT) must make plans to depart no later than setting of Port Condition Yankee unless authorized by the COTP. Also, vessels must maintain a continuous listening watch on VHF Channel 16. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition WHISKEY, based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(2) *Port Condition X-RAY.* Vessels at facilities must carefully monitor their moorings and cargo operations. Additional anchor(s) must be made ready to let go, and preparations must be made to have a continuous anchor watch during the storm. Engine(s) must be made immediately available for maneuvering. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 GT must prepare to depart the port and anchorages within the affected regulated area. These vessels shall depart immediately upon the setting of Port Condition YANKEE. During this condition, slow-moving vessels may be ordered to depart to ensure safe avoidance of the incoming storm. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 GT that are unable to depart or desire to remain in port must contact the COTP to receive permission to remain in port. Vessels with COTP's permission to remain in port must implement their pre-approved mooring arrangement. The COTP may require additional precautions to ensure the safety of the ports and waterways. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition X-RAY based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(3) *Port Condition YANKEE.* Affected ports and waterways are closed to all inbound vessel traffic. All oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs and all self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 GT must have departed the regulated area or received permission to remain in port. The COTP may require additional precautions to ensure the safety of the ports and waterways. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition YANKEE based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(4) *Port Condition ZULU.* Cargo operations are suspended, except final preparations that are expressly permitted by the COTP as necessary to ensure the safety of the ports and facilities. Other than vessels designated by the COTP, no vessels may enter, transit, move, or anchor within the regulated area. The COTP may modify the geographic boundaries of the regulated area and actions to be taken under Port Condition ZULU based on the trajectory and forecasted storm conditions.


(5) *Port Condition RECOVERY.* Designated areas are closed to all vessels. Based on assessments of channel conditions, navigability concerns, and hazards to navigation, the COTP may permit vessel movements with restrictions. Restrictions may include, but are not limited to, preventing, or delaying vessel movements, imposing draft, speed, size, horsepower, daylight restrictions, or directing the use of specific routes. Vessels permitted to transit the regulated area shall comply with the lawful orders or directions given by the COTP or representative.


(6) *Notification.* The Coast Guard will provide notice of where, within the regulated area, a declared Port Condition is to be in effect, via Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Bulletins, or by on-scene representatives.


(7) *Exception.* This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0834, 89 FR 19734, Mar. 20, 2024]




