# § 294.102   General definitions.

All of the terms defined in the Freedom of Information Act, and the definitions included in the “Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines” issued by the Office of Management and Budget apply, regardless of whether they are defined in this subpart. 


*Direct costs* means the expenditures that an agency actually incurs in searching for, duplicating, and reviewing documents to respond to an FOIA request. Overhead expenses (such as the cost of space, and heating or lighting the facility in which the records are stored), are not included in direct costs. 


*Disclose or disclosure* means making records available, on request, for examination and copying, or furnishing a copy of records. 


*Duplication* means the process of making a copy of a document necessary to respond to an FOIA request. Among the forms that such copies can take are paper, microform, audiovisual materials, or machine readable documentation (e.g., magnetic tape or disk). 


*Records, information, document,* and *material* have the same meaning as the term *agency records* in section 552 of title 5, United States Code. 


*Review* means the process of initially examining documents located in response to a request to determine whether any portion of any document located may be withheld. It also includes processing documents for disclosure; e.g., doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal and policy issues regarding the application of exemptions. 


*Search* means the time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. 



---

[N] [54 FR 25094, June 13, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 32043, June 8, 1993]




