# § 721.10844   Graphene nanoplatelets having a predominant thickness of 1-10 layers with lateral dimension predominantly less than 2 microns.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as graphene nanoplatelets having a predominant thickness of 1-10 layers with lateral dimension predominantly less than 2 microns (PMN P-14-763) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have been embedded or incorporated into a polymer matrix that itself has been reacted (cured); embedded in a permanent solid polymer form that is not intended to undergo further processing, except mechanical processing; or imported into an article as defined at 40 CFR 720.3.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with an N-100, P-100, or R-100 cartridge.


(B) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying particulate respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50.


(ii) Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities. Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k), (q), and (y)(1).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 32016, June 5, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 102798, Dec. 18, 2024]




