# § 171.305   Requirements for Federal agency certification plans.

(a) A Federal agency may certify applicators of restricted use pesticides only in accordance with a Federal agency certification plan approved by the Agency. Certification must be limited to the employees of the Federal agency covered by the certification plan and will be valid only for those uses of restricted use pesticides conducted in the performance of the employees' official duties.


(1) The Federal agency certification plan must include a full description of the proposed process the Federal agency will use to assess applicator competency to use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides.


(2) Employees certified by the Federal agency must meet the standards for commercial applicators.


(3) The Federal agency certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification from the certification categories listed in § 171.101 that will be included in the plan except that:


(i) A Federal agency certification plan may omit any unneeded certification categories.


(ii) A Federal agency certification plan may designate subcategories within the categories described in § 171.101 as it deems necessary.


(iii) A Federal agency certification plan may include additional certification categories not covered by the existing Federal categories described in § 171.101.


(iv) A Federal agency certification plan may combine the categories described in § 171.101(m) through (n) into a single general fumigation category for commercial applicators.


(4) For each of the categories adopted pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Federal agency plan must include standards for the certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides that meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103, except as provided at paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(5) A Federal agency may adopt a limited use category for commercial applicators. A limited use category covers a small number of applicators engaged in a use that does not clearly fit within any of the categories in § 171.101, and allows only the use of a limited set of restricted use pesticides by specific application methods. A Federal agency adopting a limited use category must include all of the following in its certification plan:


(i) A definition of the limited use category, specifying the restricted use pesticide(s), use sites, and specific application methods permitted.


(ii) An explanation of why it is not practical to include the limited use category in any of the categories in § 171.101.


(iii) A requirement that candidates for certification in a limited use category pass the written examination covering the core standards at § 171.103(c) and demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticide(s) covered by the limited use category.


(iv) Specific competency standards for the limited use category.


(v) The process by which applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides covered by the limited use category based on the competency standards identified in paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section. This does not have to be accomplished by a written examination.


(vi) A description of the recertification standards for the limited use category and how those standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.


(vii) A description of the limited use certification credential. The credential must clearly state that the applicator is only authorized to purchase and use the specific restricted use pesticide(s) identified in that credential.


(6) The Federal agency standards for certification examinations must meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2), including a description of any alternative identification that the Federal agency will authorize in addition to a valid, government-issued photo identification.


(7) The Federal agency standards for the recertification of applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107.


(8) The Federal agency standards for the direct supervision of noncertified applicators by certified private and commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides must meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.


(9) The Federal agency certification plan must describe the credentials or documents the Federal agency will issue to each certified applicator verifying certification of applicators.


(10) A Federal agency may waive any or all of the procedures specified in § 171.103, § 171.105, and § 171.107 of this part when certifying applicators in reliance on valid current certifications issued by another State, Tribal, or Federal agency under an EPA-approved certification plan. The Federal agency certification plan must explain whether, and if so, under what circumstances, the Federal agency will certify applicators based in whole or in part on their holding a valid current certification issued by another State, Tribe or Federal agency. Such certifications are subject to all of the conditions listed at § 171.303(a)(9).


(b) *Contents of an application for EPA approval of a Federal agency plan for certification of applicators of restricted use pesticides.*

(1) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must list and describe the categories of certification.


(2) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for certification of commercial applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 and 171.103. Such a statement must include one of the following:


(i) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted the same standards for certification prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103.


(ii) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for certification prescribed by the Agency under §§ 171.101 through 171.103. If the Federal agency selects this option, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include all of the following:


(A) A list and detailed description of all the categories and subcategories to be used for certification of commercial applicators.


(B) A list and detailed description of all of the standards for certification of commercial applicators adopted by the Federal agency. Any additional categories or subcategories established by a Federal agency must be included in the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency plan and must clearly describe the standards the Federal agency will use to determine if the applicator has the necessary competency.


(C) A description of the Federal agency's certification examination standards and an explanation of how those meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.103(a)(2).


(3) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for recertification of commercial applicators of restricted use pesticides meet or exceed the standards for recertification prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. Such documentation must include a statement that the Federal agency has adopted its own standards that meet or exceed the standards for recertification prescribed by the Agency under § 171.107. The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include all of the following:


(i) A list and detailed description of all the standards for recertification adopted by the Federal agency.


(ii) The certification period, which may not exceed five years.


(iii) If recertification is based upon written examination, a description of the Federal agency's process for reviewing, and updating as necessary, the written examination(s) and to ensure that the written examination(s) evaluate whether a commercial applicator demonstrates the level of competency required by § 171.103.


(iv) If recertification is based upon continuing education, an explanation of how the quantity, content and quality of the Federal agency's continuing education program ensure that a commercial applicator continues to demonstrate the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators, including but not limited to, all of the following:


(A) The quantity of continuing education required to maintain certification.


(B) The content that is covered by the continuing education program and how the Federal agency ensures the relevant content is covered.


(C) The process the Federal agency uses to approve continuing education training courses or events, including information about how the Federal agency ensures that any continuing education courses or events verify the commercial applicator's successful completion of the course or event.


(D) How the Federal agency ensures the ongoing quality of the continuing education program.


(4) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must contain satisfactory documentation that the Federal agency standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators meet or exceed those standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201. Such documentation may include one or more of the following as applicable:


(i) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted the standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.


(ii) A statement that the Federal agency prohibits noncertified applicators from using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of commercial applicators.


(iii) A statement that the Federal agency has adopted standards for direct supervision of noncertified applicators by commercial applicators that meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201 and an explanation of how the Federal agency standards meet or exceed the standards prescribed by the Agency under § 171.201.


(5) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must meet or exceed all of the applicable requirements in § 171.303. However, in place of the legal authorities required in § 171.303(b)(7), the Federal agency may use administrative controls inherent in the employer-employee relationship to accomplish the objectives of § 171.303(b)(7). The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a detailed description of how the Federal agency will exercise its administrative authority, where appropriate to deny, suspend or revoke certificates of employees who misuse pesticides, falsify records, or violate relevant provisions of FIFRA. Similarly, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment that the Federal agency will record and maintain for the period of at least two years routine operational records containing information on types, amounts, uses, dates, and places of application of restricted use pesticides and that such records will be available to State and Federal officials. Such recordkeeping requirements must require Federal agency employees certified as commercial applicators to record and maintain, at a minimum, all of the records specified in § 171.303(b)(7)(vi).


(c) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment by the Federal agency to submit an annual report to the Agency in a manner that the Agency requires that includes all of the following information:


(1) The numbers of new, recertified, and total commercial applicators certified in at least one certification category at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.


(2) For each commercial applicator certification category specified in § 171.101 or subcategory specified in the Federal agency certification plan, the numbers of new, recertified and total commercial applicators holding a valid certification in each of those categories at the end of the last 12 month reporting period.


(3) A description of any modifications made to the approved certification plan during the last 12 month reporting period that have not been previously evaluated under § 171.309(a)(3).


(4) A description of any proposed changes to the certification plan that may affect the certification program that the Federal agency anticipates making during the next reporting period.


(5) A summary of enforcement activities related to use of restricted use pesticides by applicators certified by the Federal agency during the last 12 month reporting period.


(d) The application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must include a commitment by the Federal agency to submit any other reports reasonably required by the Agency in its oversight of the use of restricted use pesticides.


(e) If applicators certified under the Federal agency plan will make any applications of restricted use pesticides in areas that are not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction, the application for Agency approval of a Federal agency certification plan must meet all of the following additional requirements:


(1) The Federal agency plan must have a provision that affirms Federal agency certified applicators will comply with all applicable State and Tribal pesticide laws and regulations of the jurisdiction in which the restricted pesticide is being used when using restricted use pesticides areas that are not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction, including any substantive State or Tribal standards in regard to qualifications for commercial applicator certification that exceed the Federal agency's standards.


(2) The Federal agency plan must have a provision for the Federal agency to notify the appropriate EPA Regional office and State or Tribal pesticide authority in the event of misuse or suspected misuse of a restricted use pesticide by a Federal agency employee and any pesticide exposure incident involving human or environmental harm that may have been caused by an application of a restricted use pesticide made by a Federal agency employee in an area not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction.


(3) The Federal agency plan must have a provision for the Federal agency to cooperate with the Agency and the State or Tribal pesticide authority in any investigation or enforcement action undertaken in connection with an application of a restricted use pesticide made by a Federal agency employee in an area not subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction.




