# § 1.382-2T   Definition of ownership change under section 382, as amended by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (temporary).

(a) *Ownership change*—(1) *In general.* A corporation is a new loss corporation and thus subject to limitation under section 382 only if an ownership change has occurred with respect to such corporation. An ownership change occurs with respect to a corporation if it is a loss corporation on a testing date and, immediately after the close of the testing date, the percentage of stock of the corporation owned by one or more 5-percent shareholders has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of stock of such corporation owned by such shareholders at any time during the testing period. See paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the definition of testing date. See paragraph (d) of this section for the definition of testing period. See § 1.382-2(a)(1) and paragraph (f)(3) of this section for the respective definition of loss corporation and new loss corporation. See paragraph (g) of this section for the definition of 5-percent shareholder. See section 383 and § 1.383-1 for rules relating to loss corporations that have an ownership change and have capital loss carryovers, excess foreign taxes carried over under section 904(c), carryovers of general business credits under section 39, or unused minimum tax credits under section 53.


(2) *Events requiring a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred*—(i) *Testing dates prior to November 5, 1992.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(2)(i), a loss corporation is required to determine whether an ownership change has occurred immediately after any owner shift, any equity structure shift, or any transaction in which an option with respect to stock of the loss corporation is—


(A) Transferred to (or by) a 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be 5-percent shareholder if the option were treated as exercised), or


(B) Issued by the loss corporation, a first tier entity, or a higher tier entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any transfer of stock of the loss corporation (or an option with respect to such stock) in any of the circumstances described in section 382(l)(3)(B), or any equity structure shift that is not also an owner shift, is not an event that requires the loss corporation to make a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred. For purposes of this section, each date on which a loss corporation is required to make a determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is referred to as a testing date, all computations of increases in percentage ownership are to be made as of the close of the testing date, and any transactions described in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) that occur on that date are treated as occurring simultaneously at the close of the testing date. See paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for the respective definitions of owner shift and equity structure shift. See paragraphs (f)(9) and (14) of this section for the respective definitions of first tier entity and higher tier entity. See paragraph (m)(4)(vii) of this section for special rules regarding the effective date of the provisions of this paragraph (a)(2)(i).


(ii) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.382-11(a).


(iii) *Records to be maintained by loss corporation.* A loss corporation shall keep such records as are necessary to determine: (A) The identity of its 5-percent shareholders, (B) the percentage of its stock owned by each such 5-percent shareholder, and (C) whether the section 382 limitation is applicable. Such records shall be retained so long as they may be material in the administration of any internal revenue law.


(b) *Nomenclature and assumptions.* For purposes of the example in this section—


(1) L is a loss corporation, and, if there is more than one loss corporation, they are designated as L_1_, L_2_, L_3_, etc. 


(2) P is a corporation that is not a loss corporation, and, if there is more than one such corporation, they are designated as P_1_, P_2_, P_3_, etc. 


(3) HC is a corporation whose assets consist solely of the stock of other corporations.


(4) E is an entity other than a corporation (e.g., a partnership), and, if there is more than one such entity, they are designated as E_1_, E_2_, E_3_, etc.


(5) Unless otherwise stated—


(i) A, B, C, D, AA, BB, CC, and DD are unrelated individuals who own interests in corporations or other entities only to the extent expressly stated,


(ii) All corporations have one class of stock outstanding and each share of stock has the same fair market value as each other share, 


(iii) The capital structure of the loss corporation and its business do not change over time, and


(iv) The rules of paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section are not applicable.


(6) Public L represents a group of unrelated individuals and entities that own direct (and not indirect) stock ownership interests in loss corporation L, each of whom owns less than five percent of the stock of the loss corporation, and, if there is more than one loss corporation, such groups are designated as Public L_1_, Public L_2_, Public L_3_, etc.


(7) Public P represents a group of unrelated individuals and entities that own direct (and not indirect) stock ownership interests in corporation P, each of whom owns less than five percent of the stock of the corporation, and, if there is more than one corporation, such groups are designated as Public P_1_, P_2_, P_3_, etc.


(8) Public E represents a group of unrelated individuals and entities that own direct (and not indirect) ownership interests in entity E, each of whom owns less than five percent of the entity, and, if there is more than one entity, such groups are designated as Public E_1_, Public E_2_, Public E_3_, etc.


(c) *Computing the amount of increases in percentage ownership*—(1) *In general.* In order to determine whether an ownership change has occurred on a testing date, the loss corporation must identify each 5-percent shareholder whose percentage of stock ownership in the loss corporation immediately after the close of the testing date has increased, compared to such shareholder's lowest percentage of stock ownership in such corporation at any time during the testing period. The amount of the increase in the percentage of stock ownership in the loss corporation of each 5-percent shareholder must be computed separately by comparing the percentage ownership of each such 5-percent shareholder immediately after the close of the testing date to such shareholder's lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period. Each such increase in the percentage ownership of a 5-percent shareholder is then added together with any other such increases of other 5-percent shareholders to determine whether an ownership change has occurred. Because only those 5-percent shareholders whose percentages of stock ownership have increased are taken into account, a 5-percent shareholder is disregarded if his percentage of stock ownership, immediately after the close of the testing date, has decreased (or has remained the same), compared to his lowest percentage ownership interest on any previous date during the testing period.


(2) *Example.*

(3) *Related and unrelated increases in percentage stock ownership.* The determination whether an ownership change has occurred is made without regard to whether the changes in stock ownership of the loss corporation (by one or more 5-percent shareholders) result from related or unrelated events.


(4) *Example.*

(d) *Testing period*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d) and (m) of this section, the testing period for any testing date is the three-year period ending on the testing date. See paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for the definition of testing date.


(2) *Effect of a prior ownership change.* Following an ownership change, the testing period for determining whether a subsequent ownership change has occurred shall begin no earlier than the first day following the change date of the most recent ownership change. See paragraph (f)(19) of this section for the definition of change date.


(3) *Commencement of the testing period*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, the testing period for any loss corporation shall not begin before the earlier of the first day of either—


(A) The first taxable year from which there is a loss or excess credit carryforward to the first taxable year ending after the testing date, or


(B) The taxable year in which the testing date occurs.


(ii) *Exception for corporations with net unrealized built-in loss.* Paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply if the corporation has a net unrealized built-in loss (determined after application of section 382(h)(3)(B)) on the testing date, unless the loss corporation establishes the taxable year in which the net unrealized built-in loss first accrued.


(A) The first day of the taxable year in which the net unrealized built-in loss first accrued, or


(B) The day described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. See section 382(h) for the definition of net unrealized built-in loss.


(4) *Disregarding testing dates.* Any testing date that occurs before the beginning of the testing period shall be disregarded for purposes of this section.


(5) *Example.*

(e) *Owner shift and equity structure shift*—(1) *Owner shift*—(i) *Defined.* For purposes of this section, an owner shift is any change in the ownership of the stock of a loss corporation that affects the percentage of such stock owned by any 5-percent shareholder. See paragraph (g) of this section for the definition of a 5-percent shareholder. An owner shift includes, but is not limited to, the following transactions:


(A) A purchase of disposition of loss corporation stock by a 5-percent shareholder,


(B) A section 351 exchange that affects the percentage of stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder,


(C) A redemption or a recapitalization that affects the percentage of stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder,


(D) An issuance of loss corporation stock that affects the percentage of stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder, and


(E) An equity structure shift that affects the percentage of stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder.


(ii) *Transactions between persons who are not 5-percent shareholders disregarded.* Transfers of loss corporation stock between persons who are not 5-percent shareholders of such corporation (and between members of separate public groups resulting from the application of the segregation rules of paragraphs (j)(2) and (3)(iii) of this section) are not owner shifts and thus are not taken into account. See paragraph (h)(4)(xi) of this section for a similar rule applicable to transfers of options.


(iii) *Examples.*

(2) *Equity structure shift*—(i) *Tax-free reorganizations.* An equity structure shift is any reorganization within the meaning of section 368 with respect to which the loss corporation is a party to the reorganization, except that such term does not include a reorganization described in—


(A) Section 368(a)(1)(D) or (G) unless the requirements of section 354(b)(1) are met, or


(B) Section 368(a)(1)(F).


(ii) *Transactions designated under section 382(g)(3)(B) treated as equity structure shifts.* [Reserved]


(iii) *Overlap of owner shift and equity structure shift.* Any equity structure shift that affects the percentage of loss corporation stock owned by a 5-percent shareholder also constitutes an owner shift. See paragraph (e)(i)(E) of this section


(iv) *Examples.*

(f) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section— 


(1) *Loss corporation.* See section 382 and § 1.382-2(a)(1) for the definition of a loss corporation.


(2) *Old loss corporation.* The term *old loss corporation* means any corporation with respect to which there is an ownership change and that was a loss corporation immediately before the ownership change. 


(3) *New loss corporation.* The term *new loss corporation* means a corporation with respect to which there is an ownership change if, immediately after such change, it is a loss corporation. A successor corporation to the corporation described in the preceding sentence also is a new loss corporation. 


(4) *Successor corporation.* See § 1.382-2(a)(5) for the definition of *successor corporation.*

(5) *Predecessor corporation.* See § 1.382-2(a)(6) for the definitions of *predecessor corporation.*

(6) *Shift.* As the context may require, a shift means an equity structure shift, an owner shift or both. 


(7) *Entity.* See § 1.382-3(a)(1) for the definition of an entity.


(8) *Direct ownership interest.* A *direct ownership interest* means the interest a person owns in an entity, including a loss corporation, without regard to the constructive ownership rules of paragraph (h) of this section. 


(9) *First tier entity.* A first tier entity is an entity that, at any time during the testing period, owns a five percent or more direct ownership interest in the loss corporation. 


(10) *5-percent owner.* A 5-percent owner is any individual that, at any time during the testing period, owns a five percent or more direct ownership interest in a first tier entity or a higher tier entity. See paragraph (g) of this section for rules to determine whether, as a result of the constructive ownership rules of paragraph (h) of this section, a 5-percent owner is a 5-percent shareholder. 


(11) *Public shareholder.* A public shareholder is any individual, entity, or other person with a direct ownership interest in a loss corporation of less than five percent at all times during the testing period. 


(12) *Public owner.* A public owner is any individual, entity, or other person that, at all times during the testing period, owns less than a five percent direct ownership interest in a first tier entity or any higher tier entity. 


(13) *Public group.* A public group is a group of individuals, entities, or other persons each of whom owns, directly or constructively, less than five percent of the loss corporation. See paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section for the rules applicable to identify public groups and to determine whether a public group is a 5-percent shareholder. 


(14) *Higher tier entity.* A higher tier entity is any entity that, at any time during the testing period, owns a five percent or more direct ownership interest in a first tier entity or in any higher tier entity. 


(15) *Indirect ownership interest.* An indirect ownership is an interest a person owns in an entity determined solely as a result of the application of the constructive ownership rules of paragraph (h) of this section and without regard to any direct ownership interest (or other beneficial ownership interest) in the entity.


(16) *Highest tier entity.* A highest tier entity is a first tier entity or a higher tier entity that is not owned, in whole or in part, at any time during the testing period by a higher tier entity.


(17) *Next lower tier entity.* The next lower tier entity with respect to a first tier entity is the loss corporation. The next lower tier entity with respect to a higher tier entity is any first tier entity or other higher tier entity in which the higher tier entity owns, at any time during the testing period, a five percent or more direct ownership interest.


(18) *Stock*—(i) *In general.* For further guidance, see § 1.382-2(a)(3)(i).


(ii) *Treating stock as not stock.* Any ownership interest that otherwise would be treated as stock under paragraph (f)(18)(i) of this section shall not be treated as stock if—


(A) As of the time of its issuance or transfer to (or by) a 5-percent shareholder, the likely participation of such interest in future corporate growth is disproportionately small when compared to the value of such stock as a proportion of the total value of the outstanding stock of the corporation,


(B) Treating the interest as not constituting stock would result in an ownership change, and


(C) The amount of the pre-change loss (determined as if the testing date were the change and treating the amount of any net unrealized built-in loss as a pre-change loss) is more than twice the amount determined by multiplying


(*1*) the value of the loss corporation (as determined under section 382(e)) on the testing date, by


(*2*) the long-term tax exempt rate (as defined in section 382(f)) for the calendar month in which the testing date occurs.


(iii) *Treating interests not constituting stock as stock.* Any ownership interest that would not be treated as stock under paragraph (f)(18)(i) of this section (other than an option that is subject to paragraph (h)(4) of this section) shall be treated as constituting stock if—


(A) As of the time of its issuance or transfer to (or by) a 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be a 5-percent shareholder if the interest not constituting stock were treated as stock), such interest offers a potential significant participation in the growth of the corporation,


(B) Treating the interest as constituting stock would result in an ownership change, and


(C) The amount of the pre-change losses (determined as if the testing date were the change date and treating the amount of any net unrealized built-in loss as a pre-change loss) is more than twice the amount determined by multiplying 


(*1*) The value of the loss corporation (as determined under section 382(e)) on the testing date, by


(*2*) The long-term tax exempt rate (as defined in section 382(f)) for the calendar month in which the testing date occurs.


(iv) *Stock of the loss corporation.* The *stock of the loss corporation* means stock of such corporation within the meaning of this paragraph (f)(18) and, as the context may require, includes any indirect ownership interest in the loss corporation.


(19) *Change date.* The *change date* means the date on which a shift (or any other transaction described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section) that is the last component of an ownership change occurs.


(20) *Year.* A *year,* or any multiple thereof, means a 365-day period (or a 366-day period in the case of a leap year), or any multiple thereof, unless the year is specifically identified as a taxable year.


(21) *Old section 382.* “Old section 382” means section 382, as in effect prior to the effective date of section 382 in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the “Act”), but taking into account section 621(f)(2) of the Act.


(22) *Pre-change loss.* See section 382 and § 1.382-2(a)(2) for the definition of pre-change loss.


(23) *Unrelated.* Any two persons are unrelated if the constructive ownership rules of paragraph (h) of this section do not apply to treat either person as owning stock that is owned, directly or constructively, by the other person.


(24) *Percentage ownership interest.* A person's percentage ownership interest in—


(i) A corporation shall be determined under the rules of this section that are applicable to the determination of a shareholder's percentage stock ownership interest in a loss corporation (see paragraphs (f)(18)(i) through (iii) of this section),


(ii) A partnership shall be equal to the relative fair market value of such person's partnership interest to the total fair market value of all outstanding partnership interests, determined without regard to any limited and preferred partnership interest that is described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(C) of this section,


(iii) A trust shall be determined in accordance with the principles of section 318(a)(2)(B) for determining the constructive ownership of stock,


(iv) An estate shall be determined in accordance with the principles of section 318(a)(2)(A) for determining the constructive ownership of stock, and


(v) All other entities shall be determined by reference to the person's relative economic interest in the entity, taking into account all of the relevant facts and circumstances.


(g) *5-percent shareholder*—(1) *In general.* Subject to the rules of paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section, the term *5-percent shareholder* means—


(i) An individual that owns, at any time during the testing period, 


(A) A direct ownership interest in the stock of the loss corporation of five percent or more or 


(B) An indirect ownership interest in the stock of the loss corporation of five percent or more by virtue of an ownership interest in any one first tier entity or higher tier entity,


(ii) A public group, of either a first tier entity or a higher tier entity, identified as a 5-percent shareholder under paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section,


(iii) A public group of the loss corporation identified as a 5-percent shareholder under paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, and


(iv) A public group, of the loss corporation, a first tier entity or a higher tier entity, identified as a 5-percent shareholder under paragraph (j)(2) or (3) of this section. An individual owning five percent or more of the stock of the loss corporation at any time during the testing period is a 5-percent shareholder notwithstanding that the individual may own less than five percent of the stock of the loss corporation on the testing date. See paragraph (g)(5)(i)(B) of this section for rules permitting a loss corporation to make an adjustment in cases described in the preceding sentence.


(2) *Determination of whether a person is a 5-percent shareholder.* Except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section, a person shall be treated as constructively owning stock of the loss corporation pursuant to paragraph (h)(2) of this section only if the loss corporation stock is attributed to such person in the person's capacity as a higher tier entity or a 5-percent owner of the first tier entity or higher tier entity from which such stock is attributed. See paragraph (k)(3) of this section for rules explaining the extent of the obligation of the loss corporation to determine the identity of its 5-percent shareholders. Nothing in this paragraph (g)(2), however, shall limit the attribution of loss corporation stock under section 318(a)(2) and paragraph (h) of this section to a public owner.


(3) *Determination of the percentage stock ownership interest of a 5-percent shareholder.* Subject to the rules of paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section, in determining a 5-percent shareholder's percentage ownership interest in the loss corporation, the shareholder's direct ownership interest, if any, and each indirect ownership interest that he may have in the loss corporation in his capacity as a 5-percent owner of any one first tier entity or higher tier entity, if any, are required to be added together and taken into account with respect to such shareholder only to the extent that each such direct or indirect ownership interest constitutes five percent or more of the stock of the loss corporation.


(4) *Examples.*

(5) *Stock ownership presumptions in connection with certain acquisitions, and dispositions of loss corporation stock*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section—


(A) If an individual owns less than five percent of the stock of a loss corporation during the testing period (excluding the testing date) and acquires an amount of such stock so that the individual becomes a 5-percent shareholder on the testing date, the loss corporation may treat any interest in the loss corporation owned by such individual prior to that acquisition as owned by a public group during the period of such individual's ownership of that interest and as not owned by the 5-percent shareholder during the same period, and


(B) If a 5-percent shareholder's percentage ownership interest in the loss corporation is reduced to less than five percent, the loss corporation may presume that the remaining stock owned by such 5-percent shareholder immediately after such reduction is the stock owned by such shareholder for each subsequent testing date having a testing period that includes the date on which the reduction occurred as long as such shareholder continues to own less than five percent of the stock of the loss corporation. In that event, such ownership interest shall be treated as owned by a separate public group for purposes of the rules of paragraph (j)(2)(vi) of this section.


(ii) *Example.*

(h) *Constructive ownership of stock*—(1) *In general.* Subject to certain modifications set forth in this section and section 382(l)(3), the constructive ownership rules of section 318(a) generally apply for purposes of determining ownership of loss corporation stock.


(2) *Attribution from corporations, partnerships, estates and trusts*—(i) *In general.* Stock owned (directly or indirectly) by an entity shall be attributed to its owners—


(A) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by treating the stock attributed pursuant to section 318(a)(2) as no longer being owned by the entity from which it is attributed, and


(B) If attribution is from a corporation, without regard to the 50 percent stock ownership limitation contained in section 318(a)(2)(C).


(ii) *Limitation on attribution from entities with respect to certain interests.* Section 318(a)(2) shall not apply to treat the stock of the loss corporation that is owned directly by a first tier entity (or indirectly by any higher tier entity) as being indirectly owned by any person that has an ownership interest in the first tier entity (or any higher tier entity) to the extent that such interest is (or is attributable to)—


(A) Stock of any such entity that is described in section 1504(a)(4),


(B) Any ownership interest in any such entity that does not constitute stock under paragraph (f)(18)(ii) of this section, or


(C) If the entity is not a corporation, any ownership interest in any such entity that has characteristics similar to the interests described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.


(iii) *Limitation on attribution from certain entities.* For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section, each of the following shall be treated as an individual who is unrelated to any other owner (direct or indirect) of the loss corporation—


(A) Any entity other than a higher tier entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation stock (determined without regard to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section) on a testing date, a first tier entity or the loss corporation,


(B) A qualified trust described in section 401(a),


(C) Any State, any possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the United States (or any agency or instrumentality thereof), any foreign government, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing, and


(D) Any other person designated by the Internal Revenue Service in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.


(iv) *Examples.*

(3) *Attribution to corporations, partnerships, estates and trusts.* Except as otherwise provided by regulation under section 382 or by the Internal Revenue Service in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, the rules of section 318(a)(3) shall not apply in determining the ownership of stock under this section. 


(4) *Option attribution*—(i) *In general.* Solely for the purpose of determining whether there is an ownership change on any testing date, stock of the loss corporation that is subject to an option shall be treated as acquired on any such date, pursuant to an exercise of the option by its owner on that date, if such deemed exercise would result in an ownership change. The preceding sentence shall be applied separately with respect to—


(A) Each class of options (*i.e.,* options with terms that are identical, issued by the same issuer, and issued on the same date) owned by each 5-percent shareholder (or person who would be a 5-percent shareholder if the option were treated as exercised), and


(B) Each 5-percent shareholder, each owner of an option who would be a 5-percent shareholder if the option were treated as exercised, and each combination of such persons.


(ii) *Examples.*

(iii) *Contingencies.* Except as provided in paragraph (h)(4)(x)(D) of this section, the extent to which an option is contingent or otherwise not currently exercisable shall be disregarded for purposes of this section.


(iv) *Series of options.* For purposes of this section, an option to acquire an option with respect to the stock of the loss corporation, and each one of a series of such options, shall be considered as an option to acquire such stock.


(v) *Interests that are similar to options.* For purposes of this section,


(A) An interest that is similar to an option includes, but is not limited to, a warrant, a convertible debt instrument, an instrument other than debt that is convertible into stock, a put, a stock interest subject to risk of forfeiture, and a contract to acquire or sell stock, and


(B) Any such interest shall be treated as an option.


(vi) *Actual exercise of options*—(A) *In general.* The actual exercise of any option in existence immediately before and after an ownership change, whether or not the option was treated as exercised in connection with the ownership change under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, shall be disregarded for purposes of this section, but only if the option is exercised by the 5-percent shareholder (or person who would have been a 5-percent shareholder if the options owned by such person had been exercised immediately before the ownership change) who owned the option immediately before and after such ownership change.


(B) *Actual exercise within 120 days of deemed exercise.* If the actual exercise of an option occurs on or before the end of the period which is 120 days after the date on which the option is treated as exercised under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, the loss corporation may elect to treat paragraphs (h)(4)(i) and (vi)(A) of this section as not applying to such option and take into account only the acquisition of loss corporation stock resulting from the actual exercise of the option. An election under this paragraph (h)(4)(vi)(B) shall have no effect on the determination of whether an ownership change occurs, but shall apply only for the purpose of determining the date on which the change date occurs. An election under this paragraph (h)(4)(vi)(B) shall be made in the statement described in § 1.382-11(a).


(vii) *Effect of deemed exercise of options on the outstanding stock of the loss corporation*—(A) *Right or obligation to issue stock.* Solely for purposes of determining whether an ownership change has occurred under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, the deemed exercise of an option with respect to unissued stock (or treasury stock) of a corporation shall result in a corresponding increase in the amount of its total outstanding stock.


(B) *Right or obligation to acquire outstanding stock by the loss corporation.* Solely for purposes of determining whether an ownership change has occurred under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, the deemed exercise of a right to transfer outstanding stock to the issuing corporation (or a right of the issuing corporation to acquire its stock) shall result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of its total outstanding stock.


(C) *Effect on value of old loss corporation.* The deemed exercise of an option with respect to unissued stock (or treasury stock) under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section shall have no effect on the determination of the value of the old loss corporation and the computation of the section 382 limitation. See section 382(l)(1)(B) disregarding capital contributions made during the two-year period preceding the change date for purposes of computing the section 382 limitation.


(viii) *Options that lapse or are forfeited.* If an option that is treated as exercised under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section lapses unexercised or the owner of such option irrevocably forfeits his right to acquire stock pursuant to the option, the option shall be treated for purposes of this section as if it never had been issued. In that case, the loss corporation may file an amended return for prior years (subject to any applicable statute of limitations) if the section 382 limitation was thus inapplicable. If paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section applied to an option (or options) with respect to a taxable year for which an income tax return has not been filed by the date that the option (or options) lapses or is irrevocably forfeited, the loss corporation may treat paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section as inapplicable to such option (or options).


(ix) *Option rule inapplicable if pre-change losses are de minimis.* Paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section shall not apply to treat the stock of the loss corporation as acquired by the owner of an option if, on a testing date, the amount of pre-change losses (determined as if the testing date were a change date and treating the amount of any net unrealized built-in loss as a pre-change loss) is less than twice the amount determined by multiplying. 


(A) The value of the loss corporation (as determined under section 382(e)) on the testing date, by


(B) The long-term tax exempt rate (as defined in section 382(f)) for the calendar month in which the testing date occurs.


(x) *Options not subject to attribution.* Paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section shall not apply to—


(A) *Long-held options with respect to actively traded stock.* Any option with respect to stock of the loss corporation which stock is actively traded on an established securities market (within the meaning of section 1273(b)) for which market quotations are readily available, if such option has been continuously owned by the same 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be a 5-percent shareholder if such option were exercised) for at least three years, but only until the earlier of such time as—


(*1*) The option is transferred by or to a 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be a 5-percent shareholder if such option were exercised), or


(*2*) The fair market value of the stock that is subject to the option exceeds the exercise price for such stock on the testing date. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(4)(x)(A), options with respect to the stock of a loss corporation that are assumed (or substituted) in a reorganization and converted into options with respect to the stock of another party to the reorganization shall not be treated as transferred, provided that there are no changes in the terms of the options, other than that the stock that may be acquired pursuant to the option is that of another party to the reorganization and that the amount of stock subject to the option is adjusted only to reflect the exchange ratio for the exchange of stock of the loss corporation in the reorganization.


(B) *Right to receive or obligation to issue a fixed dollar amount of value of stock upon maturity of certain debt.* Any right to receive or obligation to issue stock pursuant to the terms of a debt instrument that, in economic terms, is equivalent to nonconvertible debt because the right to receive stock of the issuer of a fixed dollar amount is based upon the fair market value for such stock determined at or about the date the stock is transferred pursuant to such right or obligation (*i.e.,* the amount of the stock transferred pursuant to the option is equal to a fixed dollar amount, divided by the value of each share of such stock at or about the date of the stock transfer). This paragraph (h)(4)(x)(B) shall not apply if the method for determining the fair market value of the stock of the issuer is intended to or, in fact, provides the owner of the debt instrument with a participation in any appreciation of any stock of the issuer.


(C) *Right or obligation to redeem stock of the loss corporation.* Any right or obligation of the loss corporation to redeem any of its stock at the time such stock is issued, but only to the extent such stock is issued to persons who are not 5-percent shareholders immediately before the issuance.


(D) *Options exercisable only upon death, disability or mental incompetency.* Any option entered into between owners of the same entity (or an owner and the entity in which the owner has a direct ownership interest) with respect to such owner's ownership interest in the entity that is exercisable only upon the death, complete disability or mental incompetency of such owner.


(E) *Right to receive or obligation to issue stock as interest or dividends.* Any right to receive or obligation to issue stock of a corporation in payment of interest or dividends by the issuing corporation. (For an example illustrating this exception, see paragraph (j)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.) 


(F) *Options outstanding following an ownership change*—(*1*) *In general.* Any option in existence immediately before and after an ownership change, whether or not the option was treated as exercised in connection with the ownership change under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, but only so long as the option continues to be owned by the 5-percent shareholder (or person who was treated as a 5-percent shareholder) who owned the option immediately before and after such ownership change.


(*2*) *Example* (*i*) A, B, C and D own all of the outstanding stock of L. A owns 70 shares of L stock and each of B, C and D own 10 shares of L stock. On July 12, 1988, L issues warrants to each of its shareholders entitling them to acquire an additional 8.5 shares of L stock for each share of stock owned.


(*ii*) If B, C and D, but not A, each exercise their respective rights to acquire an additional 85 shares of L stock (10 shares × 8.5 shares that may be acquired for each share owned) on July 12, 1988, their combined ownership interest in L on that date would exceed 80 percent (255 shares deemed to be acquired + 30 shares actually owned)/355 shares outstanding (actual and deemed)). B, C and D thus would increase their ownership interest in L by 50.3 percentage points during the testing period, causing an ownership change, because, under paragraph (h)(4)(i)(B) of this section, the options are treated as exercised if the exercise would cause an ownership change. 


(*iii*) Following the ownership change, paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section applies to prevent A's right to acquire 595 shares of L stock (70 shares × 8.5 shares that may be acquired for each share owned) or the rights held by B, C, or D, to be treated as exercised on any subsequent testing date, except to the extent that those rights are transferred. To the extent any of those options are transferred following the ownership change, paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section will apply to any such options on the date of the transfer and on any subsequent testing date.


(G) *Right to acquire loss corporation stock pursuant to a default under a loan agreement.* Any right to acquire stock of a corporation by a bank (as that term is defined in section 581), an insurance company (as that term is defined in § 1.801-3(a)), or a trust qualified under section 401(a) solely as the result of a default under a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of the trade or business of such bank, life insurance company or qualified trust. 


(H) *Agreement to acquire or sell stock owned by certain shareholders upon retirement.* Any option entered into between noncorporate owners of the same entity (or a noncorporate owner and the entity in which the owner has a direct ownership interest) with respect to such owner's ownership interest in the entity, but only if each of such owners actively participate in the management of the entity's trade or business, the option is issued at a time that the loss corporation is not a loss corporation and the option is exercisable solely upon the retirement of such owner. An option with terms described in both this paragraph (h)(4)(x)(H) and in paragraph (h)(4)(x)(D) of this section shall also not be subject to paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section. 


(I) [Reserved]


(J) *Title 11 or similar case.* See § 1.382-9(o) which excepts certain options created by or under a plan of reorganization in a title 11 or similar case from the operation of paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section.


(K)-(Y) [Reserved]


(xi) *Certain transfers of options disregarded.* Transfers of options between persons who are not 5-percent shareholders (and between members of separate public groups resulting from the application of the segregation rules of paragraphs (j)(2) and (3)(iii) of this section) are not taken into account. Transfers of options in any of the circumstances described in section 382(l)(3)(B) are also disregarded and the transferee shall be treated as having owned the option for the period that it was owned by the transferor. 


(xii) *Exercise of an option that has not been treated as stock.* The acquisition of stock pursuant to the actual exercise of an option (other than an option described in paragraph (h)(4)(vi)(A) of this section) shall not be disregarded. 


(xiii) *Effective date.* See paragraph (m)(4)(vi) of this section for special rules regarding the effective date of the provisions of this paragraph (h)(4).


(5) *Stock transferred under certain agreements.* Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(4) of this section, no shift results solely because under section 1058(a)—


(i) A shareholder transfers stock of a corporation pursuant to an agreement that meets the requirements of section 1058(b), or 


(ii) A person having rights under such an agreement exchanges those rights for stock identical to the stock transferred pursuant to the agreement. 


(6) *Family attribution.* For purposes of this section—


(i) Paragraphs (1) and (5)(B) of section 318(a) shall not apply, 


(ii) An individual and all members of his family described in section 318(a)(1) shall be treated as one individual, 


(iii) Subject to paragraph (k)(2) of this section, paragraph (h)(6)(ii) of this section shall not apply to members of a family who, without regard to that paragraph (h)(6)(ii), would not be 5-percent shareholders, and 


(iv) If under paragraph (h)(6)(ii) of this section, an individual may be treated as a member of more than one family, and each family that is treated as one individual is a 5-percent shareholder (or would be treated as a 5-percent shareholder if such individual were treated as a member of such family), then such individual shall be treated only as a member of the family that results in the smallest increase in the total percentage stock ownership of the 5-percent shareholders on the testing date and shall not be treated as the member of any other family.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Aggregation and segregation rules.* For purposes of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section—


(1) *Aggregation of public shareholders and public owners into public groups*—(i) *Public group.* Under this paragraph (j), a loss corporation or other entity can be treated as owned, in whole or in part, by one or more public groups. A public group can include public shareholders, public owners, and 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders of the loss corporation.


(ii) *Treatment of a public group that is a 5-percent shareholder.* Each public group that is treated as a 5-percent shareholder under paragraph (g)(1)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section shall be treated as one individual. See paragraph (j)(2)(iv) for a rule combining certain de minimis public groups.


(iii) *Presumption of no cross-ownership.* The public owners, 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders and public shareholders in any public group, subject to paragraphs (j)(2)(iii), (k)(2) and (k)(4) of this section, are presumed not to be members of any other public group. It also is presumed that each such person is unrelated to all other shareholders (direct and indirect) of the loss corporation. See paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section. The members of a public group that exists by virtue of its direct ownership interest in an entity are presumed not to be members (and not to be related to a member) of any other public group that exists at any time by virtue of its direct ownership interest in any other entity. To the extent that the presumptions adopted in this paragraph (j)(1)(iii) are not applicable because the loss corporation has actual knowledge of facts to the contrary and is thus subject to paragraph (k)(2) of this section, public shareholders, public owners and 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders may be aggregated into additional public groups.


(iv) *Identification of the public groups treated as 5-percent shareholders*—(A) *Analysis of highest tier entities.* The loss corporation must identify first tier entities and higher tier entities in order to identify any highest tier entities that must be identified under paragraph (k)(3) of this section. The loss corporation must then identify any 5-percent owners of each such highest tier entity who indirectly own, at any time during the testing period, five percent or more of the loss corporation through the ownership interest in such highest tier entity. Under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section, any such 5-percent owner is a 5-percent shareholder. See paragraph (k)(3) of this section for rules explaining the extent of the obligation of the loss corporation to determine the identity of its shareholders. Each person who has an ownership interest in any highest tier entity and who is not treated as a 5-percent shareholder (*i.e.,* persons who are public owners or 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders) is a member of the public group of that highest tier entity. A public group, so identified, that indirectly owns five percent or more of the loss corporation on the testing date is treated under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section as a 5-percent shareholder. If the public group so identified owns less than five percent of the loss corporation on the testing date, such public group is treated as part of the public group of the next lower tier entity.


(B) *Analysis of other higher tier entities and first tier entities.* The analysis and aggregation of public groups described in paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(A) of this section is repeated for any next lower tier entity and successively for any next lower tier entity of any entity described in this paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(B) until applied to each first tier entity.


(C) *Aggregation of the public shareholders.* The public shareholders are aggregated and, under paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section, are treated as a public group that is a 5-percent shareholder without regard to whether such group, at any time during the testing period, owns five percent or more of the loss corporation. For this purpose, if the public group of any first tier entity indirectly owns less than five percent of the loss corporation on the testing date, and is thus not treated as a 5-percent shareholder, but is treated as part of the public group of the loss corporation under paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section, the ownership interest of that group is included in the public group of the loss corporation referred to in the preceding sentence.


(v) *Appropriate adjustments.* A loss corporation may apply the principles of paragraph (g)(5) of this section with respect to—


(A) Any public group that is treated as a 5-percent shareholder on the testing date if such public group, at any time during the testing period, was treated as part of the public group of the next lower tier entity, or 


(B) Any public group that is treated as part of the public group of a next lower tier entity if such public group, at any time during the testing period, was part of the public group of a higher tier entity that was treated as a 5-percent shareholder and had a direct or indirect ownership interest in such lower tier entity. 


(vi) *Examples.*

(2) *Segregation rules applicable to transactions involving the loss corporation*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, if—


(A) A transaction is described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section, and


(B) The loss corporation has one or more direct public groups immediately before and after the transaction,


(ii) *Direct public group.* For purposes of this section, a direct public group is any public group of the loss corporation described in paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(C) of this section or any public group of the loss corporation resulting from the application of paragraph (j)(2)(iii) or (j)(3)(i) of this section.


(iii) *Transactions to which segregation rules apply*—(A) *In general.* The segregation rules of this paragraph (j)(2)(iii) apply to any transaction described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of this section in the manner specified. The presumptions adopted by this paragraph (j)(2)(iii) shall not apply only if, and to the extent that, the loss corporation either has actual knowledge of facts to the contrary regarding its stock ownership and is thus subject to paragraph (k)(2) of this section, or is subject to paragraph (k)(4) of this section. Any direct public group that is required to be identified as a result of a transaction described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section shall be treated as a 5-percent shareholder under paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section without regard to whether such group, at any time during the testing period, owns five percent or more of the loss corporation stock. To the extent that the presumptions are rebutted, the public shareholders, public owners and 5-percent owners who are not 5-percent shareholders may be aggregated into additional public groups. For an exception applicable to certain regulated investment companies, see § 1.382-3(k)(1).


(B) *Certain equity structure shifts and transactions to which section 1032 applies*—(*1*) *In general.* In the case of—


(*i*) A transaction that is an equity structure shift that also is described in section 381(a)(2) and in which the loss corporation is a party to the reorganization, or


(*ii*) A transfer of the stock of the loss corporation (including treasury stock) by the loss corporation in any other transaction to which section 1032 applies,


(*2*) *Examples.*

(C) *Redemption-type transactions*—(*1*) *In general.* In the case of a transaction in which the loss corporation acquires its stock in exchange for property, each direct public group that exists immediately before the transaction shall be segregated at that time (and thereafter) so that the stock that is acquired in the transaction is treated as owned by a separate public group from each public group that owns the stock that is not acquired. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term property shall include stock described in section 1504(a)(4) and stock described in paragraph (f)(18)(ii) of this section. Each direct public group that owned the stock that is acquired in the transaction is presumed not to own any such stock immediately after the transaction.


(*2*) *Examples.*

(D) *Acquisition of loss corporation stock as the result of the ownership of a right to acquire stock—(1*) *In general.* In the case of a deemed acquisition of stock of the loss corporation as the result of the ownership of a right issued by the loss corporation to acquire such stock (see paragraph (h)(4) of this section), each direct public group that exists immediately after such acquisition shall be segregated so that each direct public group that existed immediately before the transaction is treated separately from the direct public group that is deemed to acquire stock of the loss corporation as a result of the ownership of the right to acquire such stock. The direct public group that is treated as acquiring stock of the loss corporation in the transaction is presumed not to include any members of any direct public group that existed immediately before the transaction. In applying the rules of paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the segregation rules of this paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(D) shall apply before making the determination required under that paragraph (h)(4) of this section. See § 1.382-3(j)(9) for rules relating to this paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(D). 


(*2*) *Example.*

(E) *Transactions identified in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.* Any transaction that is designated by the International Revenue Service in the Internal Revenue Bulletin shall be subject to the rules, as provided in such bulletin, similar to the rules described in this paragraph (j)(2)(iii).


(F) *Issuance of rights to acquire loss corporation stock*—(*1*) *In general.* In the case of any transaction that is described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B), (D) or (E) of this section in which the loss corporation issues rights to acquire its stock to the members of more than one public group, those rights shall be presumed to be exercised pro rata by each such public group as those rights are actually exercised. See § 1.382-3(j)(10) for an exception to the application of the rule of this paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(F)(*1*) to stock issued on the exercise of a transferable option. 


(*2*) *Example.*

(iv) *Combination of de minimis public groups*—(A) *In general.* Notwithstanding paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, any public group first identified during a taxable year, as a result of any transaction described in paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B), (D), (E), or (F) of this section, that owns less than five percent of loss corporation stock may be combined, at the option of the loss corporation, with any other such groups also first identified as a result of any such transaction that occurs during such taxable year.


(B) *Example.*

(v) *Multiple transactions*—(A) *In general.* If a transaction (or any part thereof) is described by more than one subdivision of paragraph (j)(2)(iii) of this section, each such subdivision shall apply to the transaction (or each part of the transaction) in the manner that results in the largest increase in the percentage stock ownership by the 5-percent shareholders. 


(B) *Example.*

(vi) *Acquisitions made by either a 5-percent shareholder or the loss corporation following application of the segregation rules.* Unless a different proportion is established by either the loss corporation or the Internal Revenue Service, the acquisition of loss corporation stock by either a 5-percent shareholder or the loss corporation on any date on which more than one public group of the loss corporation exists by virtue of the application of the rules of this paragraph (j)(2) shall be treated as being made proportionately from each public group existing immediately before such acquisition. See paragraph (g)(5)(i)(B) of this section for the application of this paragraph to the ownership interest of a 5-percent shareholder that owns less than five percent of the stock of the loss corporation on the testing date. 


(3) *Segregation rules applicable to transactions involving first tier entities or higher tier entities*—(i) *Dispositions.* If a loss corporation is owned, in whole or in part, by a public group (or groups), the rules of paragraphs (j)(2)(iii)(B) and (iv) of this section shall apply to any transaction in which a first tier entity or an individual that owns a direct ownership interest in the loss corporation of five percent or more transfers a direct ownership interest in the loss corporation to public shareholders. Therefore, each direct public group that exists immediately after such a disposition shall be segregated so that the ownership interests of each public group that existed immediately before the transaction are treated separately from the public group that acquires stock of the loss corporation as a result of the disposition by the individual or first tier entity. The principles of this paragraph (j)(3)(i) shall also apply to transactions in which an ownership interest in a higher tier entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section) or a first tier entity is transferred to a public owner or 5-percent owner who is not a 5-percent shareholder. 


(ii) *Example.*

(iii) *Other transactions affecting direct public groups of a first tier entity or higher tier entity.* The rules of paragraphs (j)(2)(i), (iii), (iv) and (v) of this section shall apply to transactions described in such paragraphs that involve either a higher tier entity that owns five percent or more of the loss corporation (determined without regard to the application of paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section) or a first tier entity. In applying those rules for purposes of this paragraph (j)(3)(iii), each direct public group of a first tier entity or a higher tier entity is any public group of any such entity identified in paragraph (j)(1)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section or resulting from the application of this paragraph (j)(3)(iii). The principles of paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(C) of this section also shall apply to any transaction that has the effect of a redemption-type transaction (e.g., an acquisition by the loss corporation of stock in a first tier entity). 


(iv) *Examples.*

(v) *Acquisitions made by a 5-percent shareholder, a higher tier entity, or a first tier entity following application of the segregation rules.* The rules of paragraph (j)(2)(vi) of this section shall apply to the acquisition of an ownership interest in a first tier entity (or higher tier entity) if more than one direct public group of any such entity are segregated under the rules of this paragraph (j)(3). Accordingly, an acquisition by such an entity or a 5-percent shareholder of any ownership interest in such an entity shall be treated as made proportionately from the direct public groups resulting from the application of this paragraph (j)(3). 


(k) *Operating rules*—(1) *Presumptions regarding stock ownership.* Subject to paragraphs (k)(2) and (4) of this section, for purposes of applying paragraphs (f), (g), (h), and (j)(1) of this section— 


(i) *Stock subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.* With respect to loss corporation stock that is described in Rule 13d-1(d) of Regulation 13D-G (or any rule or regulation to generally the same effect), promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (“registered stock”), a loss corporation may rely on the existence and absence of filings of Schedules 13D and 13G (or any similar schedules) as of any date to identify all of the corporation's shareholders who have a direct ownership interest of five percent or more (both individuals and first tier entities) on such date. A loss corporation may similarly rely on the existence and absence of such filings as of any date with respect to registered stock of any first tier entity or any higher tier entity to identify the 5-percent owners of any such entities on such date who indirectly own five percent or more of the loss corporation stock, and are thus 5-percent shareholders, and to identify any higher tier entities of such entities. 


(ii) *Statements under penalties of perjury.* A loss corporation may rely on a statement, signed under penalties of perjury, by an officer, director, partner, trustee, executor or similar responsible person, on behalf of a first tier entity or a higher tier entity to establish the extent, if any, to which the ownership interests of any 5-percent owners or higher tier entities with respect to such entities have changed during a testing period. A loss corporation may not rely on such a statement (A) that it knows to be false or (B) that is made by either a first tier entity or higher tier entity that owns 50 percent or more of the stock of the loss corporation. For purposes of the preceding sentence, any first tier entities and higher tier entities that are known by the loss corporation to be members of the same controlled group (within the meaning of section 267(f)) shall be treated as one corporation. 


(2) *Actual knowledge regarding stock ownership.* For purposes of this section (other than paragraphs (g)(5) and (j)(1)(v) of this section), to the extent that the loss corporation has actual knowledge of stock ownership on any testing date (or acquires such knowledge before the date that the income tax return is filed for the taxable year in which the testing date occurs) by— 


(i) An individual who would be a 5-percent shareholder, but for the application of paragraphs (h)(2)(iii), (h)(6)(iii) or (g)(2) of this section, or 


(ii) A 5-percent shareholder that would be taken into account, but for paragraphs (h)(2)(iii), (h)(6)(iii) or (g)(3) of this section,


(3) *Duty to inquire as to actual stock ownership in the loss corporation.* For purposes of this section, the loss corporation is required to determine the stock ownership on each testing date (and, except as otherwise provided in this section, the changes in the stock ownership during the testing period) of— 


(i) Any individual shareholder who has a direct ownership interest of five percent or more in the loss corporation,


(ii) Any first tier entity, 


(iii) Any higher tier entity that has an indirect ownership interest of five percent or more in the loss corporation (determined without regard to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) of this section), and 


(iv) Any 5-percent owner who indirectly owns five percent or more of the stock of the loss corporation in his capacity as a 5-percent owner in any one first tier entity or higher tier entity.


(4) *Ownership interest structured to avoid the section 382 limitation.* For purposes of this section, if the ownership interests in a loss corporation are structured by a person with a direct or indirect ownership interest in the loss corporation to avoid treating a person as a 5-percent shareholder (or to permit the loss corporation to rely on the presumption provided in paragraph (g)(5)(i)(B) of this section) for a principal purpose of circumventing the section 382 limitation, then— 


(i) Paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section shall not apply with respect to the ownership interests so structured and the constructive ownership rules of paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section shall thus apply to attribute stock from any entity without regard to the amount of stock it owns in the loss corporation or any other corporation, 


(ii) Paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section shall be modified with respect to the ownership interests so structured so that the ownership interest of a person includes all of an individual's direct and indirect ownership in the loss corporation, without regard to whether each such interest represents five percent or more of the stock of the loss corporation, and 


(iii) Paragraph (g)(5)(i)(B) of this section shall not apply with respect to the ownership interests so structured so that the ownership interest of a person takes into account his actual ownership interest in the loss corporation.


(5) *Example.*

(6) *First tier entity or higher tier entity that is a foreign corporation or entity.* [Reserved]


(l) *Changes in percentage ownership which are attributable to fluctuations in value.* [Reserved]


(m) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in this paragraph (m), section 382 shall apply to any ownership change that occurs immediately after an owner shift or an equity structure shift that occurs after December 31, 1986, or any other event occurring after such date that requires the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. In the case of an equity structure shift (including an equity structure shift that also constitutes an owner shift), any equity structure shift completed pursuant to a plan of reorganization adopted before January 1, 1987, shall be treated as occurring on the date such plan was adopted. Therefore, section 382 shall apply to any ownership change occurring immediately after— 


(i) An owner shift (excluding an owner shift that also constitutes an equity structure shift) that occurs on or after January 1, 1987, 


(ii) An equity structure shift that occurs after December 31, 1986, if it is completed pursuant to a plan of reorganization adopted on or after January 1, 1987, or 


(iii) Any transfer or issuance of an option, or other interest that is similar to an option, that occurs on or after January l, 1987 and that is taken into account under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(2) *Plan of reorganization.* For purposes of paragraph (m)(1) of this section, a plan of reorganization shall be treated as adopted on the earlier of— 


(i) The first date that the boards of directors of all the parties to the reorganization have adopted the plan or have recommended adoption to their shareholders, or 


(ii) The date the shareholders approve such reorganization.


(3) *Earliest commencement of the testing period.* For purposes of determining if an ownership change has occurred at any time after May 5, 1986, the testing period shall begin no earlier than May 6, 1986. Under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, therefore, shifts in the ownership of stock of the loss corporation prior to May 6, 1986 are disregarded.


(4) *Transitional rules*—(i) *Rules provided in paragraph (j) of this section for testing dates before September 4, 1987.* For purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs for any testing date before September 4, 1987. 


(A) The rules of paragraph (j)(1) of this section shall apply only to stock of the loss corporation acquired after May 5, 1986, by any first tier entity or higher tier entity and shall not apply to any stock acquired by such an entity on or before that date, 


(B) The rules of paragraph (j)(2) of this section shall apply only to equity structure shifts in which more than one corporation is a party to the reorganization and shall not apply to any other transactions, and 


(C) The rules of paragraph (j)(3) of this section shall apply only to— 


(*1*) Dispositions of stock acquired by an individual, a first tier entity or higher tier entity after May 5, 1986 (and shall not apply to dispositions of stock acquired on or before such date), and 


(*2*) Equity structure shifts in which more than one corporation is a party to the reorganization (and shall not apply to any other transactions).


(ii) *Example.*

(iii) *Rules provided in paragraph (j) of this section for testing dates on or after September 4, 1987.* For purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs for any testing date on or after September 4, 1987, the rules of paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section shall not apply to identify any public group resulting from— 


(A) Any transaction described in such paragraphs (j)(2) and (3), unless that transaction is also described in paragraph (m)(4)(i)(B) or (C) of this section, or 


(B) Any disposition of stock acquired on or before May 5, 1986, but only if such disposition or other transaction occurs before September 4, 1987. Thus, for example, the rules of paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(D) of this section shall apply only to rights to acquire stock of the loss corporation issued on or after such date. 


(iv) *Rules provided in paragraphs (f)(18)(ii) and (iii) of this section.* For purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs for any testing date, the rules of paragraphs (f)(18)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply only to stock (or any other ownership interest) that is— 


(A) Issued on or after September 4, 1987, or 


(B) Transferred to (or by) a person who is a 5-percent shareholder (or would be a 5-percent shareholder if paragraph (f)(18)(iii) of this section were applicable) on or after September 4, 1987. 


(v) *Rules provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.* The information statement required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section is not required to be filed with respect to any taxable year for which the due date (including extensions) of the income tax return of the loss corporation is on or before October 5, 1987. 


(vi) *Rules provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section.* The rules provided in paragraph (h)(4) of this section do not apply on any testing date on or after November 5, 1992. The rule provided in paragraph (h)(4)(viii) of this section applies to the lapse or forfeiture of any option treated as exercised under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section. If an option is treated as exercised under paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, and the option is actually exercised on a day that is within 120 days after the date on which the option is treated as exercised, the rule provided in paragraph (h)(4)(vi)(B) of this section applies (even if the actual exercise of the option occurs on a date on which the rules of paragraph (h)(4) of this section would not otherwise apply). Thus, in such a case, the loss corporation may elect to treat paragraphs (h)(4)(i) and (vi)(A) of this section as not applying to the option and take into account only the acquisition of loss corporation stock resulting from the actual exercise of the option. 


(vii) *Rules provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.* The rules provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section apply to determine whether dates prior to November 5, 1992, are testing dates. For rules regarding the determination of whether dates on or after November 5, 1992, are testing dates, see § 1.382-2(a)(4). 


(5) *Bankruptcy proceedings*—(i) *In general.* In the case of a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(G) or an exchange of debt for stock in a title 11 or similar case (within the meaning of section 368(a)(3)), section 382 shall not apply to any ownership change resulting from such a reorganization or proceeding if a petition in such case was filed with the court before August 14, 1986. Accordingly, any shift in ownership in the loss corporation arising out of such reorganization or proceeding shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining whether an ownership change occurs on any testing date that occurs after December 31, 1986. 


(ii) *Example.*

(6) *Transactions of domestic building and loan associations.* The rules of paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B) of this section (and the application of those rules by virtue of paragraph (j)(3) of this section) shall not apply to a public offering of stock by a domestic building and loan association described in section 591 (or any corporation that owns stock in the association meeting the requirements of section 1504(a)(2)) prior to January 1, 1989. In the case of any transaction described in the preceding sentence, any transitory ownership of stock by any entity that is an underwriter shall be disregarded so that the rules of paragraph (j)(1) of this section shall not apply to treat such stock as owned by the owners of the underwriter and thus the rules of paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to the disposition of such stock by the underwriter. For purposes of this paragraph (m)(7)— 


(i) Ownership shall be considered transitory only with respect to an underwriter acquiring stock in a firm commitment underwriting to the extent the stock is disposed of pursuant to the offer (but in no event later than sixty (60) days after the initial offering) and,


(ii) To the extent a transaction may be described both by paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B) of this section and any other provision of paragraph (j)(2)(iii) or (3) of this section, paragraph (j)(2)(v)(A) of this section shall not apply and the transaction shall be treated as described solely by paragraph (j)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. 


(7) *Transactions not subject to section 382*—(i) *Application of old section 382.* Old section 382 shall not apply to a loss corporation on or after the date on which an ownership change occurs, but only if such ownership change results in the application of the section 382 limitation (as defined in section 382(b)) with respect to the loss corporation. 


(ii) *Effect on testing period.* The application of old section 382 to a transaction is disregarded for purposes of paragraph (d)(2) of this section unless the transaction that results in such application is the last component of an ownership change after May 5, 1986 that is not subject to section 382 under the effective date rules of this paragraph (m) (*e.g.,* an ownership change occurring as the result of an individual's purchase of more than 50 percent of L stock on any date on or before December 31, 1986). 


(iii) *Termination of old section 382.* [Reserved]


(8) *Options issued or transferred before January 1, 1987*—(i) *Options issued before May 6, 1986.* An option issued before May 6, 1986, is subject to the rules of paragraph (h)(4) of this section only if it is transferred by (or to) a 5-percent shareholder (or a person who would be a 5-percent shareholder if the option were treated as exercised) on or after such date. In all other cases, such an option shall not be subject to paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, but shall be subject to paragraph (h)(4)(xii) of this section. Thus, for example, a warrant to acquire stock of the loss corporation issued before May 6, 1986 shall not be subject to paragraph (h)(4) of this section unless the warrant is transferred by (or to) a 5-percent shareholder. The exercise of such a warrant, however, would be taken into account as required by this paragraph (m)(8)(i) and paragraph (h)(4)(xii) of this section. 


(ii) *Options issued on or after May 6, 1986 and before September 18, 1986.* An option issued or transferred on or after May 6, 1986, and before September 18, 1986, is subject to the rules of paragraph (h)(4) of this section. 


(iii) *Options issued on or after September 18, 1986 and before January 1, 1987.* An option issued or transferred on or after September 18, 1986, and before January 1, 1987, is subject to the rules of paragraph (h)(4) of this section, except that the option shall be treated for purposes of this section as if it never had been issued in the event that either— 


(A) The option lapses unexercised or is irrevocably forfeited by the holder thereof, or 


(B) On the date the option was issued, there was no significant likelihood that such option would be exercised within the five-year period from the date of such issuance and a purpose for the issuance of the option was to cause an ownership change prior to January 1, 1987. 


(9) *Examples.* The rules of this paragraph (m) may be illustrated by the following examples.



---

[N] [T.D. 8149, 52 FR 29675, Aug. 11, 1987]


