# § 1049.5   Exercise of arrest authority—General guidelines.

(a) In making an arrest, and before taking a person into custody, the Protective Force Officer should:


(1) Announce the Protective Force Officer's authority (*e.g.,* by identifying himself as an SPR Protective Force Officer); 


(2) State that the suspect is under arrest; and


(3) Inform the suspect of the crime for which the suspect is being arrested. If the circumstances are such that making these announcements would be useless or dangerous to the Officer or to another person, the Protective Force Officer may dispense with these announcements.


(b) At the time and place of arrest, the Protective Force Officer may search the person arrested for weapons and criminal evidence, and may search the area into which the person arrested might reach to obtain a weapon to destroy evidence.


(c) After the arrest is effected, the person arrested shall be advised of his constitutional right against self-incrimination (“*Miranda* warnings”). If the circumstances are such that immediately advising the person arrested of this right would result in imminent danger to the Officer or other persons, the Protective Force Officer may postpone this requirement. The person arrested shall be advised of this right as soon as practicable after the imminent danger has passed. 


(d) As soon as practicable after the arrest is effected, custody of the person arrested should be transferred to other Federal law enforcement personnel (*e.g.,* U.S. Marshals or FBI agents) or to local law enforcement personnel, as appropriate, in order to ensure that the person is brought before a magistrate without unnecessary delay. 


(e) Ordinarily, the person arrested shall not be questioned or required to sign written statements unless such questioning is: 


(1) Necessary to establish the identity of the person arrested and the purpose for which such person is within or upon the SPR; 


(2) Necessary to avert an immediate threat to security or safety (*e.g.,* to locate a bomb); or 


(3) Authorized by other Federal law enforcement personnel or local law enforcement personnel responsible for investigating the alleged crime. 




