# § 153.3   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this subpart:


*Air Operations Area (AOA)* means a portion of an airport, specified in the airport security program, in which security measures specified in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations are carried out. This area includes aircraft movement areas, aircraft parking areas, loading ramps, and safety areas, for use by aircraft regulated under 49 CFR parts 1542, 1544, and 1546, and any adjacent areas (such as general aviation areas) that are not separated by adequate security systems, measures, or procedures. This area does not include the secured area.


*Airport* means any public-use airport, including heliports, as defined in 49 U.S.C. 47102, including:


(1) A public airport; or


(2) A privately-owned airport used or intended to be used for public purposes that is—


(i) A reliever airport; or


(ii) Determined by the Secretary to have at least 2,500 passenger boardings each year and to receive scheduled passenger aircraft service.


*Aviation Safety Inspector* means a properly credentialed individual who bears FAA Form 110A and is authorized under the provisions of 49 U.S.C. 40113 to perform inspections and investigations.


*FAA Form 110A* means the credentials issued to qualified Aviation Safety Inspectors by the FAA for use in the performance of official duties.


*Secured area* means a portion of an airport, specified in the airport security program, in which certain security measures specified in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations are carried out. This area is where aircraft operators and foreign air carriers that have a security program under 49 CFR part 1544 or part 1546 enplane and deplane passengers and sort and load baggage and any adjacent areas that are not separated by adequate security systems, measures, or procedures.


*Security Identification Display Area (SIDA)* means a portion of an airport, specified in the airport security program, in which security measures specified in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations are carried out. This area includes the secured area and may include other areas of the airport.




