# § 334.145   Curtis Creek and Arundel Cove, U.S. Coast Guard Yard, Baltimore; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* All of the navigable waters of Curtis Creek extending approximately 120 meters from the high-water mark of the United States Coast Guard facility, bounded by these coordinates (including the Arundel Cove): Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 39°12′05.8″ N, longitude 076°34′28.4″ W; thence to latitude 39°12′04.8″ N, longitude 076′34′32″ W; thence to latitude 39°11′59″ N, longitude 076°34′28″ W; thence to latitude 39°11′44.8″ N, longitude 076°34′25″ W; thence to latitude 39°11′44.5″ N, longitude 076°34′07″ W; and thence along the shoreline to the point of origin. The datum for these coordinates is NAD-83.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The restricted area as described in paragraph (a) of this section is only open to government vessels. Government vessels include, but are not limited to, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary, Department of Defense, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, state and local law enforcement, emergency services and vessels under contract with the U.S. Government. Vessels transiting the restricted area shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay. Fishing, crabbing, trawling, net-fishing and other aquatic activities are prohibited without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Yard or his/her designated representative. The Coast Guard will install warning signs along the shoreline notifying individuals of the restricted area and prohibiting all unauthorized entry into the area along the property boundary.


(2) All persons, vessels and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, drifting, dredging or anchoring within the restricted area as described in paragraph (a) of this section without prior approval from the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Yard or his/her designated representative.


(3) The restrictions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, seven days a week.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Yard or such persons or agencies he/she may designate.



---

[N] [84 FR 64204, Nov. 21, 2019]






