# § 905.316   Procurement and contract requirements.

(a) *General.* PHAs shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, and HUD implementing instructions, for all capital activities including modernization and development, except as provided in paragraph (c) in this section.


(b) *Contracts.* The PHA shall use all contract forms prescribed by HUD. If a form is not prescribed, the PHA may use any Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved form that contains all applicable federal requirements and contract clauses.


(c) *Mixed-finance development projects.* Mixed-finance development partners may be selected in accordance with 24 CFR 905.604(h). Contracts and other agreements with mixed-finance development partners must specify that they comply with the requirements of §§ 905.602 and 905.604 of this part.


(d) *Assurances of completion.* Notwithstanding 24 CFR 85.36 (as revised April 1, 2013), for each construction contract over $100,000, the contractor shall furnish the PHA with the following:


(1) A bid guarantee from each bidder, equivalent to 5 percent of the bid price; and


(2) One of the following:


(i) A performance bond and payment bond for 100 percent of the contract price;


(ii) A performance bond and a payment bond, each for 50 percent or more of the contract price;


(iii) A 20 percent cash escrow;


(iv) A 10 percent irrevocable letter of credit with terms acceptable to HUD, or


(v) Any other payment method acceptable to HUD.


(e) *Procurement of recovered materials.* PHAs that are state agencies and agencies of a political subdivision of a state that are using assistance under this part for procurement, and any person contracting with such PHAs with respect to work performed under an assisted contract, must comply with the requirements of section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. In accordance with section 6002, these agencies and persons must procure items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered material practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired in the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000; must procure solid waste management services in a manner that promotes energy and resource recovery; and must have established an affirmative procurement program for procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.



---

[N] [78 FR 63770, Oct. 24, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 75942, Dec. 7, 2015]




