# § 60.110b   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 cubic meters (m
3) that is used to store volatile organic liquids (VOL) for which construction, reconstruction, or modification is commenced after July 23, 1984, and on or before October 4, 2023. 


(b) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels with a capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3 storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 3.5 kilopascals (kPa) or with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 but less than 151 m
3 storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 15.0 kPa. 


(c) [Reserved] 


(d) This subpart does not apply to the following:


(1) Vessels at coke oven by-product plants.


(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa and without emissions to the atmosphere.


(3) Vessels permanently attached to mobile vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.


(4) Vessels with a design capacity less than or equal to 1,589.874 m
3 used for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer.


(5) Vessels located at bulk gasoline plants.


(6) Storage vessels located at gasoline service stations.


(7) Vessels used to store beverage alcohol.


(8) Vessels subject to subpart GGGG of 40 CFR part 63. 


(e) *Alternative means of compliance*—(1) *Option to comply with part 65.* Owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b for storage vessels that are subject to this subpart that meet the specifications in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, the monitoring requirements of § 60.116b(c), (e), (f)(1), and (g) still apply. Other provisions applying to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1. 


(i) A storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3 containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa; or 


(ii) A storage vessel with a design capacity greater than 75 m
3 but less than 151 m
3 containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa. 


(2) *Part 60, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for those storage vessels. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(2) do not apply to owners or operators of storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A. 


(3) *Internal floating roof report.* If an owner or operator installs an internal floating roof and, at initial startup, chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, a report shall be furnished to the Administrator stating that the control equipment meets the specifications of 40 CFR 65.43. This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by 40 CFR 65.5(b). 


(4) *External floating roof report.* If an owner or operator installs an external floating roof and, at initial startup, chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, a report shall be furnished to the Administrator stating that the control equipment meets the specifications of 40 CFR 65.44. This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by 40 CFR 65.5(b).


(5) *Option to comply with part 63, subpart WW, of this chapter.* Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b for storage vessels either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3 containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa, or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 but less than 151 m
3 containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa.


(i) The general provisions in subpart A of this part apply instead of the general provisions in subpart A of part 63 of this chapter.


(ii) Where terms are defined in both this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, the definitions in this subpart apply.


(iii) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, also must comply with the monitoring requirements of § 60.116b(a), (c), (e), and (f)(1), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) The reference to all records applies only to the records required by § 60.116b(c);


(B) The reference to § 60.116b(b) does not apply; and


(C) The reference to § 60.116b(g) does not apply.


(iv) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, must also keep records and furnish reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iv)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) For each affected facility, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator at least 30 days before the first inspection is conducted under 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW. After this notification is submitted to the Administrator, the owner or operator must continue to comply with the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) until the owner or operator submits another notification to the Administrator indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b instead of the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5). The compliance schedule for events does not reset upon switching between compliance with this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.


(B) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(1) of this chapter.


(C) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(2) of this chapter.


(D) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 60.115b(a) and (b) that have not met the 2-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 60.115b must be kept for an additional 2 years after the date of submittal of the inspection notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.


(E) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 63.1065 of this chapter that have not met the 5-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 63.1065 must be kept for an additional 5 years after the date of submittal of the notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b.


(F) The following exceptions to the reporting requirements of § 63.1066 of this chapter apply:


(*1*) The notification of initial startup required under § 63.1066(a)(1) and (2) of this chapter must be submitted as an attachment to the notification required by §§ 60.7(a)(3) and 60.115b(a)(1);


(*2*) The reference in § 63.1066(b)(2) of this chapter to periodic reports “when inspection failures occur” means to submit inspections results within 60 days of the initial gap measurements required by § 63.1063(c)(2)(i) of this chapter and within 30 days of all other inspections required by § 63.1063(c)(1) and (2) of this chapter.



---

[N] [52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 32973, Aug. 11, 1989; 65 FR 78275, Dec. 14, 2000; 68 FR 59332, Oct. 15, 2003; 86 FR 5019, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 83317, Oct. 15, 2024]




