# § 71.2   Definitions.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, the definitions set forth in part 59 of this subchapter are applicable to this part.


(b) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an area identified as being in the Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS) both as of October 18, 1982, and as of November 16, 1990, is “new construction” unless it meets the following criteria:


(1)(i) A legally valid building permit or equivalent documentation was obtained for the construction of such structure prior to October 18, 1982; and


(ii) The start of construction (see part 59) took place prior to October 18, 1982; *or*

(2)(i) A legally valid building permit or equivalent documentation was obtained for the construction of such structure prior to October 1, 1983; and


(ii) The structure constituted an insurable building, having walls and a roof permanently in place no later than October 1, 1983.


(c) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an area newly identified as being in the CBRS as of November 16, 1990, is “new construction” unless it meets the following criteria:


(1) A legally valid building permit or equivalent documentation was obtained for the construction of such structure prior to November 16, 1990; and


(2) The start of construction (see 44 CFR part 59) took place prior to November 16, 1990.


(d) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an “otherwise protected area” is “new construction” unless it meets the following criteria:


(1)(i) A legally valid building permit or equivalent documentation was obtained for the construction of such structure prior to November 16, 1990; and


(ii) The start of construction took place prior to November 16, 1990; or


(2)(i) A legally valid building permit or equivalent documentation was obtained for the construction of such structure prior to November 16, 1991; and


(ii) The structure constituted an insurable building, having walls and a roof permanently in place, no later than November 16, 1991.


(e) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an area identified as being in the CBRS both as of October 18, 1982, and as of November 16, 1990, is a “substantial improvement” if the substantial improvement (see 44 CFR part 59) of such structure took place on or after October 1, 1983.


(f) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an area newly identified as being in the CBRS as of November 16, 1990, is a “substantial improvement” if the substantial improvement of such structure took place on or after November 16, 1990.


(g) For the purpose of this part, a structure located in an “otherwise protected area” is a “substantial improvement” if the substantial improvement of such structure took place after November 16, 1991.


(h) For the purpose of this part, a *policy of flood insurance* means a policy issued pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended. This includes a policy issued directly by the Federal Government as well as by a private sector insurance company under the Write Your Own Program as authorized by 44 CFR part 62.


(i) For the purpose of this part, *new policy of flood insurance* means a policy of flood insurance other than one issued by an insurer (Write Your Own insurer or the Federal Government as the direct insurer) effective upon the expiration of a prior policy of flood insurance issued by the same insurer without any lapse in coverage between these two policies.


(j) For the purpose of this part, *new flood insurance coverage* means a new or renewed policy of flood insurance.


(k) For the purpose of this part, *otherwise protected area* means an undeveloped coastal barrier within the boundaries of an area established under Federal, State, or local law, or held by a qualified organization, primarily for wildlife refuge, sanctuary, recreational, or natural resource conservation purposes and identified and depicted on the maps referred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, as amended by the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990, as an area that is:


(1) Not within the CBRS and


(2) In an “otherwise protected area.”



---

[N] [48 FR 37039, Aug. 16, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 33879, Aug. 27, 1984; 57 FR 22661, May 29, 1992]




