# ยง 615.5131   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Asset-backed securities (ABS)* mean investment securities that provide for ownership of a fractional undivided interest or collateral interests in specific assets of a trust that are sold and traded in the capital markets. For the purposes of this subpart, ABS exclude mortgage-backed securities that are defined in this section.


*Asset class* means a group of securities that exhibit similar characteristics and behave similarly in the marketplace. Asset classes include, but are not limited to, money market instruments, municipal securities, corporate bond securities, MBS, ABS, and any other asset class as determined by FCA.


*Country risk classification (CRC)* as defined in ยง 628.2 of this chapter.


*Diversified investment fund (DIF)* means an investment company registered under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940.


*Government-sponsored enterprise (GSE)* means an entity established or chartered by the United States Government to serve public purposes specified by the United States Congress but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States Government.


*Loans* are defined by ยง 621.2 of this chapter and they are calculated quarterly (as of the last day of March, June, September, and December) by using the average daily balance of loans during the quarter.


*Market risk* means the risk to the financial condition of your institution because the value of your holdings may decline if interest rates or market prices change. Exposure to market risk is measured by assessing the effect of changing rates and prices on either the earnings or economic value of an individual instrument, a portfolio, or the entire institution.


*Mortgage-backed securities* (MBS) means securities that are either:


(1) Pass-through securities or participation certificates that represent ownership of a fractional undivided interest in a specified pool of residential (excluding home equity loans), multifamily or commercial mortgages; or


(2) A multiclass security (including collateralized mortgage obligations and real estate mortgage investment conduits) that is backed by a pool of residential, multifamily or commercial real estate mortgages, pass through MBS, or other multiclass MBSs.


*Obligor* means an issuer, guarantor, or other person or entity who has an obligation to pay a debt, including interest due, by a specified date or when payment is demanded.


*Resecuritization* as defined in ยง 628.2 of this chapter.


*Sponsor* means a person or entity that initiates a transaction by selling or pledging to a specially created issuing entity, such as a trust, a group of financial assets that the sponsor either has originated itself or has purchased.


*United States (U.S.) Government agency* means an instrumentality of the U.S. Government whose obligations are fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government.


*You* means a Farm Credit bank, association, or service corporation.



---

[N] [64 FR 28895, May 28, 1999, as amended at 70 FR 51589, Aug. 31, 2005; 77 FR 66370, Nov. 5, 2012; 83 FR 27499, June 12, 2018; 85 FR 52253, Aug. 25, 2020]




