# § 5.40   Change in location of a main office of a national bank or home office of a Federal savings association.

(a) *Authority.* 12 U.S.C. 30, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1828, 2901-2907, and 5412(b)(2)(B).


(b) *Scope.* This section describes OCC procedures and approval standards for an application or a notice by a national bank to change the location of its main office or by a Federal savings association to change the location of its home office.
3 A national bank or Federal savings association must follow the procedures described in paragraph (c) of this section to relocate its main office or home office, as applicable.


(c) *Licensing requirements and procedures*—(1) *Main office or home office relocation to an authorized branch location within city, town, or village limits.* A national bank or Federal savings association may change the location of its main office or home office, as applicable, to an authorized branch location (approved or existing branch site) within the limits of the same city, town, or village. The national bank or Federal savings association must give prior notice to the appropriate OCC licensing office before the relocation. The notice must include the new address of the main office or home office, as applicable, and the effective date of the relocation.


(2) *To any other location*—(i) *National banks.* A national bank must submit an application to the appropriate OCC licensing office and obtain prior OCC approval to relocate its main office to any other location in the city, town, or village in which the main office of the bank is located other than an authorized branch location or to any other location within 30 miles of the limits of such city, town, or village. If relocating the main office outside the limits of its city, town, or village, a national bank must also obtain the approval of shareholders owning two-thirds of the voting stock of the bank and must amend its articles of association.


(ii) *Federal savings associations.* A Federal savings association must submit an application to the appropriate OCC licensing office and obtain prior OCC approval to relocate its home office to any location other than an authorized branch location within the city, town, or village in which the home office of the savings association is located. If relocating the home office outside the limits of its city, town, or village, a Federal savings association must obtain any shareholder or member approval required under its charter for such relocation and must amend its charter.


(3) *Establishment of a branch at site of former main office or home office.* A national bank or Federal savings association desiring to establish a branch at its former main office or home office location, as applicable, must follow the provisions of § 5.30 or § 5.31, respectively.


(4) *Expedited review.* A main office or home office relocation application submitted by an eligible bank or eligible savings association under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is deemed approved by the OCC as of the 15th day after the close of the public comment period or the 45th day after the filing is received by the OCC (or in the case of a short-distance relocation the 30th day after the filing is received by the OCC), whichever is later, unless the OCC notifies the bank or savings association prior to that time that the filing has been removed from expedited review, or the expedited review period is extended, under § 5.13(a)(2).


(5) *Exceptions to rules of general applicability.* (i) Sections 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, and 5.11 do not apply to a main office or home office relocation to an authorized branch location within the limits of the city, town, or village as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. However, if the OCC concludes that the notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section presents a significant or novel policy, supervisory, or legal issue, the OCC may determine that any or all parts of §§ 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, and 5.11 apply.


(ii) The comment period on any application filed under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to engage in a short-distance relocation of a main office or home office is 15 days.


(d) *Expiration of approval.* Approval expires if the national bank or Federal savings association has not opened its main office or home office, as applicable, at the relocated site within 18 months of the date of approval, unless the OCC grants an extension.



---

[N] [80 FR 28452, May 18, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 80462, Dec. 11, 2020]




