# § 147.2500   State-administered program.

The UIC program for Class I, II, III, IV, and V wells in the State of Wisconsin, other than those on Indian lands as described in § 147.2510, is the program administered by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, approved by EPA pursuant to SDWA section 1422. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on September 30, 1983 (48 FR 44783); the effective date of this program is November 30, 1983. This program consists of a prohibition of all injection wells except heat pump return flow injection wells and may be found in the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Wisconsin. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the OFR in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained at the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, Box 7921, Madison, Wisconsin, 53707. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region V, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois, 60604, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Wisconsin Statutes Annotated §§ 147.015, 147.02 and 147.04 (West 1974 and Supp. 1983); 


(2) Chapter NR 112, Well Construction and Pump Installation, Wisconsin Administrative Code §§ NR 112.03 and 112.20 (October 1981), as amended by Natural Resources Board Order No. WQ-25-82, approved by the Natural Resources Board on August 25, 1982; 


(3) Chapter NR 113, Servicing Septic Tanks, Seepage Pits, Grease Traps or Privies, Wisconsin Administrative Code §§ NR 113.07-113.08 (1979), as amended by Natural Resources Board Order No. WQ-25-82, approved by the Wisconsin Natural Resources Board on August 25, 1982; 


(4) Chapter NR 181, Hazardous Waste Management, Wisconsin Administrative Code §§ NR 181.04-181.415 (1981), as amended June 1985; 


(5) Chapter NR 210, Sewage Treatment Works, Wisconsin Administrative Code § 210.05 Natural Resources Board Order No. WQ-25-82, approved by the Wisconsin Natural Resources Board on August 25, 1982; 


(6) Chapter NR 214, Land Application and Disposal of Liquid Industrial Wastes and By-Products, Wisconsin Administrative Code §§ 214.03 and 214.08 (1983). 


(b) *Other laws.* The following statutes and regulations, although not incorporated by reference except for select sections identified in paragraph (a) of this section, are also part of the approved State-administered program: 


(1) Chapter 144, Water, Sewage, Refuse, Mining and Air Pollution, Wisconsin Statutes Annotated (West 1974 and Supp. 1983); 


(2) Chapter 147, Pollution Discharge Elimination, Wisconsin Statutes Annotated (West 1974 and Supp. 1983); 


(3) Chapter 162, Pure Drinking Water, Wisconsin Statutes Annotated (West 1974 and Supp. 1983); 


(4) Laws of 1981, Chapter 20, § 2038 (Re: heat pump injection); 


(5) Wisconsin Statutes 803.09(1) (West 1977) (intervention as of right in civil actions). 


(c) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region V and the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, signed by the Regional Administrator on December 6, 1983. 


(d) *Statement of legal authority.* (1) “Attorney General's Statement,” signed by Attorney General, State of Wisconsin; 


(2) Letter from Assistant Attorney General, State of Wisconsin, to EPA Region, “Re: Amendments to Attorney General's Statement-UIC,” June 30, 1983. 


(e) *Program Description.* The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto. 



---

[N] [49 FR 45309, Nov. 15, 1984, as amended at 56 FR 9420, Mar. 6, 1991; 56 FR 14150, Apr. 5, 1991; 62 FR 1834, Jan. 14, 1997]




