# § 3282.252   Prohibition of sale.

(a) No distributor or retailer shall make use of any means of transportation affecting interstate or foreign commerce or the mails to sell, lease, or offer for sale or lease in the United States any manufactured home manufactured on or after the effective date of an applicable standard unless: 


(1) There is affixed to the manufactured home a label certifying that the manufactured home conforms to applicable standards as required by § 3282.205(c), and 


(2) The distributor or retailer, acting as a reasonable distributor or retailer, does not know that the manufactured home does not conform to any applicable standards. 


(b) This prohibition applies to any affected manufactured homes until the completion of the entire sales transaction. A sales transaction with a purchaser is considered completed when all the goods and services that the retailer agreed to provide at the time the contract was entered into have been provided. Completion of a retail sale will be at the time the retailer completes installation of the manufactured home, if the retailer has agreed to provide the installation, or at the time the retailer delivers the home to a transporter, if the retailer has not agreed to transport or install the manufactured home. The sale is also complete upon delivery to the site if the retailer has not agreed to provide installation as completion of sale, except that any sale or lease under subpart M and as provided in § 3286.117(a) will not be considered complete until the purchaser or lessor, as applicable, has been provided with a final site inspection report.


(c) This prohibition of sale does not apply to manufactured homes which are placed in production prior to the effective date of the standards, and it does not apply to “used” manufactured homes which are being sold or offered for sale after the first purchase in good faith for purposes other than the resale. 



---

[N] [41 FR 19852, May 13, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 53727, Sept. 8, 2015]




