# § 4022.9   Time of payment; benefit applications and corrections.

(a) *Time of payment.* A participant may start receiving an annuity benefit from the PBGC (subject to the PBGC's rules for starting benefit payments) on his or her Earliest PBGC Retirement Date as determined under § 4022.10 of this subchapter or, if later, the plan's termination date. 


(b) *Elections and consents.* The PBGC may prescribe the time and manner for benefit elections to be made and spousal consents to be provided. 


(c) *Benefit applications.* The PBGC is not required to accept any application for benefits not made in accordance with its forms and instructions.


(d) *Benefit corrections.* PBGC may prescribe the time and manner for corrections of errors that affect benefit form and benefit starting dates and for changes in benefit form to mitigate the consequences of a Presidentially declared disaster.


(e) *Filing with the PBGC*—(1) *Method and date of filing.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart A of part 4000 of this chapter to determine permissible methods of filing with the PBGC under this part. Benefit applications and related submissions are treated as filed on the date received by the PBGC unless the instructions for the applicable form provide for an earlier date. Subpart C of part 4000 of this chapter provides rules for determining when the PBGC receives a submission. 


(2) *Where to file.* See § 4000.4 of this chapter for information on where to file. 


(3) *Computation of time.* The PBGC applies the rules in subpart D of part 4000 of this chapter to compute any time period for filing under this part.



---

[N] [67 FR 16955, Apr. 8, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 61353, Oct. 28, 2003; 88 FR 44052, July 11, 2023]




