# § 23.73   How can I trade internationally in timber?

(a) *U.S. and foreign general provisions*: In addition to the requirements of this section, the import, export, or re-export of timber species listed under CITES must meet the other requirements of this part (see subparts B and C for prohibitions and application procedures).


(b) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to parts, products, and derivatives that appear in the annotations to certain timber species in the CITES Appendices. These definitions are based on the tariff classifications of the Harmonized System of the World Customs Organization.


(1) *Logs* means all wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark or sapwood, or roughly squared for processing, notably into sawn wood, pulpwood, or veneer sheets.


(2) *Sawn wood* means wood simply sawn lengthwise or produced by a profile-chipping process. Sawn wood normally exceeds 6 mm in thickness.


(3) *Veneer sheets* means thin layers or sheets of wood of uniform thickness, usually 6 mm or less, usually peeled or sliced, for use in making plywood, veneer furniture, veneer containers, or similar products.


(4) *Plywood means* wood material consisting of three or more sheets of wood glued and pressed one on the other and generally disposed so that the grains of successive layers are at an angle.


(c) The following exceptions apply to Appendix-II or -III timber species that have a substantive annotation that designates either logs, sawn wood, and veneer sheets, or logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, and plywood:


(1) *Change in destination.* When a shipment of timber destined for one country is redirected to another, the Management Authority in the country of import may change the name and address of the importer indicated on the CITES document under the following conditions:


(i) The quantity imported is the same as the quantity certified by a stamp or seal and authorized signature of the Management Authority on the CITES document at the time of export or re-export.


(ii) The number of the bill of lading for the shipment is on the CITES document, and the bill of lading is presented at the time of import.


(iii) The import takes place before the CITES document expires, and the period of validity has not been extended.


(iv) The Management Authority of the importing country includes the following statement in block 5, or an equivalent place, of the CITES document: “Import into [name of country] permitted in accordance with [cite the appropriate section number from the current permit and certificate resolution] on [date].” The modification is certified with an official stamp and signature.


(v) The Management Authority sends a copy of the amended CITES document to the country of export or re-export and the Secretariat.


(2) *Extension of CITES document validity.* A Management Authority in the country of import may extend the validity of an export permit or re-export certificate beyond the normal maximum of 6 months after the date of issue under the following conditions:


(i) The shipment has arrived in the port of final destination before the CITES document expires, is being held in customs bond, and is not considered imported.


(ii) The time extension does not exceed 6 months from the date of expiration of the CITES document and no previous extension has been issued.


(iii) The Management Authority has included in block 5, or an equivalent place, of the CITES document the date of arrival and the new date of expiration on the document, and certified the modification with an official stamp and signature.


(iv) The shipment is imported into the country from the port where the Management Authority issued the extension and before the amended CITES document expires.


(v) The Management Authority sends a copy of the amended CITES document to the country of export or re-export and to the Secretariat.




