# ยง 337.101   Rating applicants.

(a) OPM shall prescribe the relative weights to be given subjects in an examination, and shall assign numerical ratings on a scale of 100. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each applicant who meets the minimum requirements for entrance to an examination and is rated 70 or more in the examination is eligible for appointment.


(b) OPM shall add to the earned numerical ratings of applicants who make a passing grade: 


(1) Five points for applicants who are preference eligibles under section 2108(3)(A) and (B) of title 5, United States Code; and 


(2) Ten points for applicants who are preference eligibles under section 2108(3)(C)-(G) of that title. 


(c) When experience is a factor in determining eligibility, OPM shall credit a preference eligible with: 


(1) Time spent in the military service (i) as an extension of time spent in the position in which he was employed immediately before his entrance into the military service, or (ii) on the basis of actual duties performed in the military service, or (iii) as a combination of both methods. OPM shall credit time spent in the military service according to the method that will be of most benefit to the preference eligible. 


(2) All valuable experience, including experience gained in religious, civic, welfare, service, and organizational activities, regardless of whether pay was received therefor. 



---

[N] [33 FR 12423, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 72 FR 12954, Mar. 20, 2007] 




