# § 502.1   Authority and scope.

(a) *Authority for this part.* This part is pursuant to Section 1078 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, Public Law 112-239, as codified in 22 U.S.C. 1461, 1461-1a and the U.S. International Broadcasting Act, 22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.


(b) *Scope.* This part applies to the public and all divisions of the Federal Government supervised by the Broadcasting Board of Governors under the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (collectively “the Agency”). These regulations only cover the procedures for responding to domestic requests for Agency program materials.


(c) *Summary.* (1) The Broadcasting Board of Governors supervises all U.S. non-military international broadcasting activities in accordance with the broadcasting principles and standards in the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994, 22 U.S.C. 6201 et seq., including consistency with the broad foreign policy objectives of the United States.


(2) As stated in the U.S. International Broadcasting Act of 1994, it is the policy of the United States to promote freedom of opinion and expression and to open communication of information and ideas among the people of the world. The Agency has adopted as its mission statement “to inform, engage, and connect people around the world in support of freedom and democracy.”


(3) It is the Agency's policy to make its program materials available, upon request, whenever doing so is consistent with all statutory authorities, prohibitions, principles, and standards. However, the Agency reserves the right to deny requests for program materials under circumstances described in Section 502.7 of this regulation.


(4) Pursuant to section 501 of the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange Act, as amended, as codified in 22 U.S.C. 1461, the Agency may, upon request, provide members of the public, organizations, and media with program materials which the Agency disseminated abroad, in accordance with these regulations.


(5) Pursuant to Section 208 of Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987, as amended, as codified at 22 U.S.C. 1461-1a, the Agency is prohibited from using appropriated funds to influence public opinion in the United States, however, the statute clarifies that the Agency may:


(i) Provide information about its operations, programs, or program materials to the media, the public, or Congress in accordance with applicable law;


(ii) Make program materials available in the Unites States, when appropriate, and in accordance with other applicable law.




