# § 164.018-5   Specifications and standards incorporated by reference.

(a) The following federal and military specifications and standards are incorporated by reference into this subpart:


(1) Federal Specification L-P-375 C (April 23, 1970), entitled “Plastic Film, Flexible, Vinyl Chloride”, as amended by Amendment 2 of December 2, 1976.


(2) Federal Specification L-S-300 B (July 12, 1974), entitled “Sheeting and Tape, Reflective: Nonexposed Lens, Adhesive Backing.”


(3) Federal Specification CCC-C-426 D (August 12, 1970), entitled “Cloth, Drill, Cotton.”


(4) Federal Specification CCC-C-443 E (December 2, 1974), entitled “Cloth, Duck, Cotton (Single and Plied Filling Yarns, Flat).”


(5) Federal Test Method Standard 141a (September 1, 1965), entitled “Paint, Varnish, Lacquer and Related Materials; Methods of Inspection, Sampling and Testing.” (Method 6141 “Washability of Paints”, and Method 6142 “Scrub Resistance” as amended May 1, 1974).


(6) Federal Test Method Standard 370 (March 1, 1977), entitled “Instrumental Photometric Measurements of Retroreflective Materials and Retroreflective Devices.”


(7) Military Specification MIL-C-17415 E (April 16, 1964), entitled “Cloth, Coated, and Webbing, Inflatable Boat and Miscellaneous Use”, as amended by Amendment 5 of April 26, 1976.


(8) Military Specification MIL-R-21607 D (August 5, 1976), entitled “Resins, Polyester, Low Pressure Laminating, Fire-retardant.”


(9) Military Specification MIL-C-43006 E (March 24, 1978), entitled “Cloth and Strip Laminated, Vinyl Nylon High Strength, Flexible.”


(b) The Federal standards may be obtained from the General Services Administration, Federal Acquisition Service, Office of the FAS Commissioner, 2200 Crystal Drive, 11th Floor, Arlington, VA 22202; telephone 703-605-5400. The Military Specifications may be obtained from the Military Specifications and Standards, Standardization Documents Order Desk, Building 4D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, *https://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch/.”* These materials are also on file in the _Federal Register_ library.


(c) Approval to incorporate by reference the materials listed in this section was obtained from the Director of the Federal Register on June 14, 1979.


(d) When changes are made to a specification or standard incorporated by reference into this subpart, the effective date for its use will be the effective date set by the issuing authority unless otherwise determined by the Coast Guard.



---

[N] [CGD 76-028, 44 FR 38786, July 2, 1979, as amended by USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60162, Sept. 30, 2013]




