# § 1065.642   PDP, SSV, and CFV molar flow rate calculations.

This section describes the equations for calculating molar flow rates from various flow meters. After you calibrate a flow meter according to § 1065.640, use the calculations described in this section to calculate flow during an emission test.


(a) *PDP molar flow rate.* (1) Based on the speed at which you operate the PDP for a test interval, select the corresponding slope, *a*_1,_ and intercept, *a*_0,_ as calculated in § 1065.640, to calculate PDP molar flow rate,, as follows:


(2) Calculate *V*_rev_ using the following equation:


(b) *SSV molar flow rate.* Calculate SSV molar flow rate, *n
*, as follows:


Using Eq. 1065.640-7:


Using Eq. 1065.640-6:


Using Eq. 1065.640-5:


(c) *CFV molar flow rate.* If you use multiple venturis and you calibrate each venturi independently to determine a separate discharge coefficient, *C*_d_ (or calibration coefficient, *K*_v_), for each venturi, calculate the individual molar flow rates through each venturi and sum all their flow rates to determine CFV flow rate, *n*. If you use multiple venturis and you calibrated venturis in combination, calculate *n* using the sum of the active venturi throat areas as *A*_t_, the square root of the sum of the squares of the active venturi throat diameters as *d*_t_, and the ratio of the venturi throat to inlet diameters as the ratio of the square root of the sum of the active venturi throat diameters (*d*_t_) to the diameter of the common entrance to all the venturis (*D*).


(1) To calculate *n
* through one venturi or one combination of venturis, use its respective mean C_d_ and other constants you determined according to § 1065.640 and calculate *n
* as follows:


(2) To calculate the molar flow rate through one venturi or a combination of venturis, you may use its respective mean, *K*_v_, and other constants you determined according to § 1065.640 and calculate its molar flow rate *n* during an emission test. Note that if you follow the permissible ranges of dilution air dewpoint versus calibration air dewpoint in Table 3 of § 1065.640, you may set *M*_mix-cal_ and *M*_mix_ equal to 1. Calculate *n* as follows:



---

[N] [81 FR 74177, Oct. 25, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 34557, June 29, 2021]




