# § 11.34   Complaint.

(a) A complaint instituting a disciplinary proceeding shall:


(1) Name the person who is the subject of the complaint who may then be referred to as the “respondent”;


(2) Give a plain and concise description of the respondent's alleged grounds for discipline;


(3) State the place and time, not less than thirty days from the date the complaint is filed, for filing an answer by the respondent;


(4) State that a decision by default may be entered if an answer is not timely filed by the respondent; and


(5) Be signed by the OED Director.


(b) A complaint will be deemed sufficient if it fairly informs the respondent of any grounds for discipline, and where applicable, the USPTO Rules of Professional Conduct that form the basis for the disciplinary proceeding so that the respondent is able to adequately prepare a defense.


(c) The complaint shall be filed in the manner prescribed by the USPTO Director. The term “filed” means the delivery, mailing, or electronic transmission of a document to a hearing officer or designee in connection with a disciplinary complaint or related matter.


(d) *Time for filing a complaint.* A complaint shall be filed within one year after the date on which the OED Director receives a grievance forming the basis of the complaint. No complaint shall be filed more than ten years after the date on which the misconduct forming the basis for the proceeding occurred.


(e) *Tolling agreements.* The one-year period for filing a complaint under paragraph (d) of this section shall be tolled if the involved practitioner and the OED Director agree in writing to such tolling.



---

[N] [73 FR 47689, Aug. 14, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 45251, July 31, 2012; 78 FR 20201, Apr. 3, 2013; 86 FR 28460, May 26, 2021]




