# § 40.253   Destruction.

When a manufacturer of tobacco products desires to destroy tobacco products which have been entered in the factory record as manufactured or received, without salvaging the tobacco, he shall notify the appropriate TTB officer by letter, in duplicate, of the kind and quantity of tobacco products to be destroyed, the intended method of destruction, and the date on which he desires to destroy such products. The appropriate TTB officer may assign an appropriate TTB officer to supervise destruction of the tobacco products or he may authorize the manufacturer to destroy such products without supervision by so stating on a copy of the manufacturer's notice returned to the manufacturer. When so authorized by the appropriate TTB officer, the manufacturer shall destroy the tobacco products by burning completely or by rendering them unfit for consumption. Upon completion of the destruction, the manufacturer shall make an entry of such destruction in his factory record, and where destruction without supervision is authorized, shall record the date and method of destruction on the notice returned to him by the appropriate TTB officer, which notice the manufacturer shall retain. Where the manufacturer intends to file claim for credit, allowance, or refund of tax on such products he shall comply with the provisions of §§ 40.311 and 40.313.



---

[N] [T.D. 6871, 31 FR 37, Jan. 4, 1966. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-232, 51 FR 28082, Aug. 5, 1986; T.D. ATF-243, 51 FR 43194, Dec. 1, 1986]




