# § 1806.23   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart, the following definitions apply: 


(a) *Financial assistance* means any form of direct, insured or guaranteed loan, including reamortization and assumption on new terms of any loan, any form of grant, or other form of direct or indirect assistance extended by the Agency. 


(b) *Financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes* means any form of Federal financial assistance which is intended in whole or in part for the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, or substantial improvement of any building and for any machinery, equipment, fixtures and furnishings contained or to be contained in such buildings. 


(c) *Community means* any state or political subdivision thereof, such as county, parish, township, city or other local government which has zoning and building code jurisdiction over a particular area having special flood hazards. 


(d) *Eligible community* means a community in which the Administrator of FIA has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the program. 


(e) *Designated special flood* or*mudslide prone* area means those areas in a community subject to flood or mudslide which have been identified by flood hazard boundary maps or those areas not identified by maps but where, due to emergency, the FIA Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance. 


(f) *Flood* means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers, or other inland water, the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels, or abnormally high tidal water or rising coastal waters resulting from severe storms, hurricanes, or tidal waves resulting from volcano eruptions or earthquakes. 


(g) *Mudslide* or *mudflow* means a major occurrence involving the appearance of a large river or flow of “liquid mud” down a hillside, usually as a result of earlier brushfires followed by heavy rains over a widespread area. 


(h) *Flood insurance* means insurance coverage for floods and/or mudslides under the program or otherwise acceptable to FIA. 


(i) *Building* means any walled and roofed structure, other than a gas or liquid tank, that is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site. Residential and most types of industrial, commercial, and agricultural buildings, such as lumber sheds, machinery storage sheds, grain storage bins, and silos, are included in this definition. 


(j) *Substantial improvement* means any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the actual cash value of the structure either before the improvement is started or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. 



---

[N] [39 FR 17093, May 13, 1974, as amended at 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]




