# ยง 127.400   How does a concern maintain its WOSB or EDWOSB certification?

Any concern seeking to remain a certified WOSB or EDWOSB must undergo a program examination every three years.


(a) SBA or a third-party certifier will conduct a program examination three years after the concern's initial WOSB or EDWOSB certification (whether by SBA or a third-party certifier) or three years after the date of the concern's last program examination, whichever date is later.


*Example to paragraph (a).* Concern A is certified by SBA to be eligible for the WOSB Program on March 31, 2023. Concern A is considered a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through March 30, 2026. On April 22, 2025, after Concern A is identified as the apparent successful offeror on a WOSB set-aside contract, its status as an eligible WOSB is protested. On May 15, 2025, Concern A receives a positive determination from SBA confirming that it is an eligible WOSB. Concern A's new certification date is May 15, 2025. Concern A is now considered a certified WOSB that is eligible to receive WOSB contracts (as long as it is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract) through May 14, 2028.


(b) The concern must either recertify with SBA or notify SBA that it has completed a program examination from a third party certifier within 90 calendar days of the end of its eligibility period. If a concern fails to so, SBA will decertify the concern at the end of its eligibility period. However, if a concern is able to recertify its eligibility within 30 days of the end of its eligibility period, SBA will reinstate the firm as a certified WOSB or EDWOSB.


(c) The SBA Administrator or designee may postpone the program examination and recertification process in appropriate, extraordinary circumstances.



---

[N] [88 FR 26214, Apr. 27, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 16446, Mar. 7, 2024; 89 FR 102507, Dec. 17, 2024]




