# § 216.15   Depleted species.

The following species or population stocks have been designated by the Assistant Administrator as depleted under the provisions of the MMPA.


(a) Hawaiian monk seal (*Monachus schauinslandi*).


(b) Bowhead whale (*Balaena mysticetus*).


(c) North Pacific fur seal (*Callorhinus ursinus*). Pribilof Island population.


(d) Bottlenose dolphin (*Tursiops truncatus*), coastal-migratory stock along the U.S. mid-Atlantic coast.


(e) Eastern spinner dolphin (*Stenella longirostris orientalis*).


(f) Northeastern offshore spotted dolphin (*Stenella attenuata*).


(g) Cook Inlet, Alaska, stock of beluga whales (*Delphinapterus leucas*). The stock includes all beluga whales occurring in waters of the Gulf of Alaska north of 58° North latitude including, but not limited to, Cook Inlet, Kamishak Bay, Chinitna Bay, Tuxedni Bay, Prince William Sound, Yakutat Bay, Shelikof Strait, and off Kodiak Island and freshwater tributaries to these waters.


(h) Eastern North Pacific Southern Resident stock of killer whales (Orcinus orca). The stock includes all resident killer whales in pods J, K, and L in the waters of, but not limited to, the inland waterways of southern British Columbia and Washington, including the Georgia Strait, the Strait of Juan de Fuca, and Puget Sound.


(i) AT1 stock of killer whales (*Orcinus orca*). The stock includes all killer whales belonging to the AT1 group of transient killer whales occurring primarily in waters of Prince William Sound, Resurrection Bay, and the Kenai Fjords region of Alaska.


(j) Sakhalin Bay-Nikolaya Bay-Amur River beluga whales (*Delphinapterus leucas*). The stock includes all beluga whales primarily occurring in, but not limited to, waters of Sakhalin Bay, Nikolaya Bay, and Amur River in the Sea of Okhotsk.



---

[N] [53 FR 17899, May 18, 1988, as amended at 58 FR 17791, Apr. 6, 1993; 58 FR 45074, Aug. 26, 1993; 58 FR 58297, Nov. 1, 1993; 59 FR 50376, Oct. 3, 1994; 65 FR 34597, May 31, 2000; 68 FR 31983, May 29, 2003; 69 FR 31324, June 3, 2004; 81 FR 74719, Oct. 27, 2016]




