# ยง 82.5   Definitions.

As used in this part, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this section.


(a) *Act* means the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361-1407.


(b) *Cooperative Agreement* means the properly signed documentation, including the Application for Federal Assistance, which describes the project goals, the time schedule for achieving them, the estimated expenses to be incurred and the terms and conditions under which the research will be conducted, the totality of which constitutes the legally binding instrument between the Secretary and the grantee.


(c) *Grantee* means (1) any private person or entity, or (2) any officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the Federal Government, or any state or political subdivision thereof or any foreign government, participating in a cooperative agreement with the Secretary.


(d) *Marine Mammal* means any specimen of the following species, whether alive or dead, or any part thereof, including but not limited to, any raw, dressed, or dyed fur or skin:


(e) *Non-Federal interest* means any organization, association, institution, business, school, individual or group of individuals, state agency, municipality, or others outside the Federal Government which desires to participate within the terms of the Act.


(f) *Project* means any program for which an Application for Federal Assistance and a cooperative agreement have been approved and which provides for research in subjects which are relevant to the protection and conservation of marine mammals.


(g) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his delegated representative.


(h) *State* means the several states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone, the possessions of the United States, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.


(i) *State agency* means any department(s), commission(s), or officials(s), of a state empowered under its laws to administer the state program for marine mammals.




