# § 4.2   Requirements as to form, and filing of documents other than correspondence.

(a) *Filing.* (1) All paper and electronic documents filed with the Commission or with an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to part 0, part 1, part 2, or part 3 of this chapter shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, except that:


(i) Documents produced in response to compulsory process issued pursuant to part 2 or part 3 of this chapter shall instead be produced to the custodian, deputy custodian, or other person prescribed therein, and in the manner prescribed therein; and


(ii) Comments filed in response to a Commission request for public comment shall instead be filed in the manner prescribed in the _Federal Register_ document or other Commission document containing the request for such comment.


(iii) Petitions for rulemaking and petitions for exemptions from rules shall instead be filed in the manner prescribed in § 1.31 of this chapter.


(2) All paper and electronic documents filed with the Commission pursuant to parts 4-999 of this chapter shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, except as otherwise provided in such part.


(b) *Title and public or nonpublic status.* All paper and electronic documents filed with the Commission or with an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to any part of this chapter shall clearly show the file or docket number and title of the action in connection with which they are filed. Every page of each such document shall be clearly and accurately labeled “Public”, *“In Camera”* or “Confidential”.


(c) *Paper and electronic copies of filings before the Commission or an Administrative Law Judge in adjudicative proceedings under part 3 of this chapter.* (1) Each document filed in an adjudicative proceeding under part 3, except documents covered by § 4.2(a)(1)(i), shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, shall be in 12-point font with 1-inch margins, and shall comply with the requirements of §§ 4.2(b) and (f) and 4.3(d). Documents may be filed with the Office of the Secretary either electronically or in hard copy.


(i) Documents may be filed electronically by using the Office of the Secretary's electronic filing system and complying with the Secretary's directions for using that system. Documents filed electronically shall be in Adobe portable document format or such other format as the Secretary may direct.


(ii) Documents filed in hard copy shall include a paper original, one paper copy, and an electronic copy in Adobe portable document format or such other format as the Secretary shall direct.


(2) If the document is labeled “*In Camera*” or “Confidential”, it must include as an attachment either a motion requesting *in camera* or other confidential treatment, in the form prescribed by § 3.45 of this chapter, or a copy of a Commission, Administrative Law Judge, or federal court order granting such treatment. The document must also include as a separate attachment a set of only those pages of the document on which the *in camera* or otherwise confidential material appears and comply with all other requirements of § 3.45 and any other applicable rules governing *in camera* treatment. A document labeled “*In Camera”* or “Confidential” may be filed electronically using the electronic filing system.


(3) Sensitive personal information, as defined in § 3.45(b) of this chapter, shall not be included in, and must be redacted or omitted from, filings where the filing party determines that such information is not relevant or otherwise necessary for the conduct of the proceeding.


(4) A copy of each document filed in accordance with this section in an adjudicative proceeding under part 3 of this chapter shall be served by the party filing the document or person acting for that party on all other parties pursuant to § 4.4, at or before the time the original is filed.


(d) *Other documents filed with the Commission.* (1) Each document filed with the Commission, and not covered by § 4.2(a)(1)(i) or (ii) or § 4.2(c), shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, and shall be clearly and accurately labeled as required by § 4.2(b).


(2) Each such document shall be signed and shall comply with the requirements of § 4.2(f). Documents filed under this paragraph (d) shall include a paper original, one paper copy, and an electronic copy in Adobe portable document format, unless the Secretary shall otherwise direct.


(3) Each such document labeled “Public” may be placed on the public record of the Commission at the time it is filed.


(4) If such a document is labeled “Confidential”, and it is filed pursuant to § 2.10(a), § 2.41(f), or § 2.51 of this chapter, it will be rejected for filing pursuant to § 4.2(g), and will not stay compliance with any applicable obligation imposed by the Commission or the Commission staff, unless the filer simultaneously files:


(i) An explicit request for confidential treatment that includes the factual and legal basis for the request, identifies the specific portions of the document to be withheld from the public record, provides the name and address of the person(s) who should be notified in the event the Commission determines to disclose some or all of the material labeled “Confidential”, and otherwise conforms to the requirements of § 4.9(c); and


(ii) A redacted public version of the document that is clearly labeled “Public”.


(e) *Form.* Paper documents filed with the Secretary of the Commission shall be printed, typewritten, or otherwise processed in permanent form and on good unglazed paper. A motion or other document filed in an adjudicative proceeding under part 3 of this chapter shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the case, the docket number, and a brief descriptive title indicating the purpose of the document.


(f) *Signature.* (1) The original of each document filed shall be signed by an attorney of record for the filing party, or in the case of parties not represented by counsel, by the party itself, or by a partner if a partnership, or by an officer of the party if it is a corporation or an unincorporated association. For documents filed electronically using the Office of the Secretary's electronic filing system, documents must be signed using a scanned signature image, an “s/” followed by the name of the filer using the electronic filing system, or another signature method as the Secretary may direct.


(2) Signing a document constitutes a representation by the signer that he or she has read it; that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief, the statements made in it are true; that it is not interposed for delay; and that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief, it complies with the rules in this part. If a document is not signed or is signed with intent to defeat the purpose of this section, it may be stricken as sham and false and the proceeding may go forward as though the document had not been filed.


(g) *Authority to reject documents for filing.* The Secretary of the Commission may reject a document for filing that fails to comply with the Commission's rules. In cases of extreme hardship, the Secretary may excuse compliance with a rule regarding the filing of documents if the Secretary determines that the non-compliance would not interfere with the functions of the Commission.



---

[N] [74 FR 1835, Jan. 13, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 20209, May 1, 2009; 76 FR 52253, Aug. 22, 2011; 77 FR 59311, Sept. 27, 2012; 80 FR 25941, May 6, 2015; 86 FR 59853, Oct. 29, 2021]




