# ยง 33.9   Amount of award.

(a) *Lost fishing time.* Compensation is limited to 50 percent of the gross income lost as a direct result of the seizure and detention, based on the value of the average catch-per-day's fishing during the three most recent calendar years immediately preceding the seizure as determined by the Secretary, based on catch rates on comparable vessels in comparable fisheries. The compensable period for cases of seizure and detention not resulting in vessels confiscation is limited to the elapsed time from seizure to the time after release when the vessel could reasonably be expected to return to the point of seizure. The compensable period in cases where the vessel is confiscated is limited to the elapsed time from seizure through the date of confiscation, plus an additional period to purchase a replacement vessel and return to the point of seizure. In no case can the additional period exceed 120 days.


(1) Compensation for confiscation of vessels, where no buy-back has occurred, will be based on market value which will be determined by averaging estimates of market value obtained from as many vessel surveyors or brokers as the Secretary deems practicable;


(2) Compensation for capital equipment other than vessel, will be based on depreciated replacement cost;


(3) Compensation for expendable items and crew's belongings will be 50 percent of their replacement costs; and


(4) Compensation for confiscated catch will be for full value, based on the price-per-pound.


(b) *Fuel expense.* Compensation for fuel expenses will be based on the purchase price, the time required to run to and from the fishing grounds, the detention time in port, and the documented fuel consumption of the vessel.


(c) *Stolen or confiscated property.* If the claimant was required to buy back confiscated property from the foreign country, the claimant may apply for reimbursement of such charges under section 3 of the Act. Any other property confiscated is reimbursable from this Guaranty Fund. Confiscated property is divided into the following categories:


(1) Compensation for confiscation of vessels, where no buy-back has occurred, will be based on market value which will be determined by averaging estimates of market value obtained from as many vessel surveyors or brokers as the Secretary deems practicable;


(2) Compensation for capital equipment other than a vessel, will be based on depreciated replacement cost;


(3) Compensation for expendable items and crew's belongings will be 50 percent of their replacement cost; and


(4) Compensation for confiscated catch will be for full value, based on the price-per-pound.


(d) *Insurance proceeds.* No payments will be made from the Fund for losses covered by any policy of insurance or other provisions of law.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Appeals.* All determinations under this section are final and are not subject to arbitration or appeal.




