# § 2.801   What terms do I need to know for this subpart?

*Account holder* means a Tribe or a person who owns the funds in a Tribal or Individual Indian Money (IIM) account that is maintained by the Secretary.


*Appeal of the Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Appeal”)* means your appeal of the decision-maker's decision.


*Basis of Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Basis of Objection”)* means the documentation you submit supporting your Objection to the Statement of Performance.


*BTFA* means the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration.


*BTFA's Ruling* means the ruling issued by Director, BTFA on your Appeal of the decision-maker's decision.


*Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Decision”)* means the decision-maker's decision on your Objection to the Statement of Performance.


*Decision-maker* means the Director, Office of Trust Analysis and Research within the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration who reviews your Objection to the Statement of Performance.


*Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Objection”)* means the document you submit to the decision-maker, alleging errors in your Statement of Performance.


*Reviewing official* means the Director, BTFA.


*Statement of Performance (SOP)* means the document that is issued to each account holder that identifies:


(1) The source, type, and status of the funds;


(2) The beginning balance;


(3) The gains and losses;


(4) Receipts and disbursements; and


(5) The ending balance.






