# ยง 1203.13   Filing pleadings.

(a) *How to file.* A request for regulation review must be filed with the Office of the Clerk, U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board, 1615 M Street NW, Washington, DC 20419. In addition, parties to a proceeding under this part must serve their pleadings on each other in accordance with ยง 1203.14 of this part. The Office of the Clerk will make all pleadings available for review by the public, including by posting the pleadings to the Board's website.


(b) *Time limits.* (1) A request for regulation review may be filed any time after the effective date of the regulation.


(2) A response to a request for regulation review, whether the response supports or opposes the request, must be filed within the time period provided in the Board order granting the request for review.


(3) A reply to a response may be filed within 10 days after the response is filed. The reply may address only those matters raised in the response that were not addressed in the request for regulation review.


(4) Motions may be filed at any time during the regulation review. The filing of a motion will not delay the acting of the Board unless the Board orders a postponement. The Board may rule immediately on a motion for an extension of time or a continuance if circumstances make consideration of others' views regarding the motion impracticable.


(5) Submissions opposing motions must be filed within five days after the opposing party receives the motion.


(c) *Additional pleadings.* The Board will consider pleadings in addition to those mentioned above only if the Board requests them, or if it grants a request that it consider them.


(d) *Method and date of filing.* An initial filing in a request for review and other pleadings may be filed with the Office of the Clerk by mail, by commercial or personal delivery, by facsimile, or by e-filing in accordance with ยง 1201.14 of this chapter. If the document was submitted by certified mail, it is considered to have been filed on the mailing date. If it was submitted by regular mail, it is presumed to have been filed five days before the Office of the Clerk receives it, in the absence of evidence contradicting that presumption. If it was delivered personally, it is considered to have been filed on the date the Office of the Clerk receives it. If it was submitted by facsimile, the date of the facsimile is considered to be the filing date. If it was submitted by commercial delivery, the date of filing is the date it was delivered to the commercial delivery service. If it was submitted by e-filing, it is considered to have been filed on the date of electronic submission.


(e) *Extensions of time.* The Board will grant a request for extension of time only when good cause is shown.



---

[N] [54 FR 23632, June 21, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 65242, Dec. 19, 1994; 65 FR 48885, Aug. 10, 2000; 68 FR 59864, Oct. 20, 2003; 69 FR 57631, Sept. 27, 2004; 89 FR 72966, Sept. 9, 2024]




