# ยง 212.60   What requirements apply to the laboratories where I test components, in-process materials, and finished PET drug products?

(a) *Testing procedures.* Each laboratory used to conduct testing of components, in-process materials, and finished PET drug products must have and follow written procedures for the conduct of each test and for the documentation of the results.


(b) *Specifications and standards.* Each laboratory must have sampling and testing procedures designed to ensure that components, in-process materials, and PET drug products conform to appropriate standards, including established standards of identity, strength, quality, and purity.


(c) *Analytical methods.* Laboratory analytical methods must be suitable for their intended use and must be sufficiently sensitive, specific, accurate, and reproducible.


(d) *Materials.* The identity, purity, and quality of reagents, solutions, and supplies used in testing procedures must be adequately controlled. All solutions that you prepare must be properly labeled to show their identity and expiration date.


(e) *Equipment.* All equipment used to perform the testing must be suitable for its intended purposes and capable of producing valid results.


(f) *Equipment maintenance.* Each laboratory must have and follow written procedures to ensure that equipment is routinely calibrated, inspected, checked, and maintained, and that these activities are documented.


(g) *Test records.* Each laboratory performing tests related to the production of a PET drug must keep complete records of all tests performed to ensure compliance with established specifications and standards, including examinations and assays, as follows:


(1) A suitable identification of the sample received for testing.


(2) A description of each method used in the testing of the sample, a record of all calculations performed in connection with each test, and a statement of the weight or measurement of the sample used for each test.


(3) A complete record of all data obtained in the course of each test, including the date and time the test was conducted, and all graphs, charts, and spectra from laboratory instrumentation, properly identified to show the specific component, in-process material, or drug product for each lot tested.


(4) A statement of the results of tests and how the results compare with established acceptance criteria.


(5) The initials or signature of the person performing the test and the date on which the test was performed.




