# § 1005.809   Claim types.

HUD recognizes five different claim types. The Servicer must submit a claim based upon the type of property disposition. The Servicer shall submit claims within timeframes established below or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance. The Claim types are:


(a) *Conveyance.* When the property is deeded to HUD through foreclosure:


(1) The Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) to HUD no later than 2 business days from the date the deed to HUD is executed.


(2)(i) *Fee simple land.* The claim must include the final title policy evidencing HUD's ownership through foreclosure or transfer of the ownership of the property through deed-in-lieu to HUD, in accordance with § 1005.817.


(ii) *Trust Land.* The claim must include a certified Title Status Report evidencing HUD's property interest through foreclosure.


(3) In cases where the Servicer is unable to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the Servicer shall submit the claim pending the certified Title Status Report in accordance with the time frame specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(4) Servicers must submit claims under § 1005.807(b) no later than 15 days following the submission of a claim under § 1005.807(a).


(b) *Assignment of the loan.* When the Holder assigns the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD:


(1) The Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) no later than 45 days from the date of the assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD is executed.


(2)(i) *Trust Land.* The claim must include the recorded assignment and a certified Title Status Report evidencing the assignment of the mortgage to HUD.


(ii) *Fee simple land.* The claim must include the final title policy providing coverage through the transfer of the mortgage to HUD.


(3) In cases where the Servicer is unable to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Servicer shall submit the claim pending the certified Title Status Report in accordance with the time frame specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(4) At the time of assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, the Servicer shall certify to HUD that:


(i) *Priority of Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.* The Section 184 Guaranteed Loan has priority over all judgments, mechanics' and materialmen's liens, or any other liens, regardless of when such liens attached, unless approved by HUD;


(ii) *Amount due.* The amount reported to HUD in accordance with § 1005.707(d) prior to assignment is verified to be due and owing under the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan;


(iii) *Offsets or counterclaims and authority to assign.* There are no offsets or counterclaims thereto and the Holder has the authority to assign; and


(iv) The assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan to HUD meets the requirements of § 1005.765.


(c) *Post-foreclosure claims without conveyance of title.* When a third-party purchases the property at foreclosure, the Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) to HUD no later than 30 days from the date the property is conveyed to the third-party. If the Holder purchases the property at foreclosure and subsequently sells the property, the Servicer may submit a claim under this section.


(d) *Pre-foreclosure sale, deed-in-lieu or lease-in-lieu.* When a property is sold or conveyed prior to foreclosure in accordance with § 1005.753 or § 1005.755, the Servicer must submit a claim under § 1005.807(a) and (b) to HUD no later than 30 days from the date the sale or conveyance is executed.


(e) *Supplemental claim.* The Servicer shall be limited to one supplemental claim for each Claim under submission categories in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(1) The supplemental claim shall be limited to:


(i) Reasonable eligible expenses incurred up to the date of conveyance of the property or assignment of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan, when invoices are received after the payment of the claim under § 1005.807(b); or


(ii) Calculation error(s) made by either the Servicer or HUD.


(2) Supplemental claims must be submitted within six months of the claim submission under § 1005.807(b). Supplemental claims received after six months of the claim submission will not be reviewed or paid by HUD.


(3) Any supplemental claim paid by HUD shall be considered final satisfaction of the Loan Guarantee Certificate.




