# § 160.010-3   Inflatable buoyant apparatus.

(a) *Design and performance.* To obtain Coast Guard approval, an inflatable buoyant apparatus must comply with subpart 160.151, with the following exceptions:


(1) *Canopy requirements (IMO LSA Code, Chapter IV/4.1.1.5 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.010-1 of this subpart)).* It does not need a canopy.


(2) *Capacity (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.1.2.1).* The carrying capacity must be not less than four persons.


(3) *Floor insulation (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.2.2).* The floor may be uninsulated.


(4) *Stability (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.5.4).* It does not need stability pockets.


(5) *Righting (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.5.2).* A reversible one does not need arrangements for righting.


(6) One with a capacity of 13 or more persons must be reversible, with the floor arranged between the buoyancy chambers so that the apparatus can, floating either side up, accommodate the number of persons for which it is approved. One with a capacity of 12 or fewer persons must either be reversible in the same manner, or be designed so that it can be readily righted by one person.


(7) One with a capacity of 25 or more persons must be provided with self-bailing floor drains. If the floor of a reversible one includes one or more drains, each drain must be arranged to completely drain the floor of water when the device is fully loaded, and must prevent water from flowing back onto the floor.


(8) If the buoyancy tubes are not vivid reddish orange, vivid yellow, or a fluorescent color of a similar hue, panels of such hue must be secured to the buoyancy chambers so that a minimum of 1 m
2 (11 ft
2) is visible from above the apparatus when it is floating either side up.


(9) *Boarding ramp (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.4.1).* Boarding ramps are not required if the combined cross-section diameter of the buoyancy chambers is 500 millimeters (mm) (19.5 in.) or less. An apparatus with a combined cross-section diameter greater than 500 mm (19.5 in.) requires boarding ramps as follows:


(i) For an apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons, at least one ramp must be provided;


(ii) For an apparatus with a capacity of 25 or more persons, at least two ramps must be provided; and


(iii) The boarding ramps required by this paragraph must allow persons to board with either side of a reversible apparatus floating up, or the full number of ramps required must be installed on each side.


(10) *Boarding ladder (IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.4.2).* Boarding ladders must be provided on each inflatable buoyant apparatus as follows:


(i) One ladder must be provided on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons, except that, for an apparatus with a capacity of 13 or more persons that is not equipped with a boarding ramp, two ladders must be provided.


(ii) Two ladders must be provided on each apparatus with a capacity of 25 or more persons.


(iii) The ladders required by this paragraph must allow persons to board with either side of a reversible apparatus floating up, or the full number of ladders required must be installed on each side.


(11) One or more exterior canopy lamps meeting the requirements of 46 CFR 160.151-15(n) must be provided such that—


(i) On a non-reversible inflatable buoyant apparatus, one lamp is mounted so that it is on the uppermost surface of the floating apparatus; and


(ii) On a reversible apparatus, two lamps are mounted so that one lamp is on the uppermost surface of the apparatus, whichever side is floating up.


(12) *Equipment.* All equipment required by this paragraph must be either packed in a container accessible to the occupants, or otherwise secured to the apparatus. Duplicate equipment must be provided, for each side of a reversible inflatable buoyant apparatus, if the equipment is not accessible from both sides. In lieu of the equipment specified in § 160.151-7(b) and (IMO LSA Code, Chapter IV/4.1.5), each apparatus must be provided with—


(i) *Rescue quoit and heaving line.* One rescue quoit and a heaving line as described in § 160.151-21(a) on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons; or two on each apparatus for a capacity of 25 or more persons. The heaving line(s) must be mounted adjacent to a boarding ramp (or boarding ladder, if no ramps are installed), and ready for immediate use;


(ii) *Knives.* One knife, of a type designed to minimize the chance of damage to the inflatable buoyant apparatus and secured with a lanyard ready for use near the painter attachment. Any knife may be replaced with a jackknife meeting the requirements in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(16). In addition, an inflatable buoyant apparatus that is permitted to accommodate 13 persons or more must be provided with a second knife that is of the non-folding type;




(iii) *Bailer.* One bailer as described in § 160.151-21(c) on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons; or two bailers on each apparatus with a capacity of 25 or more persons, except that no bailers are necessary if both sides of the floor of a reversible apparatus are equipped with drains;


(iv) *Sponge.* One sponge as described in § 160.151-21(d) on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons, or two sponges on each apparatus with a capacity of 25 or more persons;


(v) *Paddles.* Two paddles as described in § 160.151-21(f) on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons, or four paddles on each apparatus with a capacity of 25 or more persons;


(vi) *Flashlight.* One flashlight with spare batteries as described in § 160.151-21(m);


(vii) *Signaling mirror.* One signaling mirror as described in § 160.151-21(o);


(viii) *Repair outfit.* One set of sealing clamps or plugs as described in § 160.151-21(y)(1);


(ix) *Pump or bellows.* One pump or bellows as described in § 160.151-21(z); and


(x) *Sea anchor.* One sea anchor as described in § 160.151-21(e), attached so as to be readily deployable when the apparatus inflates.


(13) *Marking and labeling.* Marking and labeling of inflatable buoyant apparatus must be in accordance with the requirements of § 160.151-33, as well as IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.6.3 and 4.2.7.1.6, except that the device must be identified as an “INFLATABLE BUOYANT APPARATUS”, and no “SOLAS” markings shall be placed on the container of the apparatus. The capacity marking specified in IMO LSA Code, chapter IV/4.2.7.1.6 must be applied to the top of each buoyancy tube.


(14) *Drop test.* The drop test required under paragraph 1/5.1 of IMO Revised recommendation on testing (incorporated by reference, see § 160.010-1 of this subpart) and § 160.151-27(a) may be from a lesser height, if that height is the maximum height of stowage marked on the container.


(15) *Loading and seating test.* For the loading and seating test required under paragraph 1/5.7 of IMO Revised recommendation on testing and § 160.151-27(a), the loaded freeboard of the apparatus must be not less than 200 mm (8 in.).


(16) *Cold-inflation test.* The cold-inflation test required under paragraph 1/5.17.3.3.2 of IMO Revised recommendation on testing and § 160.151-27(a) must be conducted at a test temperature of −18 °C (0 °F).


(b) *Production inspections and tests.* Production inspections and tests for inflatable buoyant apparatus must be performed in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 160.151-31.


(c) *Servicing.* Inflatable buoyant apparatus must be serviced periodically at approved servicing facilities in accordance with the applicable requirements of §§ 160.151-35 through 160.151-57.


(d) *Instruction placard.* An instruction placard meeting the requirements of § 160.151-59(c), giving simple procedures and illustrations for inflating, launching, and boarding the inflatable buoyant apparatus, must be made available to the operator or master of each vessel on which the apparatus is to be carried.


(e) *Requirements for “open reversible liferafts” Annex 11 to IMO Res. MSC.97(73).* To be approved as meeting the requirements for open reversible liferafts in Annex 11 to IMO Res. MSC.97(73), an inflatable buoyant apparatus must meet all of the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, with the following exceptions:


(1) The apparatus must be reversible regardless of size.


(2) The surface of the buoyancy tubes must be of a non-slip material. At least 25 percent of the surface of the buoyancy tubes must meet the color requirements of § 160.151-15(e).


(3) The length of the painter should be such that the apparatus inflates automatically upon reaching the water.


(4) An additional bowsing-in line must be fitted to an apparatus with a capacity of more than 30 persons.


(5) The apparatus must be fitted with boarding ramps regardless of size.


(6) An apparatus with a capacity of 30 or fewer persons must be fitted with at least one floor drain.


(7) In addition to the equipment specified in § 160.010-3(a)(12), the apparatus must be provided with—


(i) *Sponge.* One additional sponge as described in § 160.151-21(d) on each apparatus with a capacity of less than 25 persons;


(ii) *First-aid kit.* A first-aid kit as described in 46 CFR 199.175(b)(10);




(iii) *Whistle.* A ball-type or multi-tone whistle of corrosion-resistant construction;


(iv) *Hand flares.* Two hand flares approved by the Commandant under approval series 160.121.


(8) Marking and labeling of the apparatus must be in accordance with § 160.151-33, except that the device must be identified as a “NON-SOLAS REVERSIBLE”, and the equipment pack must be identified as an “HSC Pack”.


(9) *Stability.* It must be fitted with stability pockets, in accordance with IMO LSA Code Chapter IV/4.2.5.4.



---

[N] [CGD 85-205, 62 FR 25545, May 9, 1997, as amended by USCG-2010-0048, 76 FR 62974, Oct. 11, 2011; USCG-2020-0107, 87 FR 68304, Nov. 14, 2022]




