# § 80.1458   Storage of renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate prior to registration.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) A renewable fuel producer may store renewable fuel for the generation of RINs prior to EPA acceptance of their registration under § 80.1450(b) if all the requirements of this section are met.


(2) An RNG producer may store RNG prior to EPA acceptance of their registration under § 80.135 if all the requirements of this section are met.


(3) A biointermediate producer may store biointermediate (including biogas used to produce a biogas-derived renewable fuel) prior to EPA acceptance of their registration under § 80.1450(b) if all the requirements of this section are met.


(b) *Storage requirements.* In order for a renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate producer to store renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate under this section, the producer must do the following:


(1) Produce the stored renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate after an independent third-party engineer has conducted an engineering review for the renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate production facility under § 80.1450(b)(2).


(2) Produce the stored renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate in accordance with all applicable requirements under this part.


(3) Make no change to the facility after the independent third-party engineer completed the engineering review.


(4) Store the renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate at the facility that produced the renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate.


(5) Maintain custody and title to the stored renewable fuel, RNG, or biointermediate until EPA accepts the producer's registration under § 80.1450(b).


(c) *RIN generation.* (1) A RIN generator may only generate RINs for stored renewable fuel, stored RNG, or renewable fuel produced from stored biointermediate if the RIN generator generates the RINs under §§ 80.125, 80.1426, and 80.1452, as applicable, after EPA accepts their registration under § 80.1450(b) and meets all other applicable requirements under this part for RIN generation.


(2) The RIN year of any RINs generated for stored renewable fuel, stored RNG, or renewable fuel produced from stored biointermediate is the year that the renewable fuel or RNG was produced.


(d) *Limitations.* RNG injected into a natural gas commercial pipeline system prior to EPA acceptance of a renewable fuel producer's registration under § 80.135 does not meet the requirements of this section and may not be stored.



---

[N] [88 FR 44590, July 12, 2023]




