# § 372.107   Definitions.

As used in the regulations in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning shown:


(a) *Cooperative association.* The term “cooperative association” means an association which conforms to the following definition in the Agricultural Marketing Act, approved June 15, 1929, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1141j):


(b) *Federation of cooperative associations.* The term “federation of cooperative associations” means a federation composed of either two or more cooperative associations, or one or more farmers, which federation possesses no greater powers or purposes than a cooperative association as defined in paragraph (a) of this section. Federations of cooperative associations which do not conform to such definition are not eligible to operate under the partial exemption of 49 U.S.C. 13506(a)(5).


(c) *Member.* The term “member” means any farmer or cooperative association which has consented to be, has been accepted as, and is a member in good standing in accordance with the constitution, bylaws, or rules of the cooperative association or federation of cooperative associations.


(d) *Farmer.* The term “farmer” means any individual, partnership, corporation, or other business entity to the extent engaged in farming operations either as a producer of agricultural commodities or as a farm owner.


(e) *Interstate transportation.* The term “interstate transportation” means transportation by motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce subject to the FMCSA's jurisdiction as set forth in 49 U.S.C. 13501.


(f) *Member transportation.* The term “member transportation” means transportation performed by a cooperative association or federation of cooperative associations for itself or for its members, but does not include transportation performed in furtherance of the nonfarm business of such members.


(g) *Nonmember transportation.* The term “nonmember transportation” means transportation performed by a cooperative association or federation of cooperative associations other than member transportation as defined in paragraph (f) of this section.


(h) *Fiscal year.* The term “fiscal year” means the annual accounting period adopted by the cooperative association or federation of cooperative associations for Federal income tax reporting purposes.


(i) *Recreational activities.* The term “recreational activities” means activities consisting of an outdoor experience or excursion typically of a physical or athletic nature which require transportation for the sole purpose of moving customers to another location or locations where the outdoor experience or excursion will take place and collecting those customers to transport them back to the place of initial boarding or another outpost of the motor carrier. Recreational activities include but are not limited to hiking, biking, horseback riding, canoeing, whitewater rafting, water trails, tubing, skiing, snowshoeing, snowmobiling, hunting, fishing, mountain climbing, swimming, and off-highway vehicle driving and riding. The term does not include any activity:


(1) for which the activity offered or sold is occurring simultaneously with the transportation; or


(2) for which the transportation is the primary service offered for sale.



---

[N] [43 FR 2397, Jan. 17, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 45524, July 3, 1980; 47 FR 13353, Mar. 30, 1982; 47 FR 15142, Apr. 8, 1982; 66 FR 49870, Oct. 1, 2001; 89 FR 13997, Feb. 26, 2024]




