# § 7.21   John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway.

(a)(1) *What is the scope of this section?* The regulations contained in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(17) of this section apply to the use of snowcoaches and recreational snowmobiles. Except where indicated, paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(15) do not apply to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(2) *What terms do I need to know?* The definitions in this paragraph (a)(2) also apply to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, and other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


*Commercial guide* means a guide who operates a snowmobile or snowcoach for a fee or compensation and is authorized to operate in the park under a concession contract. In this section, “guide” also means “commercial guide.”


*Historic snowcoach* means a Bombardier snowcoach manufactured in 1983 or earlier. Any other snowcoach is considered a non-historic snowcoach.


*Oversnow route* means that portion of the unplowed roadway located between the road shoulders and designated by snow poles or other poles, ropes, fencing, or signs erected to regulate oversnow activity. Oversnow routes include pullouts or parking areas that are groomed or marked similarly to roadways and are adjacent to designated oversnow routes. An oversnow route may also be distinguished by the interior boundaries of the berm created by the packing and grooming of the unplowed roadway. The only motorized vehicles permitted on oversnow routes are oversnow vehicles.


*Oversnow vehicle* means a snowmobile, snowcoach, or other motorized vehicle that is intended for travel primarily on snow and has been authorized by the Superintendent to operate in the park. An oversnow vehicle that does not meet the definition of a snowcoach must comply with all requirements applicable to snowmobiles.


*Snowcoach* means a self-propelled mass transit vehicle intended for travel on snow, having a curb weight of over 1,000 pounds (450 kilograms), driven by a track or tracks and steered by skis or tracks, and having a capacity of at least 8 passengers. A snowcoach has a maximum size of 102 inches wide, plus tracks (not to exceed 110 inches overall); a maximum length of 35 feet; and a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR) not exceeding 25,000 pounds.


*Snowmobile* means a self-propelled vehicle intended for travel on snow, with a curb weight of not more than 1,000 pounds (450 kg), driven by a track or tracks in contact with the snow, and which may be steered by a ski or skis in contact with the snow.


*Snowplane* means a self-propelled vehicle intended for oversnow travel and driven by an air-displacing propeller.


(3) *May I operate a snowmobile in the Parkway?* You may operate a snowmobile in the Parkway in compliance with use limits, guiding requirements, operating hours and dates, equipment, and operating conditions established under this section. The Superintendent may establish additional operating conditions and will provide notice of those conditions in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this chapter or in the _Federal Register._

(4) *May I operate a snowcoach in the Parkway?* Snowcoaches may only be operated in the Parkway under a concessions contract. Snowcoach operation is subject to the conditions stated in the concessions contract and all other conditions identified in this section.


(5) *Where may I operate my snowmobile in the Parkway?* (i) You may operate your snowmobile only upon designated oversnow routes established within the Parkway in accordance with § 2.18(c) of this chapter. The following oversnow routes are so designated for snowmobile use:


(A) On U.S. Highway 89/191/287 from Flagg Ranch to the northern boundary of the Parkway.


(B) Grassy Lake Road from Flagg Ranch to the western boundary of the Parkway.


(C) Flagg Ranch developed area.


(ii) The Superintendent may open or close these routes, or portions thereof, for snowmobile travel after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, and other factors. The Superintendent will provide notice of such opening or closing by one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(iii) The route described in paragraph (a)(5)(i)(A) of this section is subject to the air and sound emissions requirements, guiding requirements, and daily entry limits described in § 7.13(l) of this part.


(iv) This paragraph (a)(5) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(v) Maps detailing the designated oversnow routes will be available from Park Headquarters.


(6) *What routes are designated for snowcoach use?* (i) Authorized snowcoaches may only be operated on the routes designated for snowmobile use in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) and (C) of this section. No other routes are open to snowcoach use, except as provided in (a)(6)(ii) of this section.


(ii) The Superintendent may open or close these oversnow routes, or portions thereof, or designate new routes for snowcoach travel after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, and other factors. The Superintendent will provide notice of such opening or closing by one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(iii) The routes described in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section are subject to the air and sound emissions requirements and daily entry limits in § 7.13(l) of this part.


(iv) This paragraph (a)(6) also applies to non-administrative snowcoach use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(7) *Must I travel with a commercial guide while snowmobiling in the Parkway?* Except as may be required under paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, you are not required to use a guide while snowmobiling in the Parkway.


(8) *Are there limits established for the numbers of snowmobiles and snowcoaches permitted to operate in the Parkway each day?* (i) A limit of 25 snowmobiles per day applies to the Grassy Lake Road.


(ii) The daily entry limits for snowmobiles and snowcoaches on the route from Flagg Ranch to the South Entrance of Yellowstone are established in § 7.13(l) of this part.


(9) *When may I operate my snowmobile or snowcoach?* The Superintendent will determine operating hours and dates. Except for emergency situations, any changes to operating hours will be made on an annual basis and the public will be notified of those changes through one or more of the methods listed in § 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(10) *What other conditions apply to the operation of oversnow vehicles?* (i) The following are prohibited:


(A) Idling an oversnow vehicle more than 5 minutes at any one time.


(B) Driving an oversnow vehicle while the operator's motor vehicle license or privilege is suspended or revoked.


(C) Allowing or permitting an unlicensed driver to operate an oversnow vehicle.


(D) Driving an oversnow vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons, property, or parkway resources or otherwise in a reckless manner.


(E) Operating an oversnow vehicle without a lighted white headlamp and red taillight.


(F) Operating an oversnow vehicle that does not have brakes in good working order.


(G) Towing persons on skis, sleds or other sliding devices by oversnow vehicles, except in emergency situations.


(ii) The following are required:


(A) All oversnow vehicles that stop on designated routes must pull over to the far right and next to the snow berm. Pullouts must be used where available and accessible. Oversnow vehicles may not be stopped in a hazardous location or where the view might be obscured, or operated so slowly as to interfere with the normal flow of traffic.


(B) Oversnow vehicle drivers must possess a valid motor vehicle driver's license. A learner's permit does not satisfy this requirement. The license must be carried by the driver at all times.


(C) Equipment sleds towed by a snowmobile must be pulled behind the snowmobile and fastened to the snowmobile with a rigid hitching mechanism.


(D) Snowmobiles must be properly registered and display a valid registration from the United States or Canada.


(iii) The Superintendent may impose other terms and conditions as necessary to protect park resources, visitors, or employees. The Superintendent will notify the public of any changes through one or more methods listed in § 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(iv) This paragraph (a)(10) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(11) *What conditions apply to alcohol use while operating an oversnow vehicle?* In addition to 36 CFR 4.23, the following conditions apply:


(i) Operating or being in actual physical control of an oversnow vehicle is prohibited when the driver is under 21 years of age and the alcohol concentration in the driver's blood or breath is 0.02 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 0.02 grams or more of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.


(ii) Operating or being in actual physical control of an oversnow vehicle is prohibited when the driver is a snowmobile guide or a snowcoach driver and the alcohol concentration in the operator's blood or breath is 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.


(iii) This paragraph (a)(11) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(12) *Do other NPS regulations apply to the use of oversnow vehicles?* (i) The use of oversnow vehicles in the Parkway is subject to § 2.18(a), (b), and (c), but not to §§ 2.18(d), (e), and 2.19(b) of this chapter.


(ii) This paragraph (a)(12) also applies to non-administrative oversnow vehicle use by NPS, contractor, or concessioner employees, or other non-recreational users authorized by the Superintendent.


(13) *Are there any forms of non-motorized oversnow transportation allowed in the Parkway?* (i) Non-motorized travel consisting of skiing, skating, snowshoeing, or walking is permitted unless otherwise restricted under this section or other NPS regulations.


(ii) The Superintendent may designate areas of the Parkway as closed, reopen such areas, or establish terms and conditions for non-motorized travel within the Parkway in order to protect visitors, employees, or park resources. Notice will be made in accordance with § 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(14) *May I operate a snowplane in the Parkway?* The operation of a snowplane in the Parkway is prohibited.


(15) *Is violating any of the provisions of this section prohibited?* (i) Violating any of the terms, conditions or requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(14) of this section is prohibited.


(ii) Anyone who violates any of the terms, conditions or requirements of this regulation will be considered to have committed one separate offense for each term, condition or requirement that they violate.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [74 FR 60190, Nov. 20, 2009]




