# ยง 171.33   Final decision by the Commission.

(a) *Opinion and order.* Upon review, the Commission may affirm, modify, set aside, or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, the decision of the National Futures Association. The Commission's decision will be contained in its opinion and order which will be based upon the record before it, including the record of the registered futures association proceeding, briefs submitted to the Commission by the parties and any oral argument made in accordance with ยง 171.32. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the opinion and order will constitute the final decision of the Commission, effective upon service on the parties. In the event the Commission is equally divided as to its decision, the decision of the National Futures Association shall be affirmed without a Commission opinion. 


(b) *Order of summary affirmance.* If the Commission finds that the result reached in the decision of the National Futures Association is substantially correct and that none of the arguments on appeal made by the appellant raise important questions of law or policy, the Commission may, by appropriate order, summarily affirm the decision without opinion. The decision of the National Futures Association shall constitute the Commission's final decision, effective upon service. Unless the Commission expressly indicates otherwise in its order, an order of summary affirmance does not reflect a Commission determination to adopt the rationale of the National Futures Association, and neither the order of summary affirmance nor the underlying order shall serve as Commission precedent in other proceedings.




