# ยง 21.146   Independent instructor course.

(a) *Definition.* An independent instructor course is a full-time course of vocational training which the veteran pursues with an individual instructor, who, independently of a training institution or on-job training establishment, furnishes and conducts a vocational course at a suitable place of training. 


(b) *Limitations on including an independent instructor course in a rehabilitation plan.* A veteran and his or her case manager may include an independent instructor course in a rehabilitation plan, other than one involving a farm cooperative program, only when either or both of the following conditions exist:


(1) Training is not available through an established school, on-job training establishment, rehabilitation facility or sheltered workshop within a reasonable commuting distance from the veteran's home; or


(2) The veteran's condition or other circumstances do not permit the veteran to attend an otherwise suitable facility within commuting distance. See ยง 21.126.


(c) *Training in the home.* Training in the home is a specialized type of independent instructor course which the veteran pursues in his or her home if:


(1) He or she is unable to pursue training at an otherwise suitable facility because of the effects of his or her disability;


(2) Based on proper medical opinion, the veteran is able to pursue the prescribed training; and


(3) The veteran's home provides a favorable educational environment with adequate work and study space. 


(d) *Planning an individual instructor course.* The case manager, the veteran, and the instructor should jointly plan the training program for a veteran for whom an independent instructor course is prescribed. 


(e) *Assuring employment.* Since the customary channels leading to employment may not be readily available to a veteran requiring an individual instructor course, the IEAP (Individual Employment Assistance Plan) shall indicate thorough consideration of plans and prospects for seeking and obtaining employment, including self-employment, upon completion of training. 


(f) *Rate of pursuit.* A veteran in an independent instructor program shall pursue training at a rate comparable to the rate at which similar training is pursued on an institutional basis, unless the veteran's work tolerance is reduced by the effects of his or her disability.


