# § 1.955A-3   Election as to qualified investments by related persons.

(a) *In general.* If a United States shareholder elects the benefits of section 955(b) 2 with respect to a related group (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of controlled foreign corporations, then an investment in foreign base company shipping operation made by one member of such group will be treated as having been made by another member to the extent provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and each member will be subject to the other provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. An election once made shall apply for the taxable year for which it is made and for all subsequent years unless the election is revoked or a new election is made to add one or more controlled foreign corporations to election coverage. For the manner of making an election under section 955(b)(2), and for rules relating to the revocation of such an election, see paragraph (d) of this section. For rules relating to the coordination of sections 955(b)(2) and 955(b)(3), see paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Related group*—(1) *Related group defined.* The term “related group” means two or more controlled foreign corporations, but only if all of the following requirements are met:


(i) All such corporations use the same taxable year.


(ii) The same United States shareholder controls each such corporation within the meaning of section 954(d)(3) at the end of such taxable year, and


(iii) Such United States shareholder elects to treat such corporations as a related group.


(iv) If any of the corporations is on a 52-53 week taxable year and if all of the taxable years of the corporations end within the same 7-day period, the rule of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be deemed satisfied.


(v) An election under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section will not be valid in the case of an election by a U.S. shareholder (the “first U.S. shareholder”) if—


(A) The first U.S. shareholder controls a second U.S. shareholder,


(B) The second U.S. shareholder controls one or more controlled foreign corporations, and


(C) Any of the controlled foreign corporations are the subject of the election by the first U.S. shareholder, 



unless the second U.S. shareholder consents to the election by the first U.S. shareholder.


(2) *Group taxable years defined.* The “group taxable year” is the common taxable year of a related group.


(3) *Limitation.* If a United States shareholder elects to treat two or more corporations as a related group for a group taxable year (the “first group taxable year”), then such United States shareholder (and any other United States shareholder which is controlled by such shareholder) may not also elect to treat two or more other corporations as a related group for a group taxable year any day of which falls within the first group taxable year.


(4) *Illustrations.* The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:


(c) *Effect of election.* If a United States shareholder elects to treat two or more controlled foreign corporations as a related group for any group taxable year then, for purposes of determining the foreign base company income (see § 1.954-1) and the increase or decrease in qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations (see §§ 1.954-7. 1.955A-1, and 1.955A-4) of each member of such group for such year, the following rules shall apply:


(1) *Intragroup dividends.* The gross income of each member of the related group shall be deemed not to include dividends received from any other member of such group, to the extent that such dividends are attributable (within the meaning of § 1.954-6(f)(4)) to foreign base company shipping income. In determining net foreign base company shipping income, deductions allocable to intragroup dividends attributable to foreign base company shipping income shall not be allowed.


(2) *Group excess deduction.* (i) The deductions allocable under § 1.954-1(c) to the foreign base company shipping income of each member of the related group shall be deemed to include such member's pro rata share of the group excess deduction.


(ii) The group excess deduction for the group taxable year is the sum of the excesses for each member of the related group (having an excess) of—


(A) The member's deductions (determined without regard to this subparagraph) allocable to foreign base company shipping income for such year, over


(B) The member's foreign base company shipping income for such year.


(iii) A member's pro rata share of the group excess deduction is the amount which bears the same ratio to such group excess deduction as—


(A) The excess of such member's foreign base company shipping income over the deductions (so determined) allocable thereto, bears to


(B) The sum of such excesses for each member of the related group having an excess.


(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, “foreign base company shipping income” means foreign base company shipping income (as defined in § 1.954-6), reduced by excluding therefrom all amounts which are—


(A) Excluded from subpart F income under section 952(b) (relating to exclusion of United States income) or


(B) Excluded from foreign base company income under section 954(b)(4) (relating to exception for foreign corporation not availed of to reduce taxes).


(v) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(3) *Intragroup investments.* On both of the determination dates applicable to the group taxable year for purposes of section 954(g) or section 955(a)(2), the qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations of each member of the related group shall be deemed not to include stock of any other member of the related group. In addition, neither the gains nor the losses on dispositions of such stock during the group taxable year shall be taken into account under § 1.955A-1(b)(1)(ii) in determining the decrease in qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations of any member of such related group.


(4) *Group excess investment.* (i) On the later (and only the later) of the two determination dates applicable to the group taxable year for purposes of section 954(g) or section 955(a)(2), the qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations of each member of the related group shall be deemed to include such member's pro rata share of the group excess investment.


(ii) The group excess investment for the group taxable year is the sum of the excess for each member of the related group (having an excess) of—


(A) The member's increase in qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations (determined under § 1.954-7 after the application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) for such year, over


(B) The member's foreign base company shipping income for such year.


(iii) A member's pro rata share of the group excess investment is the amount which bears the same ratio to such group excess investment as—


(A) Such member's shortfall, in qualified investments bears to


(B) the sum of the shortfalls in qualified investments of each member of such related group having a shortfall.


(iv) If a member has an increase in qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations (determined as provided in § 1.954-7 after the application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) for the group taxable year, then such member's “shortfall in qualified investments” is the excess of—


(A) Such member's foreign base company shipping income for such year, over


(B) Such increase.


(v) If a member has a decrease in qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations (determined under § 1.955A-1(b)(1) or § 1.955A-4(a), whichever is applicable, after the application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) for the group taxable year, then such member's “shortfall in qualified investments” is the sum of—


(A) Such member's foreign base company shipping income for such year and


(B) Such decrease.


(vi) For purposes of this subparagraph, “foreign base company shipping income” means foreign base company shipping income (as defined in subparagraph (2)(iv) of this paragraph), reduced by the deductions allocable thereto under § 1.954-1(c) (including the additional deductions described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph).


(vii) The application of paragraphs (c)(1), (3), and (4) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(5) *Collateral effect.* (i) An election under this section by a United States shareholder to treat two or more controlled foreign corporations as a related group for a group taxable year shall have no effect on—


(A) Any other United States shareholder (including a minority shareholder of a member of such related group).


(B) Any other controlled foreign corporation, and


(C) The foreign personal holding company income, foreign base company sales income, and foreign base company services income, and the deductions allocable under § 1.954-1(c) thereto, of any member of such related group.


(ii) See § 1.952-1(c)(2)(ii) for the effect of an election under this section on the computation of earnings and profits and deficits in earnings and profits under section 952 (c) and (d).


(iii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(d) *Procedure*—(1) *Time and manner of making election.* A United States shareholder shall make an election under this section to treat two or more controlled foreign corporations as a related group for a group taxable year and subsequent years by filing a statement to such effect with the return for the taxable year within which or with which such group taxable year ends. The statement shall include the following information:


(i) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and taxable year of the United States shareholder;


(ii) The name, address, and taxable year of each controlled foreign corporation which is a member of the related group and is to be subject to the election; and


(iii) A schedule showing the calculations by which the amounts described in this section have been determined for the taxable year for which the election is first effective. With respect to each subsequent taxable year to which the election applies, a new schedule showing calculations of such amounts for that taxable year must be filed with the return for that taxable year. A consent to an election required by paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section shall include the same information required for the election statement.


(2) *Revocation.* (i) Except as provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, an election under this section by a United States shareholder shall be binding for the group taxable year for which it is made and for subsequent years.


(ii) Upon application by the United States shareholder (and any other United States shareholder controlled by such shareholder which consented under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section to the election), an election made under this section may, subject to the approval of the Commissioner, be revoked. An application to revoke the election, as of a specified group taxable year, with respect to one or more (but not all) controlled foreign corporations, subject to an election shall be deemed to be an application to revoke the election. Approval will not be granted unless a material and substantial change in circumstances occurs which could not have been anticipated when the election was made. The application for consent to revocation shall be made by mailing a letter for such purpose to Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: T:C:C, Washington, DC 20224, containing a statement of the facts which justify such consent. If a member of a related group subject to an election ceases to meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for membership in the group by reason of any action taken by it or any member of the group or the electing United States shareholder, then the election will be deemed to be revoked as of the beginning of the taxable year in which such action occurred. If such action is taken principally for the purpose of revoking the election without applying for and obtaining the approval of the Commissioner to the revocation, then no further election covering any member of that related group may be made by any United States shareholder for the remainder of the taxable year in which the action occurred and the five succeeding taxable years.


(e) *Coordination with section 955(b)(3)*. If a United States shareholder elects under this section to treat two or more controlled foreign corporations as a related group for any taxable year, and if such United States shareholder is required under § 1.955A-4(c)(2) for purposes of filing any return to estimate the qualified investments in foreign base company shipping operations of any member of such group, then such United States shareholder shall, for purposes of filing such return, determine the amount includible in his gross income in respect of each member of such related group on the basis of such estimate. If the actual amount of such investments is not the same as the amount of the estimate, the United States shareholder shall immediately notify the Commissioner. The Commissioner will thereupon redetermine the amount of tax of such United States shareholder for the year or years with respect to which the incorrect amount was taken into account. The amount of tax, if any, due upon such redetermination shall be paid by the United States shareholder upon notice and demand by the district director. The amount of tax, if any, shown by such redetermination to have been overpaid shall be credited or refunded to the United States shareholder in accordance with the provisions of sections 6402 and 6511 and the regulations thereunder. If a United States shareholder elects under this section and if the United States shareholder has made an election under section 955(b)(3) as to at least one member of the related group, then the qualified investment amounts necessary for the calculations of paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section shall be obtained, for each member of the related group, as of the determination dates applicable to each of the members.


(f) *Illustrations.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7894, 48 FR 22535, May 19, 1983; 48 FR 40888, Sept. 12, 1983, as amended by T.D. 7959, 49 FR 22280, May 29, 1984]




