# § 49.101   Introduction.

(a) *What is the purpose of §§ 49.101 through 49.105*? Sections 49.101 through 49.105 adopt legally and practicably enforceable requirements to control and reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, particulate matter (PM, PM_10,_ PM_2.5_), hydrogen sulfide, carbon monoxide and various sulfur compounds from new and modified true minor sources in the oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing segments of the oil and natural gas sector.


(b) *Am I subject to §§ 49.101 through 49.105*? You are subject to the requirements if you:


(1) Own or operate a new true minor oil and natural gas source or an existing true minor oil and natural gas source undergoing modification as determined pursuant to § 49.153(a) that meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. Then you shall comply with the requirements of §§ 49.104 and 49.105, unless you obtain a source-specific permit as specified in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.


(i) The source is an oil and natural gas source as defined in § 49.102;


(ii) The oil and natural gas source as defined in § 49.102 is located in Indian country as defined in § 49.152(d), within the geographic scope of the Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country, as specified in § 49.102;


(iii) The oil and natural gas source as defined in § 49.102 is a new true minor source or a minor modification of an existing true minor source, as determined under § 49.153;


(iv) The oil and natural gas source as defined in § 49.102 begins construction or modification on or after October 3, 2016; and


(v) The oil and natural gas source as defined in § 49.102 is not located in a designated nonattainment area.


(2) Owners/operators of sources that meet the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that choose to obtain a source-specific permit as specified in § 49.155 before beginning construction are not required to comply with the requirements of §§ 49.101 through 49.105.


(3) Owners/operators of sources that meet the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that the Reviewing Authority requires to obtain a source-specific permit to ensure protection of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards as specified in § 49.155 before beginning construction are not required to comply with §§ 49.101 through 49.105.


(c) *When must I comply with §§ 49.101 through 49.105?* You must comply with §§ 49.101 through 49.105 on or after October 3, 2016.


(d) This Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) does not apply to minor modifications at major sources.


(e) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, oil and natural gas sources located in the Indian country portion of the Uinta Basin Ozone Nonattainment Area are subject to §§ 49.101 through 49.105 (except for paragraph (b)(1)(v)), provided paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section are also satisfied.



---

[N] [81 FR 35977, June 3, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 21252, May 14, 2019]




