# § 7.67   Construction test.

The construction test is to be performed on the blasting unit subsequent to the output energy test of § 7.66.


(a) *Test procedures.* (1) The blasting unit shall be dropped 20 times from a height of 3 feet onto a horizontal concrete floor. When dropped, the orientation of the blasting unit shall be varied each time in an attempt to have a different surface, corner, or edge strike the floor first for each drop.


(2) After the blasting unit has been drop tested in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) above, it shall be submerged in 1 foot of water for 1 hour in each of 3 tests. The water temperature shall be maintained within ±5 °F (±2.8 °C) of 40 °F (4.4 °C), 70 °F (21.1 °C) and 100 °F (37.8 °C) during the tests.


(3) Immediately after removing the blasting unit from the water at each temperature, the unit shall be operated first with the firing line terminals open circuited, then operated again with the firing line terminals short circuited, and last, the output energy tested in accordance with the output energy test of § 7.66.


(b) *Acceptable performance.* (1) The blasting unit shall meet the acceptable performance criteria of the output energy test in § 7.66 each time it is performed.


(2) There shall be no damage to the firing line terminals that exposes an electric conductor.


(3) The visual indicator shall be operational.


(4) The batteries shall not be separated from the blasting unit.


(5) There shall be no water inside the blasting unit enclosure, except for the battery compartment.




