# § 165.705   Security Zones: Port Canaveral Harbor, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, FL.

(a) *Regulated areas*—(1) *Security Zone A.* East (Trident) Basin, Port Canaveral Harbor, at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Brevard County, Florida: All waters of the East Basin north of latitude 28°24′36″ N.


(2) *Security Zone B.* Middle Basin, Port Canaveral Harbor, at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Brevard County, Florida: All waters within the following coordinates inside the Middle Basin: Starting at Point 1 in position 28°24′54.49″ N, 080°36′39.13″ W; thence south to Point 2 in position 28°24′53.27″ N, 080°36′39.15″ W; thence east to Point 3 in position 28°24′53.25″ N, 080°36′30.41″ W; thence south to Point 4 in position 28°24′50.51″ N, 080°36′30.41″ W; thence southeast to Point 5 in position 28°24′38.15″ N, 080°36′17.18″ W; thence east to Point 6 in position 28°24′38.16″ N, 080°36′14.92″ W; thence northeast to Point 7 in position 28°24′39.36″ N, 080°36′13.37″ W; thence following the land based perimeter boundary to the point of origin. These coordinates are based on North American Datum 1983.


(b) *Definitions.* The term “designated representative” means personnel designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port (COTP) Jacksonville in the enforcement of the security zone. This includes Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels and federal, state, and local law officers designated by or assisting the COTP Jacksonville in the enforcement of regulated navigation areas and security zones.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations governing security zones found in § 165.33 apply to the security zones described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) All persons and vessels are prohibited from entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the security zone unless authorized by the COTP Jacksonville or a designated representative.


(3) Persons desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain within the security zone may request permission from the COTP Jacksonville by telephone at 904-714-7557, or a designated representative via VHF-FM radio on channel 16. If authorization is granted, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the COTP Jacksonville or the designated representative.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0146, 83 FR 15949, Apr. 13, 2018]




