# ยง 145.3   Definitions.

*Improper or illegal conduct.* (a) A violation of any law, rule, or regulation in connection with Government misconduct; or


(b) Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety.


*Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD).* (a) The immediate offices of the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, the Assistant Secretaries, Assistants to the Secretary, and other officials serving the Secretary of Defense directly.


(b) The field activities of the Secretary of Defense.


(c) The Organization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


(d) The Unified and Specified Commands.


*Personnel action.* (a) An appointment.


(b) A promotion.


(c) An adverse action under 5 U.S.C. 7501 *et seq.* or other disciplinary or corrective action.


(d) A detail, transfer, or reassignment.


(e) A reinstatement.


(f) A restoration.


(g) A reemployment.


(h) A performance evaluation under 5 U.S.C. 4301 *et seq.*

(i) A decision concerning pay, benefits, or awards, or concerning education or training if the education or training may reasonably be expected to lead to an appointment, promotion, performance evaluation, or other personnel action.


(j) Any other significant change in duties or responsibilities that is inconsistent with the employee's salary or grade level.


*Prohibited personnel practice.* Action taken by an employee who has authority to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel action:


(a) That discriminates for or against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicapping condition, marital status, or political affiliation, as prohibited by certain specified laws (see 5 U.S.C. 2302(b)(1).


(b) To solicit or consider any recommendation or statement, oral or written, with respect to any individual who requests, or is under consideration for, any personnel action, unless the recommendation or statement is based on the personal knowledge or records of the person furnishing it, and consists of an evaluation of the work performance, ability, aptitude, or general qualifications of the individual, or an evaluation of the character, loyalty, or suitability of such individual.


(c) To coerce the political activity of any person (including the providing of any political contribution or service), or take any action against any employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for the refusal of any person to engage in such political activity.


(d) To deceive or willfully obstruct any person with respect to such person's right to compete for employment.


(e) To influence any person to withdraw from competition for any position for the purpose of improving or injuring the prospects of any other person for employment.


(f) To grant any preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to any employee or applicant for employment (including defining the scope or manner of competition or the requirements for any position) for the purpose of improving or injuring the prospects of any particular person for employment.


(g) To appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position any individual who is a relative (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3110) of the employee if the position is in the agency in which the employee is serving as a public official (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3110) or over which the employee exercises jurisdiction or control as an official.


(h) To take or fail to take a personnel action with respect to any employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for being a whistleblower. (See whistleblower)


(i) To take or fail to take a personnel action against an employee or applicant for employment as a reprisal for the exercise of any appeal right granted by law, rule, or regulation.


(j) To discriminate for or against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of conduct that does not adversely affect the performance of the employee or applicant or the performance of others.


(k) To take or fail to take any other personnel action if the taking of, or failure to take, such action violates any law, rule, or regulation implementing, or directly concerning, the merit system principles contained in 5 U.S.C. 2301.


*Whistleblower.* A present or former Federal employee or applicant for Federal employment who discloses information he or she reasonably believes evidences:


(a) A violation of any law, rule, or regulation.


(b) Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, or an abuse of authority.


(c) A substantial or specific danger to public health or safety.


(d) Such disclosure qualifies if it is not specifically prohibited by statute and if such information is not specifically required by Executive Order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs.


(e) Where the information disclosed affects only the personal situation of the complaintant, it is generally to be regarded as an allegation of a prohibited personnel practice or violation of other civil service law, rule, or regulation, and the complainant will not be considered a whistleblower.




