# ยง 68.39   Formal hearings.

(a) *Public.* Hearings shall be open to the public. The Administrative Law Judge may order a hearing or any part thereof closed, where to do so would be in the best interests of the parties, a witness, the public, or other affected persons. Any order closing the hearing shall set forth the reasons for the decision. Any objections thereto shall be made a part of the record.


(b) *Jurisdiction.* The Administrative Law Judge shall have jurisdiction to decide all issues of fact and related issues of law.


(c) *Rights of parties.* Every party shall have the right of timely notice and all other rights essential to a fair hearing, including, but not limited to, the right to present evidence, to conduct such cross-examination as may be necessary for a full and complete disclosure of the facts, and to be heard by objection, motion, and argument.


(d) *Rights of participation.* Every party shall have the right to make a written or oral statement of position. At the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, participants may file proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a post hearing brief.


(e) *Amendments to conform to the evidence.* When issues not raised by the request for hearing, prehearing stipulation, or prehearing order are tried by express or implied consent of the parties, they shall be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the pleadings. Such amendment of the pleadings as may be necessary to cause them to conform to the evidence may be made on motion of any party at any time; but failure to so amend does not affect the result of the hearing of these issues. The Administrative Law Judge may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.



---

[N] [54 FR 48596, Nov. 24, 1989. Redesignated by Order No. 1534-91, 56 FR 50053, Oct. 3, 1991]




