# ยง 1437.14   Multiple benefits.

(a) If a producer is eligible to receive payments under this part and benefits under any other program administered by the Secretary for the same crop loss, the producer must choose whether to receive the other program benefits or payments under this part, but will not be eligible for both. The limitation on multiple benefits prohibits a producer from being compensated more than once for the same loss. 


(b) The limitation on multiple benefits specified in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to:


(1) Emergency Loans made under subtitle C of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1961-1970).


(2) Livestock Forage Disaster Program (LFP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter,


(3) Tree Assistance Program (TAP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter, or


(4) Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honeybees, and Farm-Raised Fish Program (ELAP) payments as specified in part 1416 of this chapter.


(c) The restriction on multiple benefits does not relieve the producer from the requirements of making a production and acreage report. 


(d) If the other USDA program benefits are not available until after an application for benefits has been filed under this part, the producer may, to avoid this restriction on such other benefits, refund the total amount of the payment to the administrative county office from which the payment was received. 



---

[N] [67 FR 12448, Mar. 19, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 21018, Apr. 9, 2013. Redesignated and amended at 79 FR 74574, 74579 Dec. 15, 2014]




