# § 1006.30   Other prohibited practices.

(a) *Required actions prior to furnishing information*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a debt collector must not furnish to a consumer reporting agency, as defined in section 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)), information about a debt before the debt collector:


(i) Speaks to the consumer about the debt in person or by telephone; or


(ii) Places a letter in the mail or sends an electronic message to the consumer about the debt and waits a reasonable period of time to receive a notice of undeliverability. During the reasonable period, the debt collector must permit receipt of, and monitor for, notifications of undeliverability from communications providers. If the debt collector receives such a notification during the reasonable period, the debt collector must not furnish information about the debt to a consumer reporting agency until the debt collector otherwise satisfies this paragraph (a)(1).


(2) *Special rule—information furnished to certain specialty consumer reporting agencies.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a debt collector's furnishing of information about a debt to a nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains information on a consumer's check writing history, as described in section 603(x)(3) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(x)(3)).


(b) *Prohibition on the sale, transfer for consideration, or placement for collection of certain debts*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a debt collector must not sell, transfer for consideration, or place for collection a debt if the debt collector knows or should know that the debt has been paid or settled or discharged in bankruptcy.


(2) *Exceptions*—(i) *In general.* A debt collector may transfer for consideration a debt described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the debt collector:


(A) Transfers the debt to the debt's owner;


(B) Transfers the debt to a previous owner of the debt, if the transfer is authorized under the terms of the original contract between the debt collector and the previous owner; or


(C) Transfers the debt as a result of a merger, acquisition, purchase and assumption transaction, or a transfer of substantially all of the debt collector's assets.


(ii) *Secured claims in bankruptcy.* A debt collector may sell, transfer for consideration, or place for collection a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy if the debt is secured by an enforceable lien and the debt collector notifies the transferee that the consumer's personal liability for the debt was discharged in bankruptcy.


(iii) *Securitizations and pledges of debt.* Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not prohibit the securitization of a debt or the pledging of a portfolio of debt as collateral in connection with a borrowing.


(c) *Multiple debts.* If a consumer makes any single payment to a debt collector with respect to multiple debts owed by the consumer to the debt collector, the debt collector:


(1) Must not apply the payment to any debt that is disputed by the consumer; and


(2) If applicable, must apply the payment in accordance with the consumer's directions.


(d) *Legal actions by debt collectors*—(1) *Action to enforce interest in real property.* A debt collector who brings a legal action against a consumer to enforce an interest in real property securing the consumer's debt must bring the action only in a judicial district or similar legal entity in which such real property is located.


(2) *Other legal actions.* A debt collector who brings a legal action against a consumer other than to enforce an interest in real property securing the consumer's debt must bring such action only in the judicial district or similar legal entity in which the consumer:


(i) Signed the contract sued upon; or


(ii) Resides at the commencement of the action.


(3) *Authorization of actions.* Nothing in this part authorizes debt collectors to bring legal actions.


(e) *Furnishing certain deceptive forms.* A debt collector must not design, compile, and furnish any form that the debt collector knows would be used to cause a consumer falsely to believe that a person other than the consumer's creditor is participating in collecting or attempting to collect a debt that the consumer allegedly owes to the creditor.



---

[N] [85 FR 76887, Nov. 30, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 5854, Jan. 19, 2021]




