# ยง 886.323   Maintenance, operation, and inspections.

(a) *Maintain housing free of health and safety hazards.* The Owner shall maintain and operate the project so as to be compliant with 24 CFR part 5, subpart G, and the Owner shall provide all the services, maintenance, and utilities which the Owner agrees to provide under the contract and the lease. Failure to do so shall be considered a material default under the contract and Regulatory Agreement, if any.


(b) *HUD inspection.* Prior to execution of the contract, HUD shall inspect (or cause to be inspected) each proposed contract unit and related facilities to ensure that they comply with the requirements at 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.


(c) *Owner and family inspection.* Prior to occupancy of any vacant unit by a Family, the Owner and the Family shall inspect the unit. The Owner shall certify that they have inspected the unit, and the owner shall certify that the unit is compliant with 24 CFR part 5, subpart G. Copies of these reports shall be kept on file by the owner for at least 3 years.


(d) *Periodic inspections.* HUD will inspect the project (or cause it to be inspected) in accordance with the requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G, and at such other times as HUD may determine to be necessary to assure that the owner is meeting the Owner's obligation to maintain the units and the related facilities in accordance with 24 CFR part 5, subpart G, and to provide the agreed-upon utilities and other services.


(e) *Failure to maintain housing.* If HUD notifies the Owner that he/she has failed to maintain a unit that is compliant with 24 CFR part 5, subpart G, and the Owner fails to take corrective action within the time prescribed in the notice, HUD may exercise any of its rights or remedies under the Contract, or Regulatory Agreement, if any, including abatement of housing assistance payments (even if the Family continues to occupy the unit) and rescission of the sale. If the Family wishes to be rehoused in another unit, HUD shall provide assistance in finding such a unit for the Family.





---

[N] [88 FR 30500, May 11, 2023]












