# § 1200.2   Organization of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.

(a) *Director.* The Director is responsible for overseeing the prudential operations of each regulated entity, and for ensuring that each regulated entity: Operates in a safe and sound manner; operates and acts to foster liquid, efficient, competitive, and resilient national housing financing markets; complies with the Safety and Soundness Act, its authorizing statute, and rules, regulations, guidelines, and orders issued under those statutes; carries out its mission only through activities that are authorized by statute; and acts and operates consistent with the public interest. The Director may delegate to FHFA officers and employees any of the functions, powers, and duties of the Director as the Director considers appropriate. The Director manages FHFA, including through authorities delegated to FHFA officers and employees.


(b) *Deputy Director of the Division of Enterprise Regulation.* The Deputy Director is responsible for managing FHFA's program of prudential supervision of the Enterprises. The Deputy Director provides management oversight, direction, and support for all examination activity involving the Enterprises, the development of supervision findings, and preparation of the annual reports of examination. The Deputy Director provides support and advice to the Director and other senior executives and represents the division on significant and emerging supervisory issues and development of FHFA supervisory policy, and has such other responsibilities as the Director may prescribe.


(c) *Deputy Director of the Division of Housing Mission and Goals.* The Deputy Director is responsible for FHFA policy development and analysis, oversight of housing and regulatory policy, and oversight of the mission and goals of the Enterprises. The Deputy Director oversees and coordinates FHFA activities regarding data analysis, market surveillance, policy development, policy research and analysis affecting housing finance and financial markets, and policy analysis and research in support of FHFA's mission and the Director's responsibilities as a member of the Federal Housing Finance Oversight board, the Financial Stability Oversight Board, and the Financial Stability Oversight Council, and has such other responsibilities as the Director may prescribe.


(d) *Deputy Director of the Division of Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation.* The Deputy Director is responsible for managing FHFA's program of prudential supervision of the Banks and the OF. The Deputy Director provides management oversight, direction and support for all examination activity involving the Banks, the development of supervision findings, and preparation of the annual reports of examination. The Deputy Director provides support and advice to the Director and other senior executives and represents the division on significant and emerging supervisory issues and development of FHFA supervisory policy, and has such other responsibilities as the Director may prescribe.


(e) *Offices and functions*—(1) *Office of the Director.* The Office of the Director supports the activities of the Director and includes Offices as the Director may create within the Office of the Director.


(2) *Division of Enterprise Regulation.* The division supports and implements the responsibilities of the Deputy Director described in paragraph (b) of this section. The division oversees and directs all Enterprise supervisory activities, develops examination findings, prepares reports of examination, and prepares the sections of the Annual Report to Congress that describe the condition and performance of each Enterprise. The division monitors and assesses the financial condition and performance of the Enterprises. By means of annual examinations and a continuous on-site presence, the division monitors and assesses the amount of risk each Enterprise assumes, the quality of risk management, and compliance with regulations.


(3) *Division of Housing Mission and Goals.* The division supports and implements the responsibilities of the Deputy Director described in paragraph (c) of this section. In support of FHFA's mission and the Director's responsibilities as a member of the Federal Housing Finance Oversight Board, the Financial Stability Oversight Board, and the Financial Stability Oversight Committee, the division also oversees and coordinates FHFA activities that involve certain data analysis, and analysis affecting housing finance and financial markets.


(4) *Division of Federal Home Loan Bank Regulation.* The division supports and implements the responsibilities of the Deputy Director described in paragraph (d) of this section, including overseeing and directing all Bank supervisory activities, developing examination findings, preparing reports of examination, and preparing the sections of the annual report to Congress that describe the condition and performance of the Banks. The division monitors and assesses the financial condition and performance of the Banks and the OF and monitors and assesses their compliance with regulations, the amount of risk they assume, and the quality of their risk management through annual on-site examinations, periodic visits, and ongoing off-site monitoring and analysis.


(5) *Office of Inspector General.* The office is headed by a presidentially appointed and Senate-confirmed Inspector General who serves under the general supervision of the Director. The office carries out activities and responsibilities established in the Inspector General Act of 1978.


(6) *Office of General Counsel.* The office advises and supports the Director and FHFA staff on legal matters related to the functions, activities, and operations of FHFA and the regulated entities; it supports supervision functions, development and promulgation of regulations and orders, and enforcement actions. The office manages the Freedom of Information, Privacy Act and ethics programs. The Designated Agency Ethics Official advises, counsels, and trains FHFA employees on ethical standards and conflicts of interest, and manages the agency's financial disclosure program.


(7) *Office of the Ombudsman.* The office is responsible for considering complaints and appeals from the regulated entities, the OF and any person that has a business relationship with a regulated entity or the OF concerning any matter relating to FHFA's regulation and supervision of that entity or the OF.


(8) *Office of Minority and Women Inclusion.* The office is responsible for all matters of FHFA relating to diversity in management, employment, and business activities, and for supervising the diversity requirements applicable to the regulated entities and the OF.


(f) *Other Offices and Departments.* The Director may from time to time establish or terminate Offices and Divisions of the agency as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to carry out FHFA's mission. The Director may establish Offices and positions as the Director deems necessary and appropriate to support the operations of a federal agency, such as a Deputy Director for one or more specified areas of responsibility, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, an Office of Information Technology, and such other offices, departments, and positions as are necessary and appropriate or may be required by statute.


(g) *Additional information.* Current information on the organization of FHFA may be obtained by mail from the Office of Congressional Affairs and Communications, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20219. Such information, as well as other FHFA information, also may be obtained electronically by accessing FHFA's Web site located at *www.FHFA.gov.*


---

[N] [77 FR 73264, Dec. 10, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 45599, July 31, 2015; 80 FR 80233, Dec. 24, 2015]




