# ยง 30.110   How will the Secretary ensure BIE-funded schools will provide for annual assessments of English language proficiency for English learners?

(a) The BIE will ensure that BIE-funded schools will administer a valid and reliable annual assessment of English proficiency to all English learners in the schools served by the BIE.


(b) The BIE will require BIE-funded schools to use the assessment to assess annually the English language proficiency, including reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills, of all English learners in kindergarten through grade twelve (12).


(c) The English language proficiency assessment must be aligned with the BIE's English language proficiency standards described in ยง 30.104(f).


(d) The assessment will be implemented, developed, and used consistent with the requirements of this section.


(e) The assessment will provide coherent and timely information about each student's attainment of the BIE's English language proficiency standards to parents.


(f) If an English learner has a disability that precludes assessment of the student in one or more domains of the English language proficiency assessment such that there are no appropriate accommodations for the affected domain(s) (*e.g.,* a non-verbal English learner who because of an identified disability cannot take the speaking portion of the assessment), as determined, on an individualized basis, by the student's IEP team, 504 team, or by the individual or team designated by the BIE-funded school to make these decisions under title II of the ADA, then the BIE must assess the student's English language proficiency based on the remaining domains in which it is possible to assess the student.


(g) The BIE must provide for an alternate English language proficiency assessment for English learners with the most significant cognitive disabilities who cannot participate in the assessment under this paragraph (g) even with appropriate accommodations.


(h) BIE will provide technical assistance, including training teachers on how to administer assessments, in regard to English language proficiency assessments and alternate English language proficiency assessments to BIE-funded schools as requested in writing.




