# § 721.1620   Benzenesulfonamide, alkylphenyl substituted phenyl substituted carbonyl- (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as benzenesulfonamide alkylphenyl substituted phenyl substituted carbonyl- (PMN P-00-368) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this chemical substance.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721,72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 30).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this chemical substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 70174, Dec. 17, 2003]




