# § 1212.13   Certification tests.

(a) *General.* As explained in § 1212.11 of this subpart, certificates of compliance required by section 14(a) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2063(a), must be based on a reasonable testing program.


(b) *Reasonable testing programs*—(1) *Requirements.* (i) A reasonable testing program for multi-purpose lighters is one that demonstrates with a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters manufactured for sale or distributed in commerce will meet the requirements of the standard, including the requirements of § 1212.3. Manufacturers and importers shall determine the types and frequency of testing for their own reasonable testing programs. A reasonable testing program should be sufficiently stringent that it will detect any variations in production or performance during the production interval that would cause any multi-purpose lighters to fail to meet the requirements of the standard.


(ii) All reasonable testing programs shall include: 


(A) Qualification tests, which must be performed on surrogates of each model of multi-purpose lighter produced, or to be produced, to demonstrate that the product is capable of passing the tests prescribed by the standard (see § 1212.14) and


(B) Production tests, which must be performed during appropriate production intervals as long as the product is being manufactured (see § 1212.16).


(iii) Corrective action and/or additional testing must be performed whenever certification tests of samples of the product give results that do not provide a high degree of assurance that all multi-purpose lighters manufactured during the applicable production interval will pass the tests of the standard.


(2) *Testing by third parties.* At the option of the manufacturer or importer, some or all of the testing of each multi-purpose lighter or multi-purpose lighter surrogate may be performed by a commercial testing laboratory or other third party. However, the manufacturer or importer must ensure that all certification testing has been properly performed with passing results and that all records of such tests are maintained in accordance with § 1212.17 of this subpart.




