# ยง 52.2531   Base year emissions inventory.

(a) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Greenbrier county ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary, West Virginia Department of Commerce, Labor & Environmental Resources on December 22, 1992. These submittals consist of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories in Greenbrier County for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_). 


(b) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on May 28, 2009. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(c) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Parkersburg-Marietta, WV-OH fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on September 9, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_) and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(d) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Charleston, WV fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on November 4, 2009. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(e) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the West Virginia portion of the Steubenville-Weirton, OH-WV fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on June 24, 2009. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(f) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the comprehensive emissions inventory for the Wheeling, WV-OH fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on March 8, 2012 and June 24, 2013. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonroad mobile sources, area sources, onroad mobile sources and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOC), PM_2.5_, ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(g) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the comprehensive emissions inventory for the Charleston fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on December 6, 2012 and June 24, 2013. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonroad mobile sources, area sources, onroad mobile sources and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOC), PM_2.5_, ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(h) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the comprehensive emissions inventory for the West Virginia portion for the Martinsburg WV-Hagerstown, MD PM_2.5_ nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on August 5, 2013. The emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonroad mobile sources, area sources, onroad mobile sources and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOC), PM_2.5_, ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(i) EPA approves as a revision to the West Virginia State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the Marshall, West Virginia 2010 1-hour SO_2_ nonattainment area submitted by the West Virginia Department of Environmental Protection on May 6, 2015. The 2011 base year emissions inventory for SO_2_ includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonpoint sources, on road sources, and non-road sources.



---

[N] [60 FR 39862, Aug. 4, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 73545, Dec. 11, 2012; 77 FR 73924, 73926, Dec. 12, 2012; 78 FR 22425, Apr. 16, 2013; 78 FR 58943, Sept. 30, 2013; 79 FR 17886, Mar. 31, 2014; 79 FR 70102, Nov. 25, 2014; 80 FR 45615, Sept. 29, 2015]




