# § 200.320   Procurement methods.

There are three types of procurement methods described in this section: informal procurement methods (for micro-purchases and simplified acquisitions); formal procurement methods (through sealed bids or proposals); and noncompetitive procurement methods. For any of these methods, the recipient or subrecipient must maintain and use documented procurement procedures, consistent with the standards of this section and §§ 200.317, 200.318, and 200.319.


(a) *Informal procurement methods for small purchases.* These procurement methods expedite the completion of transactions, minimize administrative burdens, and reduce costs. Informal procurement methods may be used when the value of the procurement transaction under the Federal award does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold as defined in § 200.1. Recipients and subrecipients may also establish a lower threshold. Informal procurement methods include:


(1) *Micro-purchases*—(i) *Distribution.* The aggregate amount of the procurement transaction does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold defined in § 200.1. To the extent practicable, the recipient or subrecipient should distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.


(ii) *Micro-purchase awards.* Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive price or rate quotations if the recipient or subrecipient considers the price reasonable based on research, experience, purchase history, or other information; and maintains documents to support its conclusion. Purchase cards may be used as a method of payment for micro-purchases.


(iii) *Micro-purchase thresholds.* The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for determining and documenting an appropriate micro-purchase threshold based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented procurement procedures. The micro-purchase threshold used by the recipient or subrecipient must be authorized or not prohibited under State, local, or tribal laws or regulations. The recipient or subrecipient may establish a threshold higher than the Federal threshold established in the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section.


(iv) *Recipient or subrecipient increase to the micro-purchase threshold up to $50,000.* The recipient or subrecipient may establish a threshold higher than the micro-purchase threshold identified in the FAR in accordance with the requirements of this section. The recipient or subrecipient may self-certify a threshold up to $50,000 on an annual basis and must maintain documentation to be made available to the Federal agency or pass-through entity and auditors in accordance with § 200.334. The self-certification must include a justification, clear identification of the threshold, and supporting documentation of any of the following:


(A) A qualification as a low-risk auditee, in accordance with the criteria in § 200.520 for the most recent audit;


(B) An annual internal institutional risk assessment to identify, mitigate, and manage financial risks; or,


(C) For public institutions, a higher threshold is consistent with State law.


(v) *Recipient or subrecipient increase to the micro-purchase threshold over $50,000.* Micro-purchase thresholds higher than $50,000 must be approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs. The recipient or subrecipient must submit a request that includes the requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. The increased threshold is valid until any factor that was relied on in the establishment and rationale of the threshold changes.


(2) *Simplified acquisitions*—(i) *Simplified acquisition procedures.* The aggregate dollar amount of the procurement transaction is higher than the micro-purchase threshold but does not exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. If simplified acquisition procedures are used, price or rate quotations must be obtained from an adequate number of qualified sources. Unless specified by the Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient may exercise judgment in determining what number is adequate.


(ii) *Simplified acquisition thresholds.* The recipient or subrecipient is responsible for determining an appropriate simplified acquisition threshold based on internal controls, an evaluation of risk, and its documented procurement procedures, which may be lower than, but must not exceed, the threshold established in the FAR.


(b) *Formal procurement methods.* Formal procurement methods are required when the value of the procurement transaction under a Federal award exceeds the simplified acquisition threshold of the recipient or subrecipient. Formal procurement methods are competitive and require public notice. The following formal methods of procurement are used for procurement transactions above the simplified acquisition threshold determined by the recipient or subrecipient in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section:


(1) *Sealed bids.* This is a procurement method in which bids are publicly solicited through an invitation and a firm fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded to the responsible bidder whose bid conforms with all the material terms and conditions of the invitation and is the lowest in price. The sealed bids procurement method is preferred for procuring construction services.


(i) For sealed bidding to be feasible, the following conditions should be present:


(A) A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase description is available; (B) Two or more responsible bidders have been identified as willing and able to compete effectively for the business; and


(C) The procurement lends itself to a firm-fixed-price contract, and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally based on price.


(ii) If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:


(A) Bids must be solicited from an adequate number of qualified sources, providing them with sufficient response time prior to the date set for opening the bids. Unless specified by the Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient may exercise judgment in determining what number is adequate. For local governments, the invitation for bids must be publicly advertised.


(B) The invitation for bids must define the items or services with specific information, including any required specifications, for the bidder to properly respond;


(C) All bids will be opened at the time and place prescribed in the invitation for bids. For local governments, the bids must be opened publicly.


(D) A firm-fixed-price contract is awarded in writing to the lowest responsive bid and responsible bidder. When specified in the invitation for bids, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life-cycle costs must be considered in determining which bid is the lowest. Payment discounts must only be used to determine the low bid when the recipient or subrecipient determines they are a valid factor based on prior experience.


(E) The recipient or subrecipient must document and provide a justification for all bids it rejects.


(2) *Proposals.* This is a procurement method used when conditions are not appropriate for using sealed bids. This procurement method may result in either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contract. They are awarded in accordance with the following requirements:


(i) Requests for proposals require public notice, and all evaluation factors and their relative importance must be identified. Proposals must be solicited from multiple qualified entities. To the maximum extent practicable, any proposals submitted in response to the public notice must be considered.


(ii) The recipient or subrecipient must have written procedures for conducting technical evaluations and making selections.


(iii) Contracts must be awarded to the responsible offeror whose proposal is most advantageous to the recipient or subrecipient considering price and other factors; and


(iv) The recipient or subrecipient may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services whereby the offeror's qualifications are evaluated, and the most qualified offeror is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation. The method, where the price is not used as a selection factor, can only be used to procure architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services. The method may not be used to purchase other services provided by A/E firms that are a potential source to perform the proposed effort.


(c) *Noncompetitive procurement.* There are specific circumstances in which the recipient or subrecipient may use a noncompetitive procurement method. The noncompetitive procurement method may only be used if one of the following circumstances applies:


(1) The aggregate amount of the procurement transaction does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold (see paragraph (a)(1) of this section);


(2) The procurement transaction can only be fulfilled by a single source;


(3) The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not permit a delay resulting from providing public notice of a competitive solicitation;


(4) The recipient or subrecipient requests in writing to use a noncompetitive procurement method, and the Federal agency or pass-through entity provides written approval; or


(5) After soliciting several sources, competition is determined inadequate.






