# § 37.92   Spirometry testing required for miners.

(a) *Voluntary tests.* Each operator must provide to all miners who are employed in or at any of its coal mines the opportunity to have a spirometry test and a respiratory assessment at no cost to the miner at least once every 5 years in accordance with this subpart. The tests will be available during a 6-month period that begins no less than 3.5 years and not more than 4.5 years from the end of the last 6-month period.


(b) *Mandatory tests.* Every operator must provide to each miner who begins work in or at a coal mine for the first time on or after August 1, 2014, spirometry testing and respiratory assessment at no cost to the miner in accordance with this subpart.


(1) Initial spirometry testing and respiratory assessment will be provided to all miners who begin work in or at a coal mine for the first time on or after August 1, 2014 within the first 30 days of their employment or within 30 days of approval of a plan to provide spirometry testing.


(2) A follow-up second spirometry test and respiratory assessment will be provided to the miner no later than 3 years after the initial spirometry if the miner is still engaged in coal mining.


(3) A third spirometry test and respiratory assessment will be provided no later than 2 years after the tests in paragraphs § 37.3(b)(2) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section if the chest radiograph shows evidence of pneumoconiosis as defined in § 37.3(b)(3) or if the second spirometry test results demonstrate a 15 percent or greater decline in the percent predicted FEV1 value since the initial (*i.e.,* baseline) test.


(i) Percent predicted FEV1 will be calculated according to prediction equations published in Spirometric Reference Values from a Sample of the General U.S. Population, American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, 159(1):179-187, January 1999 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 37.98).


(ii) A correction factor to Caucasian reference values will be applied when testing individuals of Asian descent as specified in the ATS Technical Standards: Spirometry in the Occupational Setting, p. 987 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 37.98).


(c) *Notification.* NIOSH will notify the miner when he or she is due to receive the second or third mandatory test under paragraph (b) of this section. NIOSH will notify the coal mine operator when the miner is to perform a second spirometry test.


(1) The operator will be notified of a miner's eligibility for a third test only with the miner's written consent. The notice to the operator will not state the medical reason for the test or that it is the third test in the series.


(2) If the miner is notified by NIOSH that the third mandatory test is due and the operator is not so notified, availability of spirometry testing under the NIOSH-approved operator's plan will constitute the operator's compliance with the requirement to provide a third spirometry test even if the miner does not take the test.


(d) *Availability of spirometry testing.* The opportunity for spirometry to be available for purposes of this subpart must be indicated in an operator's plan that has been submitted and approved in accordance with this subpart.



---

[N] [81 FR 73286, Oct. 24, 2016]




