# ยง 62.22   Definitions.

The definitions in ยง 62.2 of this part will apply for the purpose of this subpart, except for the definition of *approved graduate training.* The following definitions will also apply for purposes of this subpart:


*Approved graduate training* means a program of graduate training in allopathic or osteopathic medicine, dentistry or other health profession which (a) leads to eligibility for board certification or which provides other evidence of completion, (b) has been approved by the appropriate health professions body as determined by the Secretary and (c) is in the specialty or type of training specified by the Program participant in the Loan Repayment Program Contract or, at the Program participant's request and at the Secretary's option, is in a specialty or area of training determined by the Secretary to be consistent with the needs of the National Health Service Corps.


*Commercial loans* means loans made by banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, insurance companies, schools, and other financial or credit institutions which are subject to examination and supervision in their capacity as lenders by an agency of the United States or of the State in which the lender has its principal place of business.


*Educational expenses* means the costs of the health professions education, exclusive of the tuition, such as fees, books, supplies, and educational equipment and materials.


*Government loans* means loans which are made by Federal, State, county or city agencies which are authorized by law to make such loans.


*Living expenses* means the costs of room and board, transportation and commuting costs and other costs incurred during an individual's attendance at a health professions school.


*Loan Repayment Program* means the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program authorized by section 338B of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2541-1).


*Loan Repayment Program Contract* means the agreement, which is signed by an applicant and the Secretary, for the Loan Repayment Program wherein the applicant agrees to accept repayment of health professions educational loans and to serve in accordance with the provisions of section 338B of the Act and this subpart for a prescribed period of obligated service.


*Medically underserved area* means *health manpower shortage area* as defined in ยง 62.2.


*Program participant* means an individual whose application to the Loan Repayment Program has been approved and whose contract has been accepted and signed by the Secretary.


*Qualifying loans* means government and commercial loans for actual costs paid for tuition, reasonable educational expenses, and reasonable living expenses relating to the obtainment of a degree in allopathic or osteopathic medicine, dentistry, or other health profession. Such loans must have documentation which is contemporaneous with the training received in a health professions school. If health professions educational loans are refinanced, the original documentation of the loan(s) will be required to be submitted to the Secretary to establish the contemporaneous nature of such loans.


*Reasonable educational and living expenses* means those educational and living expenses which are equal to or less than the sum of the school's estimated standard student budgets for educational and living expenses for the degree program and for the year(s) during which the Program participant is/was enrolled in the school. However, if the school attended by the Program participant does/did not have a standard student budget or if a Program participant requests repayment for educational and living expenses which are in excess of the standard student budgets described in the preceding sentence, the Program participant must submit documentation, as required by the Secretary, to substantiate the reasonableness of all educational and living expenses incurred by the Program participant. To the extent that the Secretary determines, upon review of the Program participant's documentation, that all or a portion of the educational and living expenses are reasonable, these expenses will qualify for repayment.




