# § 422.618   How an MA organization must effectuate standard reconsidered determinations or decisions.

(a) *Reversals by the MA organization*—(1) *Requests for service.* If, on reconsideration of a request for service, the MA organization completely reverses its organization determination, the organization must authorize or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 30 calendar days after the date the MA organization receives the request for reconsideration (or no later than upon expiration of an extension described in § 422.590(f)).


(2) *Requests for payment.* If, on reconsideration of a request for payment, the MA organization completely reverses its organization determination, the organization must pay for the service no later than 60 calendar days after the date the MA organization receives the request for reconsideration.


(3) *Requests for a Part B drug.* If, on reconsideration of a request for a Part B drug, the MA organization completely reverses its organization determination, the MA organization must authorize or provide the Part B drug under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 7 calendar days after the date the MA organization receives the request for reconsideration.


(b) *Reversals by the independent outside entity*—(1) *Requests for service.* If, on reconsideration of a request for service, the MA organization's determination is reversed in whole or in part by the independent outside entity, the MA organization must authorize the service under dispute within 72 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination, or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 14 calendar days from that date. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision.


(2) *Requests for payment.* If, on reconsideration of a request for payment, the MA organization's determination is reversed in whole or in part by the independent outside entity, the MA organization must pay for the service no later than 30 calendar days from the date it receives notice reversing the organization determination. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision. 


(3) *Requests for a Part B drug.* If, on reconsideration of a request for a Part B drug, the MA organization's determination is reversed in whole or in part by the independent outside entity, the MA organization must authorize or provide the Part B drug under dispute within 72 hours from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision.


(c) *Reversals other than by the MA organization or the independent outside entity*—(1) *General rule.* If the independent outside entity's determination is reversed in whole or in part by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or at a higher level of appeal, the MA organization must pay for, authorize, or provide the service under dispute as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 60 calendar days from the date it receives notice reversing the determination. The MA organization must inform the independent outside entity that the organization has effectuated the decision or that it has appealed the decision.


(2) *Effectuation exception when the MA organization files an appeal with the Council.* If the MA organization requests Council review consistent with § 422.608, the MA organization may await the outcome of the review before it pays for, authorizes, or provides the service under dispute. A MA organization that files an appeal with the Council must concurrently send a copy of its appeal request and any accompanying documents to the enrollee and must notify the independent outside entity that it has requested an appeal.



---

[N] [63 FR 35107, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40331, June 29, 2000; 68 FR 50858, Aug. 22, 2003; 80 FR 7962, Feb. 12, 2015; 82 FR 5125, Jan. 17, 2017; 84 FR 23882, May 23, 2019]




