# § 410.54   Mental health counselor services.

(a) *Definition: mental health counselor.* For purposes of this part, a *mental health counselor* is defined as an individual who—


(1) Possesses a master's or doctor's degree which qualifies for licensure or certification as a mental health counselor, clinical professional counselor, professional counselor under the State law of the State in which such individual furnishes the services defined as mental health counselor services;


(2) After obtaining such a degree, has performed at least 2 years or 3,000 hours of post master's degree clinical supervised experience in mental health counseling in an appropriate setting such as a hospital, SNF, private practice, or clinic; and


(3) Is licensed or certified as a mental health counselor, clinical professional counselor, professional counselor by the State in which the services are performed.


(b) *Covered mental health counselor services.* Medicare Part B covers mental health counselor services.


(1) *Definition: Mental health counselor services* means services furnished by a mental health counselor (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) for the diagnosis and treatment of mental illnesses (other than services furnished to an inpatient of a hospital), which the mental health counselor is legally authorized to perform under State law (or the State regulatory mechanism provided by State law) of the State in which such services are furnished. The services must be of a type that would be covered if they were furnished by a physician or as an incident to a physician's professional service and must meet the requirements of this section.


(2) *Exception.* The following services are not mental health counselor services for purposes of billing Medicare Part B:


(i) Services furnished by a mental health counselor to an inpatient of a Medicare-participating hospital.


(ii) [Reserved]


(c) *Prohibited billing.* (1) A mental health counselor may not bill Medicare for the services specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) A mental health counselor or an attending or primary care physician may not bill Medicare or the beneficiary for the consultation that is required under paragraph(b)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 79527, Nov. 16, 2023]






