# § 300.21   Definitions.

In addition to the terms defined in § 300.2, in the Act, the Convention for the Establishment of an Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (Convention), and the Convention for the Strengthening of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission Established by the 1949 Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Costa Rica (Antigua Convention), the terms used in this subpart have the following meanings. If a term is defined differently in § 300.2, in the Act, or in the Antigua Convention, the definition in this section shall apply.




*Activation of a satellite buoy* means the act of initializing network service for receiving the satellite buoy's position. Activation is done by the buoy supplier company at the request of the vessel owner or manager. Following activation, the vessel owner pays for the communication service. The buoy can be transmitting or not, depending if it has been switched on.








*Active FAD* means a FAD deployed at sea where activation of the satellite buoy has occurred and the satellite buoy is transmitting its location and is being tracked by the vessel owner or operator. A FAD shall be considered an Active FAD unless/until the vessel owner or operator is no longer tracking its location and the vessel owner or operator notifies the IATTC that the FAD is deactivated.


*Biodegradable* means non-synthetic materials and/or bio-based alternatives that are consistent with approved international standards for materials that are biodegradable in marine environments. The components resulting from the degradation of these materials should not be damaging to the marine and coastal ecosystems or include heavy metals or plastics in their composition. Examples of non-synthetic materials include plant-based materials such as cotton, jute, manila hemp (abaca), bamboo, and natural rubber; and animal-based materials such as leather, wool, and lard. The approved international standards are ASTM D6691, ASTM D7881, and TUV Austria.






*Commercial* with respect to commercial fishing, means fishing in which the fish harvested, either in whole or in part, are intended to enter commerce through sale, barter or trade.


*Commercial passenger fishing vessel* means any vessel licensed for commercial passenger fishing purposes within the State out of which it is operating and from which, while under charter or hire, persons are legally permitted to conduct sportfishing activities.






*Convention Area* or *IATTC Convention Area* means all waters of the Pacific Ocean within the area bounded by the west coast of the Americas and by 50° N latitude from the coast of North America to its intersection with 150° W longitude, then 150° W longitude to its intersection with 50° S latitude, and then 50° S latitude to its intersection with the coast of South America.








*Data buoy* means, for the purpose of § 300.25, a floating device, either drifting or anchored, which is deployed by one or more governmental or recognized scientific organizations or entities for the purpose of electronically collecting and measuring environmental data, and not for the purpose of fishing activities, and which has been reported to the IATTC by a Member or Cooperating non-Member of the Commission.




*Deactivation of a satellite buoy* means the act of canceling network service for receiving the satellite buoy's position. Deactivation is done by the buoy supplier company at the request of the vessel owner or manager. Following deactivation, the communication service is no longer paid for and the buoy stops transmitting.




*Dolphin set* means a purse seine set where a class size 6 U.S. purse seine vessel (greater than 363 metric tons carrying capacity) deploys a net on, or encircles, dolphins to catch yellowfin tuna.






*Fish aggregating device (FAD)* means anchored, drifting, floating or submerged objects deployed and/or tracked by vessels, including through the use of radio and/or satellite buoys, for the purpose of aggregating target tuna species for purse-seine fishing operations.








*Fishing trip* means a period that a fishing vessel spends at sea between port visits and during which any fishing occurs.


*Fishing vessel* means any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft that is used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type that is normally used for fishing or for assisting or supporting a vessel engaged in fishing, except purse seine skiffs. 


*Floating object* means any natural object or FAD around which fishing vessels may catch tuna.


*Floating object set* means a purse seine set in which purse seine gear is deployed to encircle a floating object.


*Force majeure* means, for the purpose of § 300.25, a situation in which a vessel at sea, except while transiting between ports on a trip during which no fishing operations occur, is disabled by mechanical and/or structural failure, fire or explosion.




*Highly Migratory Species (HMS) Branch* means the Chief of the HMS Branch of the Sustainable Fisheries Division, National Marine Fisheries Service West Coast Region, Suite 4200, 501 W Ocean Blvd., Long Beach, CA 90802, and *wcr.hms@noaa.gov.*

*Incidental catch* or *incidental species* means species caught while fishing with the primary purpose of catching a different species. An incidental catch is expressed as a percentage of the weight of the total fish on board.


*Land* or *Landing* means to begin transfer of fish from a fishing vessel. Once transfer begins, all fish on board the vessel are counted as part of the landing.


*Longline gear* means a type of fishing gear consisting of a main line that exceeds 1 nautical mile in length, is suspended horizontally in the water column anchored, floating, or attached to a vessel, and from which branch or dropper lines with hooks are attached.


*Mesh size* means the distance between the inside of one knot to the inside of the opposing knot when the mesh is stretched, regardless of twine size.


*Mobulid ray* means any animal in the family Mobulidae, which includes manta rays (*Manta spp.*) and devil rays (*Mobula spp.*).




*Non-entangling FAD* means a FAD that does not include any netting materials for any part of the FAD including both the surface structure (*e.g.,* raft) and subsurface structure (*e.g.,* tail).










*Observer* means an individual placed aboard a fishing vessel under the IATTC observer program or any other international observer program in which the United States may participate.


*Overall length* means registered length, or the horizontal distance between the outboard side of the foremost part of the stem and the outboard side of the aftermost part of the stern, excluding rudders, outboard motor brackets, and other similar fittings and attachments for a single-hull vessel; for a multi-hull vessel, it is the horizontal distance between the outboard side of the foremost part of the stem of the foremost hull and the outboard side of the aftermost part of the stern of the aftermost hull, excluding fittings or attachments (See 46 CFR 69.203).




*Reactivation of a satellite buoy* means the act of re-initializing network service for transmission of a satellite buoy's position after deactivation. The procedure is the same as the one to be followed for activation of a satellite buoy.






*Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator for the West Coast Region, National Marine Fisheries Service, or a designee.


*Regional Vessel Register (hereafter referred to as Vessel Register)* means the regional register of vessels authorized to fish for tuna and tuna-like species in the Convention Area, as established by the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission in June 2000.




*Satellite buoy* means a buoy that uses a satellite network service to indicate its geographical position and is compliant with requirements in § 300.28(a) to be clearly marked with a unique identification code.






*Shark line* means a type of fishing gear used to target sharks and consisting of an individual hooked line or hooked lines attached to the floatline or directly to the floats of longline gear and deployed in the water column at depths shallower than the mainline.




*Signal loss* means the situation in which, without any intervention of the owner, operator, or manager, a satellite buoy cannot be located by the owner on a monitoring device. The main causes of signal loss are buoy retrieved by another vessel or person (at-sea or on-shore), FAD sinking, and buoy failure.






*South Pacific Tuna Treaty* means the Treaty on Fisheries Between the Governments of Certain Pacific Island States and the Government of the United States of America (50 CFR part 300, subpart D).


*Sustainable Fisheries Division (SFD)* means the Assistant Regional Administrator for the Sustainable Fisheries Division, West Coast Region, National Marine Fisheries Service, or a designee.


*Tender vessel* means a vessel that does not engage in purse seine fishing but tends to FADs in support of tuna fishing operations.


*Transship* means to unload fish from a vessel that caught fish to another vessel.


*Transshipment receiving vessel* means any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft that is used to receive fish from a fishing vessel.


*Trip limit* means the total allowable amount of a species by weight of fish that may be retained on board, transshipped, or landed from a single fishing trip by a vessel that harvests tuna or tuna-like species.


*Tropical tuna* means any of the following species:


*Tuna* means any fish of the genus Thunnus and the species *Katsuwonus pelamis.*

*Vessel monitoring system (VMS)* means an automated, remote system that provides information about a vessel's identity, location and activity, for the purposes of routine monitoring, control, surveillance and enforcement of area and time restrictions and other fishery management measures.






*VMS unit,* sometimes known as a “mobile transmitting unit,” means a transceiver or communications device, including all hardware and software that is carried and operated on a vessel as part of a VMS.



---

[N] [61 FR 35550, July 5, 1996]




