# ยง 700.521   Outside work and interests.

Commission employees may engage in outside work or other activity which does not create a conflict between the employee's private interests and official duties nor prevent employees from devoting their talents and energies to the Commission. An employee's outside work shall not reflect discredit upon the Commission.


(a) Employees engaged in or considering outside employment shall inform their supervisor of the work, and supply such additional details as may be required to determine whether the employment is compatible with the full and proper discharge of the employee's official duties.


(b) Similarly, employees shall inform the supervisor and request approval of other types of outside activities which may present an actual or apparent conflict of interest between the employees' official duties and their private lives. The supervisor shall determine if the outside employment or activity is prohibited by these regulations, and so inform the employee. The Designated Agency Ethics Official is available to assist supervisors in making such determinations.


(c) *Guidelines and limitations.* Outside employment or other outside activity is incompatible with the full and proper discharge of an employee's duties and responsibilities and hence is prohibited if:


(1) It would involve the violation of a Federal or State statute, a local ordinance, Executive Order, or regulation to which the employee is subject.


(2) It would be of such extent or nature as to interfere with the efficient performance of the employee's Government duties, or impair the employee's mental or physical capacity to perform them in an acceptable manner.


(3) It would tend to influence the exercise or impartial judgement on any matters coming before the employee in the course of his or her duties;


(4) It would involve work for contractors, subcontractors, realtors, tribal offices, clients or other entities and individuals which have business with or receive services from the Commission or conduct activities which are regulated by the Commission.


(5) Involves a person or enterprise that may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the employee's official duties.


(6) It involves the use of the employee's time during official working hours.


(7) It involves the receipt of salary or anything of monetary value from a private source as compensation for services to the Government.


(8) It involves acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of expense, or any other thing of monetary value under circumstances in which acceptance might result in, or create the appearance of, a conflict of interest.


(9) It would be of a nature which might be construed by the general public to be an official act of the Commission, or would give the impression that a business or product which is involved in the relocation project is officially endorsed or approved by the Commission.


(10) It would involve use by the employee of official facilities, e.g., office space, office machines, or supplies, or the services of other employees during duty hours.


(11) It might bring discredit upon, or cause unfavorable criticism of, the Government or the Commission or lead to relationships which might impair public confidence in the integrity of the Government or the Commission.


(12) It would involve the use of information obtained as a result of Government employment that is not freely available to the general public in that it either has not been made available to the general public or would not be made available upon request.




