# § 413.3   Who must obtain a license or permit.

(a) A person must obtain a license in accordance with this section, unless eligible for an experimental permit under paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) A person must obtain a license to—


(1) Launch a launch vehicle from the United States;


(2) Operate a launch site within the United States;


(3) Reenter a reentry vehicle in the United States; or


(4) Operate a reentry site within the United States.


(c) A person who is a U.S. citizen or an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any State must obtain a license to—


(1) Launch a launch vehicle outside the United States;


(2) Operate a launch site outside the United States;


(3) Reenter a reentry vehicle outside the United States; or


(4) Operate a reentry site outside the United States.


(d) A foreign entity in which a United States citizen has a controlling interest must obtain a license to launch a launch vehicle from or to operate a launch site in—


(1) Any place that is outside the territory or territorial waters of any nation, unless there is an agreement in force between the United States and a foreign nation providing that such foreign nation has jurisdiction over the launch or the operation of the launch site; or


(2) The territory of any foreign nation, including its territorial waters, if there is an agreement in force between the United States and that foreign nation providing that the United States has jurisdiction over the launch or the operation of the launch site.


(e) A foreign entity in which a U.S. citizen has a controlling interest must obtain a license to reenter a reentry vehicle or to operate a reentry site in—


(1) Any place that is outside the territory or territorial waters of any nation, unless there is an agreement in force between the United States and a foreign nation providing that such foreign nation has jurisdiction over the reentry or the operation of the reentry site; or


(2) The territory of any foreign nation if there is an agreement in force between the United States and that foreign nation providing that the United States has jurisdiction over the reentry or the operation of the reentry site.




(f) A person, individual, or foreign entity otherwise requiring a license under this section may instead obtain an experimental permit to launch or reenter a reusable suborbital vehicle under part 437 of this chapter.





---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2006-24197, 72 FR 17017, Apr. 6, 2007, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2023-1656, Amdt. No. 413-13, 89 FR 76726, Sept. 19, 2024]








