# § 579.28   Due date of reports and other miscellaneous provisions.

(a) *Initial submission of reports.* Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, the first calendar quarter for which reports are required under §§ 579.21 through 579.27 of this subpart is the third calendar quarter of 2003.


(b) *Due date of reports.* Except as provided in subsection (n) of this section, each manufacturer of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment shall submit each report that is required by this subpart not later than 60 days after the last day of the reporting period. Except as provided in § 579.27(b), if a manufacturer has not received any of the categories of information or documents during a quarter for which it is required to report pursuant to §§ 579.21 through 579.26, the manufacturer's report must indicate that no relevant information or documents were received during that quarter. If the due date for any report is a Saturday, Sunday or a Federal holiday, the report shall be due on the next business day.


(c) One-time reporting of historical information. (1) No later than January 15, 2004: 


(i) Each manufacturer of vehicles covered by §§ 579.21 through 579.24 of this part shall file separate reports providing information on the numbers of warranty claims recorded in the manufacturer's warranty system, and field reports, that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for vehicles manufactured in model years 1994 through 2003 (including any vehicle designated as a 2004 model);


(ii) Each manufacturer of child restraint systems covered by § 579.25 of this part shall file separate reports covering the numbers of warranty claims recorded in the manufacturer's warranty system and consumer complaints (added together), and field reports, that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for child restraint systems manufactured from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 2003, and


(iii) Each manufacturer of tires covered by § 579.26 of this part shall file separate reports covering the numbers of warranty adjustments recorded in the manufacturer's warranty adjustment system for tires that it received in each calendar quarter from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, for tires manufactured from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 2003.


(2) Each report filed under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall include production data, as specified in paragraph (a) of 579.21 through 579.26 of this part and shall identify the alleged system or component covered by warranty claim, warranty adjustment, or field report as specified in paragraph (c) of 579.21 through 579.26 of this part. 


(d) *Minimal specificity.* A claim or notice involving death, a claim or notice involving injury, a claim involving property damage, a consumer complaint, a warranty claim or warranty adjustment, or a field report need not be reported if it does not identify the vehicle or equipment with minimal specificity. If a manufacturer initially receives a claim, notice, complaint, warranty claim, warranty adjustment, or field report in which the vehicle or equipment is not identified with minimal specificity and subsequently obtains information that provides the requisite information needed to identify the product with minimal specificity, the claim, etc. shall be deemed to have been received when the additional information is received. If a manufacturer receives a claim or notice involving death or injury in which the vehicle or equipment is not identified with minimal specificity and the matter is being handled by legal counsel retained by the manufacturer, the manufacturer shall attempt to obtain the missing minimal specificity information from such counsel. 


(e) *Claims received by registered agents.* A claim received by any registered agent of a manufacturer under the laws of any State, or the agent that any manufacturer offering motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for import has designated pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30164(a), shall be deemed received by the manufacturer. 


(f) *Updating of information required in reports.* (1) Except as specified in this subsection, a manufacturer need not update its reports under this subpart. 


(2) With respect to each report of an incident submitted under paragraph (b) of §§ 579.21 through 579.26 of this part: 


(i) If a vehicle manufacturer is not aware of the VIN, or a tire manufacturer is not aware of the TIN, at the time the incident is initially reported, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the VIN or TIN is identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the VIN or TIN is identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA.


(ii) If a manufacturer indicated code 99 in its report because a system or component had not been identified in the claim or notice that led to the report, and the manufacturer becomes aware during a subsequent calendar quarter that one or more of the specified systems or components allegedly contributed to the incident, the manufacturer shall submit an updated report of such incident in its report covering the reporting period in which the involved specified system(s) or component(s) is (are) identified. A manufacturer need not submit an updated report if the system(s) or component(s) is(are) identified by the manufacturer in a reporting period that is more than one year later than the initial report to NHTSA.


(iii) If one or more systems or components is identified in a manufacturer's report of an incident, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to reflect additional systems or components allegedly involved in the incident that it becomes aware of in a subsequent reporting period. 


(iv) If the report is of an incident involving an injury and an injured person dies after a manufacturer has reported the injury to NHTSA, the manufacturer need not submit an updated report to NHTSA reflecting that death. 


(g) *When a report involving a death is not required.* A report on incident(s) involving one or more deaths occurring in a foreign country that is identified in claim(s) against a manufacturer of motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment involving a vehicle or equipment that is identical or substantially similar to equipment that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States need not be furnished if the claim specifically alleges that the death was caused by a possible defect in a component other than one that is common to the vehicle or equipment that the manufacturer has offered for sale in the United States. 


(h) *When a report involving a claim or notice is not required.* If a manufacturer has reported a claim or notice relating to an incident involving death or injury, the manufacturer need not:


(1) Report a claim or notice arising out of the incident by a person who was not injured physically, and


(2) Include in its number of property damage claims a property damage claim arising out of the incident.


(i) *Reporting on behalf of other manufacturers.* Whenever a fabricating manufacturer or importer submits a report on behalf of one or more other manufacturers (including a brand name owner), as authorized under § 579.3(b) of this part, the submitting manufacturer must identify each such other manufacturer. Whenever a brand name owner submits a report on its own behalf, it must identify the fabricating manufacturer of each separate product on which it is reporting. 


(j) *Abbreviations.* Whenever a manufacturer is required to identify a State in which an incident occurred, the manufacturer shall use the two-letter abbreviations established by the United States Postal Service (e.g., AZ for Arizona). Whenever a manufacturer is required to identify a foreign country in which an incident occurred, the manufacturer shall use the English-language name of the country in non-abbreviated form. 


(k) *Claims of confidentiality.* If a manufacturer claims that any of the information, data, or documents that it submits is entitled to confidential treatment, it must make such claim in accordance with part 512 of this chapter. 


(l) *Additional related information that NHTSA may request.* In addition to information required periodically under this subpart, NHTSA may request other information that may help identify a defect related to motor vehicle safety. 


(m) *Use of the plural.* As used in this part, the plural includes the singular and the singular includes the plural to bring within the scope of reporting that which might otherwise be construed to be without the scope. 


(n) *Submission of copies of field reports.* Copies of field reports required under this subpart shall be submitted not later than 15 days after reports are due pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [67 FR 45873, July 10, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 18143, Apr. 15, 2003; 68 FR 20225, Apr. 24, 2003; 68 FR 35144, 35148, June 11, 2003; 68 FR 64569, Nov. 14, 2003; 69 FR 57869, Sept. 28, 2004; 70 FR 2023, Jan. 12, 2005; 72 FR 29444, May 29, 2007]




