# § 121.427   Recurrent training.

(a) Recurrent training must ensure that each crewmember or aircraft dispatcher is adequately trained and currently proficient with respect to the type airplane (including differences training, if applicable) and crewmember position involved.


(b) Recurrent ground training for crewmembers and dispatchers must include at least the following: 


(1) A quiz or other review to determine the state of the crewmember's or dispatcher's knowledge with respect to the airplane and position involved. 


(2) Instruction as necessary in the following:


(i) For pilots, the subjects required for ground training by §§ 121.415(a)(1), (3), and (4) and 121.419(b);


(ii) For flight engineers, the subjects required for ground training by §§ 121.415(a)(1), (3), and (4) and 121.419(a);


(iii) For flight attendants, the subjects required for ground training by §§ 121.415(a)(1), (3), and (4) and 121.421(a); and


(iv) For aircraft dispatchers, the subjects required for ground training by §§ 121.415(a)(1) and (4) and 121.422(a).


(3) For flight attendants and dispatchers, a competence check as required by §§ 121.421(b) and 121.422(b), respectively. 


(4) For crewmembers, CRM training and for aircraft dispatchers, DRM training. For flightcrew members, CRM training or portions thereof may be accomplished during an approved FFS line-oriented flight training (LOFT) session.


(c) Recurrent ground training for crewmembers and aircraft dispatchers must consist of at least the following programmed hours of instruction in the required subjects specified in paragraph (b) of this section unless reduced under § 121.405:


(1) For pilots—


(i) Group I reciprocating powered airplanes, 15 hours;


(ii) Group I turbopropeller powered airplanes, 19 hours; and


(iii) Group II airplanes, 24 hours.


(2) For flight engineers—


(i) Group I, reciprocating powered airplanes, 16 hours;


(ii) Group I turbopropeller powered airplanes, 20 hours; and


(iii) Group II airplanes, 25 hours.


(3) For flight attendants—


(i) Group I reciprocating powered airplanes, 4 hours;


(ii) Group I turbopropeller powered airplanes, 5 hours; and


(iii) Group II airplanes, 12 hours.


(4) For aircraft dispatchers—


(i) Group I reciprocating powered airplanes, 8 hours;


(ii) Group I turbopropeller powered airplanes, 10 hours; and


(iii) Group II airplanes, 20 hours.


(d) Recurrent ground training for pilots serving as pilot in command:


(1) Within 36 months preceding service as pilot in command, each person must complete recurrent ground training on leadership and command and mentoring. This training is in addition to the ground training required in paragraph (b) of this section and the programmed hours required in paragraph (c) of this section. This training must include instruction and facilitated discussion on the following:


(i) Leadership and command, including instruction on flightcrew member duties under § 121.542; and


(ii) Mentoring, including techniques for instilling and reinforcing the highest standards of technical performance, airmanship, and professionalism in newly hired pilots.


(2) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1) do not apply until after a pilot has completed ground training on leadership and command and mentoring, as required by §§ 121.419, 121.420 and 121.429, as applicable.


(e) Recurrent flight training for flightcrew members must include at least the following:


(1) For pilots—


(i) Extended envelope training as required by § 121.423 of this part; and


(ii) Flight training in an approved FFS in maneuvers and procedures set forth in the certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program and flight training in maneuvers and procedures set forth in Appendix F of this part, or in a flight training program approved by the Administrator, except as follows—


(A) The number of programmed inflight hours is not specified; and


(B) Satisfactory completion of a proficiency check may be substituted for recurrent flight training as permitted in § 121.433(c) and (d).


(2) For flight engineers, flight training as provided by § 121.425(a) except as follows—


(i) The specified number of inflight hours is not required; and 


(ii) The flight check, other than the preflight inspection, may be conducted in an FSTD. The preflight inspection may be conducted in an airplane, or by using an approved pictorial means that realistically portrays the location and detail of preflight inspection items and provides for the portrayal of abnormal conditions. Satisfactory completion of an approved line-oriented flight training may be substituted for the flight check.


(f) Recurrent programmed hours applicable to pilots as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include 30 additional minutes to meet the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 9509, 35 FR 90, Jan. 30, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 121-80, 36 FR 19362, Oct. 5, 1971; Amdt. 121-144, 43 FR 22647, May 25, 1978; Amdt.121-199, 53 FR 37697, Sept. 27, 1988; Amdt. 121-250, 60 FR 65949, Dec. 20, 1995; Amdt. 121-281, 66 FR 19043, Apr. 12, 2001; Amdt. 121-366, 78 FR 67840, Nov. 12, 2013; Amdt. 121-382, 85 FR 10924, Feb. 25, 2020; Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 121-392, 89 FR 51428, June 18, 2024]






