# § 247.30   Claims.

(a) *What happens if a State or local agency misuses program funds?* If FNS determines that a State or local agency has misused program funds through negligence, fraud, theft, embezzlement, or other causes, FNS must initiate and pursue a claim against the State agency to repay the amount of the misused funds. The State agency will be given the opportunity to contest the claim. The State agency is responsible for initiating and pursuing claims against subdistributing and local agencies if they misuse program funds.


(b) *What happens if a State or local agency misuses USDA Foods?* If a State or local agency misuses USDA Foods, FNS must initiate a claim against the State agency to recover the value of the misused USDA Foods. The procedures for pursuing claims resulting from misuse of USDA Foods are detailed in § 250.16(a) of this chapter. Misused USDA Foods include USDA Foods improperly distributed or lost, spoiled, stolen, or damaged as a result of improper storage, care, or handling. The State agency is responsible for initiating and pursuing claims against subdistributing agencies, local agencies, or other agencies or organizations if they misuse USDA Foods. The State agency must use funds recovered as a result of claims for USDA Foods losses in accordance with § 250.17(c) of this chapter.


(c) *What happens if a participant improperly receives or uses CSFP benefits through fraud?* The State agency must ensure that a local agency initiates a claim against a participant to recover the value of USDA Foods improperly received or used if the local agency determines that the participant or caretaker of the participant fraudulently received or used the USDA Foods. For purposes of this program, fraud includes intentionally making false or misleading statements, or intentionally withholding information, to obtain USDA Foods, or the selling or exchange of USDA Foods for non-food items. The local agency must advise the participant of the opportunity to appeal the claim through the fair hearing process, in accordance with § 247.33(a). The local agency must also disqualify the participant from CSFP for a period of up to one year, unless the local agency determines that disqualification would result in a serious health risk, in accordance with the requirements of § 247.20(b).


(d) *What procedures must be used in pursuing claims against participants?* The State agency must establish standards, based on a cost-benefit review, for determining when the pursuit of a claim is cost-effective, and must ensure that local agencies use these standards in determining if a claim is to be pursued. In pursuing a claim against a participant, the local agency must:


(1) Issue a letter demanding repayment for the value of the USDA Foods improperly received or used;


(2) If repayment is not made in a timely manner, take additional collection actions that are cost-effective, in accordance with the standards established by the State agency; and


(3) Maintain all records regarding claims actions taken against participants, in accordance with § 247.29.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 85 FR 68722, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]




