# § 1.6091-2   Place for filing income tax returns.

Except as provided in § 1.6091-3 (relating to certain international income tax returns) and § 1.6091-4 (relating to exceptional cases):


(a) *Individuals, estates, and trusts.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, income tax returns of individuals, estates, and trusts shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns at the local Internal Revenue Service office that serves the legal residence or principal place of business of the person required to make the return.


(2) An individual employed on a salary or commission basis who is not also engaged in conducting a commercial or professional enterprise for profit on his own account does not have a “principal place of business” within the meaning of this section.


(b) *Corporations.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, income tax returns of corporations shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office that serves the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the corporation.


(c) *Returns filed with service centers.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, whenever instructions applicable to income tax returns provide that the returns be filed with a service center, the returns must be so filed in accordance with the instructions.


(d) *Hand-carried returns.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 6091(b) and paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) *Persons other than corporations.* Returns of persons other than corporations which are filed by hand carrying shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive hand-carried returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Corporations.* Returns of corporations which are filed by hand carrying shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive hand-carried returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) *Amended returns.* In the case of amended returns filed after April 14, 1968, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section:


(1) *Persons other than corporations.* Amended returns of persons other than corporations shall be filed with the service center serving the legal residence or principal place of business of the person required to make the return.


(2) *Corporations.* Amended returns of corporations shall be filed with the service center serving the principal place of business or principal office or agency of the corporation.


(f) *Returns of persons subject to a termination assessment.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) *Persons other than corporations.* Returns of persons other than corporations with respect to whom an assessment was made under section 6851(a) with respect to the taxable year shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Corporations.* Returns of corporations with respect to whom an assessment was made under section 6851(a) with respect to the taxable year shall be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(g) *Returns of persons subject to a termination assessment.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, income tax returns of persons with respect to whom an income tax assessment was made under section 6852(a) with respect to the taxable year must be filed with any person assigned the responsibility to receive returns in the local Internal Revenue Service office as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 6950, 33 FR 5356, Apr. 4, 1968, as amended by T.D. 7012, 34 FR 7690, May 15, 1969; T.D. 7495, 42 FR 33726, July 1, 1977; T.D. 7575, 43 FR 58816, Dec. 18, 1978; T.D. 8628, 60 FR 62210, Dec. 5, 1995; T.D. 9156, 69 FR 55744, Sept. 16, 2004; 69 FR 60222, Oct. 7, 2004]




