# § 386.6   Floodplain management.

(a) In making WIFIA funding decisions under this part, the Corps will follow the requirements of Executive Order (E.O.) 11988, as amended by E.O. 13690, and Engineering Regulation (ER) 1165-2-26, “Implementation of E.O. 11988 on Floodplain Management”. Applicants shall submit information regarding the project that is sufficient for the Corps to determine that the project is in compliance with the requirements of E.O. 11988 and ER 1165-2-26.


(b) Projects funded under this part will meet or exceed applicable State, local, Tribal, and territorial standards for flood risk and floodplain management, as well as E.O. 11988.


(c) All projects under this part are considered Federal actions under E.O. 11988 and thus, project applicants shall determine whether the proposed project will occur in the floodplain. If the project is located within the floodplain, the applicant must determine whether the action is critical or not and what floodplain standard to follow. The Corps will implement the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard (FFRMS), where appropriate, which is a flood standard established by E.O. 13690, that aims to build a more resilient future through the encouragement of consideration of current and future risk when Federal investments are used to build or rebuild near floodplains. The Corps will ensure unwise uses are avoided, where possible, including the increase or transfer of flood risks, resulting in adverse impacts to human health, safety, welfare, property, natural resources, or functions of floodplains. Further guidance on implementation of E.O. 11988 can be found in the Corps ER 1165-2-26 (30 March 1984). Further information on FFRMS can be found at *https://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/Missions/Flood-Risk-Management/Flood-Risk-Management-Program/About-the-Program/Policy-and-Guidance/Federal-Flood-Risk-Management-Standard/.*

