# § 17.8   Ocean transportation.

(a) *General.* (1) This section applies to the financing of ocean freight or ocean freight differential. Ocean freight will be financed by CCC only to the extent specifically provided for in the purchase authorization. The purchase authorization may provide requirements in addition to or in lieu of those specified in this section.


(2) The supplier of ocean transportation must be engaged in the business of furnishing ocean transportation from the United States and must have a person, principal or agent, on whom service of judicial process may be had in the United States.


(3) The quantity of the commodity which must be shipped on privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessels will be determined by the Director.


(4) The supplier of ocean transportation shall release copies of the ocean bills of lading to the supplier of the commodity promptly upon completion of loading of the vessel.


(5) When CCC finances any part of the ocean freight or the ocean freight differential, the participant must open an operable irrevocable letter of credit for the portion of the ocean freight not financed by CCC. All banking institution charges, such as commissions, expenses, etc., are for the account of the participant. The amount of the letter of credit shall be computed using the information provided in the Form CCC-106. The letter of credit shall provide for sight payment or acceptance of a draft, payable in U.S. dollars, on the basis of the quantities specified in the applicable ocean freight contract. If the supplier of ocean transportation accepts the commodity before receipt of an acceptable letter of credit from a bank, the supplier takes such action at its own risk. This action in itself does not affect eligibility for CCC financing.


(b) *Contracting procedures*—(1) *Invitations for Bids* (*IFB's*). (i) Public freight “Invitations for Bids” are required in the solicitation of freight offers from all U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels when CCC is financing any portion of the ocean freight.


(ii) For non-U.S. flag vessels when CCC is not financing any portion of the ocean freight, public freight IFB's are also required unless otherwise authorized by the Director, or unless the participant requires the use of vessels under its flag, the flag of the destination country, or other non-U.S. flag vessels under its control. Vessels considered to be under the control of the participant or the destination country include vessels under time charters, bare boat charters, consecutive voyage charters, or other contractual arrangements for the carriage of commodities which provide guaranteed access to vessels.


(iii) Prior to release to the trade, all freight IFB's must be submitted to the Director for approval. Freight IFB's must be issued by means of Bridge News, New York, plus at least one other means of communication.


(iv) All freight IFB's must:


(A) Specify a closing time for the receipt of offers and state that late offers will not be considered;


(B) Provide that offers are required to have a canceling date no later than the last contract layday specified in the IFB;


(C) Provide the same deadline for receipt of offers from both U.S. flag vessels and non-U.S. flag vessels;


(D) Stipulate the responsibility for each party for payment of any costs not eligible for financing by CCC (in the IFB or the pro forma charter party).


(2) *Competitive bidding.* When CCC is financing any portion of the freight, all offers shall be opened in public in the United States at the time and place specified in the IFB. Offers shall be opened prior to receipt of offers for the sale of commodities as the Director determines appropriate. Only offers which are responsive to the IFB may be considered, and no negotiation shall be permitted.


(3) *Records of offers.* Copies of all offers received must be promptly furnished to the Director, who may require the participant, or its shipping agent, to submit a written certification to the GSM that all offers received (with the times of receipt designated thereon) were transmitted to the Department. For purposes of this paragraph “time of receipt” shall be the time a hand-carried offer or a mailed offer was received at the designated location for presentation or, if transmitted electronically, the time the offer was received, as supported by evidence satisfactory to the Director.


(4) *Re-tenders.* The Director may permit or require a participant to refuse any and all bids, and in such case a participant may conduct a re-tender with the approval of the Director. The Director shall not approve or require freight re-tenders unless they will increase the likelihood of meeting U.S. flag cargo preference requirements, will permit the desired quantity to be shipped, will likely result in reduced CCC expenditures, or are otherwise determined to be in the best interest of the program.


(c) *Request for vessel approval.* The pertinent terms of all proposed charters and all proposed liner bookings, regardless of whether any portion of ocean freight is financed by CCC, must be submitted to the Director for review and approval before fixture of the vessel. Tentative advance vessel approvals may be obtained by telephone provided Form CCC-105, “Ocean Shipment Data—Pub. L. 480 (Request for Vessel Approval)”, is furnished promptly confirming the information supplied by telephone. The Form CCC-105 shall be submitted in duplicate to the Director.


(d) *Advice of vessel approval.* (1) USDA will give written approval of charters and liner bookings on Form CCC-106, “Advice of Vessel Approval.” The Form CCC-106 will state whether CCC will finance any part of the ocean freight. For f.a.s. or f.o.b. shipments, CCC will issue a signed original of Form CCC-106 to the ocean carrier when CCC finances any part of the ocean freight. For c.& f. or c.i.f. shipments, CCC will issue Form CCC-106 to the supplier of commodity.


(2) If CCC agrees to finance any portion of the ocean freight, the participant or its agent shall forward a copy of the ocean freight contract immediately after execution to the Director for review and approval prior to issuance of Form CCC-106.


(3) CCC may also require the supplier of ocean transportation to submit copies of lightening, stevedoring, or bagging contracts for any voyage for which CCC finances ocean freight or ocean freight differential.


(e) *Special charter party provisions required when any part of ocean freight is financed by CCC.* This paragraph applies when CCC finances any part of the ocean freight for commodities booked on charter terms. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the regulations in this part and the charter party or ocean bills of lading issued pursuant thereto, the provisions of the regulations in this part shall prevail. The charter party shall contain or, for the purpose of financing pursuant to the regulations in this part, be deemed to contain the following provisions:


(1) That if there is any failure on the part of the supplier of ocean transportation to perform the charter party after the vessel has tendered at the loading port, the charterer shall be entitled to incur all expenses which in the judgment of the General Sales Manager are required to enable the vessel to carry out her obligations under the charter party including, but not limited to, expenses for lifting any liens asserted against the vessel.


(2) That, notwithstanding any prior assignments of freight made by the owner or operator, the expenses authorized in paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be deducted from the freight earned under the charter party.


(3) That ocean freight is earned and that 100% thereof is payable by the charterers when the vessel and cargo arrive at the first port of discharge, subject to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and to the further condition that if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section results in the loss of part of the vessel's cargo, 100% of the ocean freight is payable on the part so lost. This provision does not relieve the carrier of the obligation to carry to other points of discharge if so required by the charter party.


(4) That if a force majeure as described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section prevents the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge, the freight shall be payable by the charterer at the time the General Sales Manager determines that such force majeure was the cause of nonarrival.


(5) That laydays are non-reversible.


(6) That in a dispute involving any rights and obligations of CCC, including rights and obligations as successor or assignee, which cannot be settled by agreement, the dispute shall not be subject to arbitration.


(f) *Special charter party information required when any part of ocean freight is financed by CCC.* When CCC finances any part of the ocean freight for commodities booked on charter terms, the charter party shall contain the following information:


(1) The name of each party participating in the ocean freight brokerage commission, if any, and the percentage thereof payable to each party;


(2) The name of the vessel and the name of the substitute vessel, if any.


(g) *Notice of arrival.* Each Form CCC-106 will indicate whether a notice of arrival is required. A notice of arrival, when required, must be furnished promptly by the participant or its designated agent or other source acceptable to CCC (excluding the carrier or its agent) and must include the name of the vessel, the purchase authorization number, the first port of discharge, and the date of arrival. The notice of arrival of the vessel also constitutes prima facie evidence of arrival of the cargo.


(h) *Foreign flag vessels.* The cost of ocean transportation will be financed by CCC on non-U.S. flag vessels only when, and to the extent, specifically provided in the applicable purchase authorization.


(i) *U.S.-flag vessels.* When a commodity is required to be shipped on a privately owned U.S.-flag commercial vessel, Form CCC-106 will set forth:


(1) The rate of the ocean freight differential, if any, which the Director determines to exist between the prevailing foreign-flag vessel rate and the U.S.-flag vessel rate; and


(2) The approximate tonnage for which CCC will authorize reimbursement of ocean freight or ocean freight differential, as appropriate.


(j) *Items not eligible for financing by CCC.* The following costs will not be financed by CCC, either separately or as part of the commodity contract price:


(1) Loading, trimming, and other related shipping expenses unless included in the ocean freight rate;


(2) Discharge costs unless included in the ocean freight rate;


(3) The cost of “dead freight”;


(4) Cargo dues and taxes assessed by the importing or recipient country;


(5) Surcharges assessed by steamship conferences or carriers, unless specifically authorized by the Director;


(6) General average contributions;


(7) Stevedoring overtime and vessel crew overtime;


(8) Ship's disbursements;


(9) Any payments prohibited in § 17.6 (b) and (c); and


(10) Detention.


(k) *General financing provisions.* When any part of ocean freight will be financed either separately or as part of the commodity contract price, the following shall apply:


(1) Ocean freight contracts must show the ocean freight rate from one loading port to one discharge port, and may provide for an increase in rate for an additional port of loading or discharge, or other option. CCC, however, will finance initially the lowest such rate or OFD, as appropriate. Increased amounts due because of the exercise of such option will be financed only after receipt of an ocean bill of lading or other evidence showing that the option was exercised.


(2) In the case of transshipment to a foreign flag vessel, CCC will finance the ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, only to the point of transshipment, at a rate determined by the GSM, and CCC will not finance any part of the ocean freight beyond the point of transshipment unless specifically approved by the GSM. If the commodity was transported from a U.S. port and was transshipped at another U.S. port, CCC will not finance, without prior approval of the GSM, any part of the ocean freight incurred before transshipment.


(3) The ocean freight rate eligible for CCC financing and the rate used for the U.S.-flag vessel in calculating ocean freight differential shall not exceed the following rates for the category of the vessel concerned:


(i) For commodities covered by published tariff rates—the published conference contract rate;


(ii) For other commodities—the market rate prevailing at the time of request for approval as determined by the Director, but in any event not in excess of rates charged other shippers (irrespective of booking dates) for like commodities on the voyage concerned.


(4) Payment will be made for ocean freight or OFD, as appropriate, from loading points to discharge points at rates approved by the Director on Form CCC-106 in conformity with paragraph (k)(3) of this section.


(5) Freight for a vessel designated on Form CCC-106 as a U.S. flag vessel shall not be eligible for financing unless such vessel complies with the provisions of Pub. L. 87-266.


(6) Ocean freight contracts must specify that the participant shall be liable for detention of the vessel for loading delays attributable solely to the decision of the supplier of ocean transportation not to commence loading because of the failure of the participant to establish an ocean freight letter of credit in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section. However, ocean freight contracts may not contain a specified detention rate. The ocean transportation supplier shall be entitled to reimbursement for detention costs for all time so lost, for each calendar day or any part of the calendar day, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The period of such delay shall not commence earlier than upon presentation of the vessel at the designated loading port within the laydays specified in the ocean freight contract, and upon notification of the vessel's readiness to load in accordance with the terms of the applicable ocean freight contract. The period of such delay shall end at the time that operable irrevocable letters of credit have been established for the applicable ocean freight or the time the vessel begins loading, whichever is earlier. Time calculated as detention shall not count as laytime. Reimbursement for such detention shall be payable no later than upon the vessel's arrival at the first port of discharge.


(l) *Force majeure.* (1) The GSM will waive the requirement for the notice of arrival required by Form CCC-106 by a written notice to the supplier of ocean transportation on the receipt of evidence satisfactory to the General Sales Manager that the vessel is lost or unable to proceed to destination after completion of loading as a result of one or more of the following causes: Damage caused by perils of the sea or other waters; collisions; wrecks; stranding without the fault of the carrier; jettison; fire from any cause; Act of God; public enemies or pirates; arrest or restraint of princes, rulers or peoples without the fault of the supplier of ocean transportation; wars; public disorders; captures; or detention by public authority in the interest of public safety. The supplier may substitute such waiver for the notice of arrival.


(2) The determination of a force majeure by the GSM shall not relieve the participant from its obligation under the Agricultural Commodities Agreement to pay CCC, when due, the dollar amount of ocean freight, plus interest (exclusive of ocean freight differential), financed by CCC.


(m) *Demurrage/despatch.* CCC will not finance demurrage and CCC will not share in despatch earnings. Owners and commodity suppliers will settle laytime accounts at load port(s) and owners and charterers will settle laytime accounts at discharge port(s). Under no circumstances shall CCC be responsible for resolving disputes involving calculation of laytime or the payment of demurrage or despatch.


(n) *Ocean freight included in the commodity contract price.* For cost and freight or c.i.f. contracts the ocean freight, or the ocean freight differential, as appropriate, will be financed only to the extent specifically provided in the applicable purchase authorization.


(o) *Separate freight contracts.* Contracts for ocean transportation, under a purchase authorization which limits delivery terms to f.o.b. or f.a.s., must be separate and apart from the contracts for the commodity.




