# § 180.411   Fluazifop-P-butyl; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide fluazifop-P-butyl, butyl (2*R*)-2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 1 to this paragraph (a). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 1 is to be determined by measuring only those fluazifop-P-butyl residues convertible to fluazifop, 2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid, expressed as fluazifop, in or on the commodity”.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide fluazifop-P-butyl, butyl (2*R*)-2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 2 to this paragraph (c). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 2 is to be determined by measuring only those fluazifop-P-butyl residues convertible to fluazifop, 2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid, expressed as fluazifop, in or on the commodity”.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide fluazifop-P-butyl, butyl (2*R*)-2-[4-[[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridinyl]oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in table 3 to this paragraph (d). Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in table 3 is to be determined by measuring only those fluazifop-P-butyl residues convertible to 5-trifluoromethyl-2-pyridinone (TFP), expressed as TFP, in or on the commodity.



---

[N] [88 FR 25506, Apr. 27, 2023]






