# ยง 922.167   Permits for access to the Tortugas Ecological Reserve.

(a) A person may enter the Tortugas North area of the Tortugas Ecological Reserve other than for passage without interruption through the reserve, for law enforcement purposes, or for purposes of monitoring pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of ยง 922.164 , if authorized by a valid access permit issued pursuant to ยง 922.167. 


(b)(1) Access permits must be requested at least 72 hours but no longer than one month before the date the permit is desired to be effective. Access permits do not require written applications or the payment of any fee. Permits may be requested via telephone or radio by contacting FKNMS at any of the following numbers:


(2) The following information must be provided, as applicable: 


(i) Vessel name. 


(ii) Name, address, and telephone number of owner and operator. 


(iii) Name, address, and telephone number of applicant. 


(iv) USCG documentation, state license, or registration number. 


(v) Home port. 


(vi) Length of vessel and propulsion type (*i.e.,* motor or sail). 


(vii) Number of divers. 


(viii) Requested effective date and duration of permit (2 weeks, maximum). 


(c) The Sanctuary Superintendent will issue a permit to the owner or to the owner's representative for the vessel when all applicable information has been provided. The Sanctuary Superintendent will provide a permit number to the applicant and confirm the effective date and duration period of the permit. Written confirmation of permit issuance will be provided upon request.



---

[N] [66 FR 4370, Jan. 17, 2001]




