# § 717.5   Persons subject to this part.

(a) *Manufacturers.* (1) All manufacturers of chemical substances are subject to this part except as provided in § 717.7(a). If manufacture of a chemcial substance occurs at any site owned or controlled by a firm then that firm is subject to this part.


(2) A manufacturer must collect:


(i) Any allegation identifying a chemical substance it manufactures and any allegation identifying the operations in the manufacture of any chemical substance it manufactures.


(ii) Any allegation identifying any of its own processing or distribution in commerce activities with respect to any chemical substance it manufactures.


(iii) Any allegation identifying emissions, effluents, or other discharges from activities described in this paragraph.


(iv) Any allegation identifying a substance produced coincidentally during processing, use, storage or disposal of a chemical substance it manufactures.


(3) For the purpose of this part, owned or controlled means ownership of 50 percent or more of a firm's voting stock or other equity rights, or the power to control the management and policies of that firm.


(b) *Processors.* (1) A person who processes chemical substances, who is not also a manufacturer of those chemical substances, is subject to this part if (i) the person processes chemical substances to produce mixtures, or (ii) the person repackages chemical substances or mixtures.


(2) As a processor subject to this part such person must collect:


(i) Any allegation identifying any mixture it produces and distributes in commerce and any allegation identifying any chemical substance or mixture it repackages and distributes in commerce.


(ii) Any allegation identifying any of its own further processing or distribution in commerce activities of the products described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) Any allegation identifying emissions, effluents, or other discharges from activities described in this paragraph.


(iv) Any allegation identifying a substance produced coincidentally during the processing, use, storage or disposal of the products described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(c) *SIC code.* SIC codes applicable to this part are published in Standard Industrial Classification Manual—1972 and the 1977 Supplement. This manual and supplement may be obtained from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402—stock number 4101-0006 and stock number 003-005-0170-0 respectively. Where there is a conflict between the SIC code use of a term and the definition of that term in this part, the definition in this part applies.



---

[N] [48 FR 38187, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 50 FR 46769, Nov. 13, 1985]




