# ยง 213.1   Designation, administration, and development of National Grasslands.

(a) The land utilization projects administered by Department of Agriculture designated in paragraph (e) of this section hereafter shall be named and referred to as *National Grasslands.*

(b) The National Grasslands shall be a part of the National Forest system and permanently held by the Department of Agriculture for administration under the provisions and purposes of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act. 


(c) The National Grasslands shall be administered under sound and progressive principles of land conservation and multiple use, and to promote development of grassland agriculture and sustained-yield management of the forage, fish and wildlife, timber, water and recreational resources in the areas of which the National Grasslands are a part. 


(d) In the administration of the National Grasslands the resources shall be managed so as to maintain and improve soil and vegetative cover, and to demonstrate sound and practical principles of land use for the areas in which they are located. The Chief of the Forest Service shall, to the extent such action is feasible provide that policies for management of the Federally-owned lands exert a favorable influence for securing sound land conservation practices on associated private lands. 


(e) National Grasslands in the following States and counties are hereby grouped and designated as indicated:



---

[N] [25 FR 5845, June 24, 1960, as amended at 27 FR 12217, Dec. 11, 1962; 28 FR 6268, June 19, 1963; 41 FR 38164, Sept. 9, 1976; 56 FR 8280, Feb. 28, 1991] 




