# ยง 382.81   For which passengers must carriers make seating accommodations?

As a carrier, you must provide the following seating accommodations to the following passengers on request, if the passenger self-identifies to you as having a disability specified in this section and the type of seating accommodation in question exists on the particular aircraft. Once the passenger self-identifies to you, you must ensure that the information is recorded and properly transmitted to personnel responsible for providing the accommodation.


(a) For a passenger who uses an aisle chair to access the aircraft and who cannot readily transfer over a fixed aisle armrest, you must provide a seat in a row with a movable aisle armrest. You must ensure that your personnel are trained in the location and proper use of movable aisle armrests, including appropriate transfer techniques. You must ensure that aisle seats with movable armrests are clearly identifiable.


(b) You must provide an adjoining seat for a person assisting a passenger with a disability in the following circumstances:


(1) When a passenger with a disability is traveling with a personal care attendant who will be performing a function for the individual during the flight that airline personnel are not required to perform (*e.g.,* assistance with eating);


(2) When a passenger with a vision impairment is traveling with a reader/assistant who will be performing functions for the individual during the flight;


(3) When a passenger with a hearing impairment is traveling with an interpreter who will be performing functions for the individual during the flight; or


(4) When you require a passenger to travel with a safety assistant (see ยง 382.29).


(c) For a passenger with a disability traveling with a service animal, you must provide, as the passenger requests, either a bulkhead seat or a seat other than a bulkhead seat.


(d) For a passenger with a fused or immobilized leg, you must provide a bulkhead seat or other seat that provides greater legroom than other seats, on the side of an aisle that better accommodates the individual's disability.




