# § 16.15   Service of documents on the parties and the agency.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, documents shall be served as follows:


(a) *Whom must be served.* Copies of all documents filed with the FAA Part 16 Docket Clerk shall be served by the persons filing them on all parties to the proceeding. A certificate of service shall accompany all documents when they are tendered for filing and shall certify concurrent service on the FAA and all parties. Certificates of service shall be in substantially the following form:


(b) Method of service. Except as otherwise agreed by the parties and, if applicable, the hearing officer, the method of service is the same as set forth in § 16.13(b) for filing documents.


(c) *Where service shall be made.* Service shall be made to the persons identified in accordance with § 16.13(f). If no such person has been designated, service shall be made on the party.


(d) *Presumption of service.* There shall be a presumption of lawful service—


(1) When acknowledgment of receipt is by a person who customarily or in the ordinary course of business receives mail at the address of the party or of the person designated under § 16.13(f);


(2) When a properly addressed envelope, sent to the most current address submitted under § 16.13(f), has been returned as undeliverable, unclaimed, or refused; or


(3) When the party serving the document electronically has a confirmation statement demonstrating that the email was properly sent to a party correctly addressed.


(e) *Date of service.* The date of service shall be determined in the same manner as the filing date under § 16.13(b).



---

[N] [Doc. No. 27783, 61 FR 54004, Oct. 16, 1996, as amended at Amdt. 16-1, 78 FR 56143, Sept. 12, 2013]




