# § 25.903   Engines.

(a) *Engine type certificate.* (1) Each engine must have a type certificate and must meet the applicable requirements of part 34 of this chapter. 


(2) Each turbine engine must comply with one of the following:


(i) Sections 33.76, 33.77 and 33.78 of this chapter in effect on December 13, 2000, or as subsequently amended; or


(ii) Sections 33.77 and 33.78 of this chapter in effect on April 30, 1998, or as subsequently amended before December 13, 2000; or


(iii) Comply with § 33.77 of this chapter in effect on October 31, 1974, or as subsequently amended prior to April 30, 1998, unless that engine's foreign object ingestion service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or


(iv) Be shown to have a foreign object ingestion service history in similar installation locations which has not resulted in any unsafe condition.


(3) Each turbine engine must comply with one of the following paragraphs:


(i) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on January 5, 2015, or as subsequently amended; or


(ii) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on March 26, 1984, or as subsequently amended before January 5, 2015, unless that engine's ice accumulation service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or


(iii) Section 33.68 of this chapter in effect on October 31, 1974, or as subsequently amended prior to February 23, 1984, unless that engine's ice accumulation service history has resulted in an unsafe condition; or


(iv) Be shown to have an ice accumulation service history in similar installation locations which has not resulted in any unsafe conditions.


(b) *Engine isolation.* The powerplants must be arranged and isolated from each other to allow operation, in at least one configuration, so that the failure or malfunction of any engine, or of any system that can affect the engine, will not—


(1) Prevent the continued safe operation of the remaining engines; or 


(2) Require immediate action by any crewmember for continued safe operation. 


(c) *Control of engine rotation.* There must be means for stopping the rotation of any engine individually in flight, except that, for turbine engine installations, the means for stopping the rotation of any engine need be provided only where continued rotation could jeopardize the safety of the airplane. Each component of the stopping system on the engine side of the firewall that might be exposed to fire must be at least fire-resistant. If hydraulic propeller feathering systems are used for this purpose, the feathering lines must be at least fire resistant under the operating conditions that may be expected to exist during feathering. 


(d) *Turbine engine installations.* For turbine engine installations—


(1) Design precautions must be taken to minimize the hazards to the airplane in the event of an engine rotor failure or of a fire originating within the engine which burns through the engine case. 


(2) The powerplant systems associated with engine control devices, systems, and instrumentation, must be designed to give reasonable assurance that those engine operating limitations that adversely affect turbine rotor structural integrity will not be exceeded in service. 


(e) *Restart capability.* (1) Means to restart any engine in flight must be provided. 


(2) An altitude and airspeed envelope must be established for in-flight engine restarting, and each engine must have a restart capability within that envelope. 


(3) For turbine engine powered airplanes, if the minimum windmilling speed of the engines, following the inflight shutdown of all engines, is insufficient to provide the necessary electrical power for engine ignition, a power source independent of the engine-driven electrical power generating system must be provided to permit in-flight engine ignition for restarting.


(f) *Auxiliary Power Unit.* Each auxiliary power unit must be approved or meet the requirements of the category for its intended use. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5676, Apr. 8, 1970; Amdt. 25-40, 42 FR 15042, Mar. 17, 1977; Amdt. 25-57, 49 FR 6848, Feb. 23, 1984; Amdt. 25-72, 55 FR 29784, July 20, 1990; Amdt. 25-73, 55 FR 32861, Aug. 10, 1990; Amdt. 25-94, 63 FR 8848, Feb. 23, 1998; Amdt. 25-95, 63 FR 14798, Mar. 26, 1998; Amdt. 25-100, 65 FR 55854, Sept. 14, 2000; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014; Amdt. No.  25-148, 87 FR 75710, Dec. 9, 2022; 88 FR 2813, Jan. 18, 2023] 




