# § 97.74   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall comply with all recordkeeping and reporting requirements in this section, with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements under § 75.73 of this chapter, and with the requirements of § 97.10(e)(1). 


(2) If the NO_X_ authorized account representative for a NO_X_ Budget unit subject to an Acid Rain emission limitation who signed and certified any submission that is made under subpart F or G of part 75 of this chapter and that includes data and information required under this subpart or subpart H of part 75 of this chapter is not the same person as the designated representative or the alternative designated representative for the unit under part 72 of this chapter, then the submission must also be signed by the designated representative or the alternative designated representative. 


(b) *Monitoring plans.* (1) The owner or operator of a unit subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation shall comply with requirements of § 75.62 of this chapter, except that the monitoring plan shall also include all of the information required by subpart H of part 75 of this chapter. 


(2) The owner or operator of a unit that is not subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation shall comply with requirements of § 75.62 of this chapter, except that the monitoring plan is only required to include the information required by subpart H of part 75 of this chapter. 


(c) *Certification applications.* The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit an application to the Administrator, the appropriate EPA Regional Office, and the permitting authority within 45 days after completing all initial certification or recertification tests required under § 97.71 including the information required under subpart H of part 75 of this chapter. 


(d) *Quarterly reports.* The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit quarterly reports, as follows: 


(1) If a unit is subject to an Acid Rain emission limitation or if the owner or operator of the NO_X_ budget unit chooses to meet the annual reporting requirements of this subpart H, the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit a quarterly report for each calendar quarter beginning with:


(i) For a unit for which the owner or operator intends to apply or applies for the early reduction credits under § 97.43, the calendar quarter that covers May 1, 2000 through June 30, 2000. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2000; or


(ii) For a unit that commences operation before January 1, 2003 and that is not subject to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the calendar quarter covering May 1, 2003 through June 30, 2003. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2003; or


(iii) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003:


(A) The calendar quarter in which the unit commences operation, if unit operation commences during a control period. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the date and hour when the unit commences operation; or


(B) The calendar quarter which includes May 1 through June 30 of the first control period following the date on which the unit commences operation, if the unit does not commence operation during a control period. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1 of that control period; or


(iv) A calendar quarter before the quarter specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), or (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, if the owner or operator elects to begin reporting early under § 97.70(c)(3).


(2) If a NO_X_ budget unit is not subject to an Acid Rain emission limitation, then the NO_X_ authorized account representative shall either: 


(i) Meet all of the requirements of part 75 related to monitoring and reporting NO_X_ mass emissions during the entire year and meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or 


(ii) Submit quarterly reports, documenting NO_X_ mass emissions from the unit, only for the period from May 1 through September 30 of each year and including the data described in § 75.74(c)(6) of this chapter. The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit such quarterly reports, beginning with:


(A) For a unit for which the owner or operator intends to apply or applies for the early reduction credits under § 97.43, the calendar quarter that covers May 1, 2000 through June 30, 2000. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2000; or


(B) For a unit that commences operation before January 1, 2003 and that is not subject to paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, the calendar quarter covering May 1, 2003 through June 30, 2003. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2003; or


(C) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and during a control period, the calendar quarter in which the unit commences operation. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the date and hour when the unit commences operation; or


(D) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and not during a control period, the calendar quarter which includes May 1 through June 30 of the first control period following the date on which the unit commences operation. The NO_X_ mass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1 of that control period.


(3) The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit each quarterly report to the Administrator within 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter covered by the report. Quarterly reports shall be submitted in the manner specified in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter and § 75.64 of this chapter. 


(i) For units subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation, quarterly reports shall include all of the data and information required in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter for each NO_X_ Budget unit (or group of units using a common stack) and the data and information required in subpart G of part 75 of this chapter. 


(ii) For units not subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation, quarterly reports are only required to include all of the data and information required in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter for each NO_X_ Budget unit (or group of units using a common stack). 


(4) *Compliance certification.* The NO_X_ authorized account representative shall submit to the Administrator a compliance certification in support of each quarterly report based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all of the unit's emissions are correctly and fully monitored. The certification shall state that: 


(i) The monitoring data submitted were recorded in accordance with the applicable requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, including the quality assurance procedures and specifications; 


(ii) For a unit with add-on NO_X_ emission controls and for all hours where data are substituted in accordance with § 75.34(a)(1) of this chapter, the add-on emission controls were operating within the range of parameters listed in the quality assurance/quality control program under appendix B of part 75 of this chapter and the substitute values do not systematically underestimate NO_X_ emissions; and 


(iii) For a unit that is reporting on a control period basis under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the NO_X_ emission rate and NO_X_ concentration values substituted for missing data under subpart D of part 75 of this chapter are calculated using only values from a control period and do not systematically underestimate NO_X_ emissions. 



---

[N] [65 FR 2727, Jan. 18, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 21530, Apr. 30, 2002; 69 FR 21648, Apr. 21, 2004]




