# § 1.456-6   Time and manner of making election.

(a) *Election without consent.* A taxpayer may make an election under section 456 without the consent of the Commissioner for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1960, in which it receives prepaid dues income in the trade or business for which such election is made. The election must be made not later than the time prescribed by law for filing the income tax return for such year (including extensions thereof). The election must be made by means of a statement attached to such return. In addition, there should be attached a copy of a typical membership contract used by the organization and a copy of its charter, bylaws, or other written agreement or contract of organization or association. The statement shall indicate that the taxpayer is electing to apply the provisions of section 456 to the trade or business, and shall contain the following information: 


(1) The taxpayer's name and a description of the trade or business to which the election is to apply. 


(2) The method of accounting used for prepaid dues income in the trade or business during the first taxable year for which the election is to be effective and during each of 3 preceding taxable years, and if there was a change in the method of accounting for prepaid dues income during such 3-year period, a detailed explanation of such change including the adjustments necessary to prevent duplications or omissions of income. 


(3) Whether any type of deferral method for prepaid dues income has been used during any of the 3 taxable years preceding the first taxable year for which the election is effective. Where any type of such deferral method has been used during this period, an explanation of the method and a schedule showing the amounts received in each such year and the amounts deferred to each succeeding year. 


(4) A schedule with appropriate explanations showing: 


(i) The total amount of prepaid dues income received in the trade or business in the first taxable year for which the election is effective and the amount of such income to be included in each taxable year in accordance with the election, 


(ii) The total amount, if any, of prepayments of dues received in the first taxable year for which the election is effective which are directly attributable to a liability of the taxpayer to render services or make available membership privileges over a period of time in excess of 36 months, and 


(iii) The total amount, if any, of prepaid dues income received in the trade or business in— 


(*a*) The taxable year preceding the first taxable year for which the election is effective if all memberships sold by the taxpayer are for periods of 1 year or less, 


(*b*) Each of the 2 taxable years preceding the first taxable year for which the election is effective if any memberships are sold for periods in excess of 1 year but none are sold for periods in excess of 2 years, or 


(*c*) Each of the 3 taxable years preceding the first taxable year for which the election is effective if any memberships are sold for periods in excess of 2 years. 


(b) *Election with consent.* A taxpayer may elect with the consent of the Commissioner, to apply the provisions of section 456 to any trade or business in which it receives prepaid dues income. The request for such consent shall be in writing, signed by the taxpayer or its authorized representative, and shall be addressed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Washington, D.C. 20224. The request must be filed on or before the later of the following dates:


(1) 90 days after the beginning of the first taxable year to which the election is to apply, or


(2) February 28, 1968 and should contain the information described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *“Within 12 months” election.* (1) The “within 12 months” election shall be made by including in the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section or the request described in paragraph (b) of this section, whichever is applicable, a declaration that the taxpayer elects to include such income in gross income in the taxable year of receipt, and the amount of such income for each taxable year to which the election is to apply which has ended prior to the time such statement or request is filed. If the taxpayer is engaged in more than one trade or business for which the election under section 456 is made, it must include, in such statement or request, a declaration for each trade or business for which it wishes to make the “within 12 months” election. 


(2) If the taxpayer does not make the “within 12 months” election for a trade or business at the time it makes the election under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, but later wishes to make such election, it must apply for permission from the Commissioner. Such application shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section 446(e).



---

[N] [T.D. 6937, 32 FR 16395, Nov. 30, 1967; 32 FR 17479, Dec. 6, 1967] 




