# § 2520.103-11   Assets held for investment purposes.

(a) *General.* For purposes of preparing the schedule of assets held for investment purposes described in § 2520.103-10(b)(1) and (2), assets held for investment purposes include those assets described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) Assets held for investment purposes shall include:


(i) Any investment asset held by the plan on the last day of the plan year; and


(ii) Any investment asset which was purchased at any time during the plan year and was sold at any time before the last day of the plan year, except as provided by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.


(2) Assets held for investment purposes shall not include any investment which was not held by the plan on the last day of the plan year for which the annual report is filed if that investment falls within any of the following categories:


(i) Debt obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;


(ii) Interests issued by a company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940;


(iii) Bank certificates of deposit with a maturity of not more than one year;


(iv) commercial paper with a maturity of not more than nine months if it is ranked in the highest rating category by at least two nationally recognized statistical rating services and is issued by a company required to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;


(v) Participations in a bank common or collective trust;


(vi) Participations in an insurance company pooled separate account;


(vii) Securities purchased from a person registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and listed on a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or quoted on NASDAQ;


(3) Assets held for investment purposes shall not include any investment which was not held by the plan on the last day of the plan year for which the annual report is filed if that investment is reported on the annual report of that same plan in any of the following:


(i) The schedule of each transaction involving a person known to be a party in interest required by section 103(b)(3)(D) of the Act and § 2520.103-10(b)(3);


(ii) The schedule of loans or fixed income obligations in default required by section 103(b)(3)(E) of the Act and § 2520.103-10(b)(4);


(iii) The schedule of leases in default or classified as uncollectible required by section 103(b)(3)(F) of the Act and § 2520.103-10(b)(5); or


(iv) The schedule of reportable transactions required by section 103(b)(3)(H) of the Act and § 2520.103-10(b)(6).


(c) *Examples.* (1) On February 1, 1977, plan N purchases an interest in registered investment company F (fund F). Fund F is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. On November 1, 1977, plan N sells this interest in fund F and purchases 1,000 shares of stock S, which the plan holds for the rest of the plan year. Plan N must include in its schedule of assets held for investment purposes the 1,000 shares of stock S under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but need not include the interest in fund F because of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(2) On February 1, 1977, plan N purchases a parcel of real estate from Mr. M, who is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. On November 1, 1977, plan N sells the parcel of real estate for cash to Mr. X, who is not a party in interest with respect to plan N. Plan N uses the cash from this transaction to purchase a 1-year certificate of deposit in bank B, which it holds until maturity in 1978. Plan N must include in its schedule of assets held for investment purposes the 1-year certificate of deposit in bank B under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, and must also include the parcel of real estate under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(d) *Special rule for certain participant-directed transactions.* Cost information may be omitted from the schedule of assets held for investment purposes for assets described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section only with respect to participant or beneficiary directed transactions under an individual account plan. For purposes of this section only, a transaction will be considered directed by a participant or beneficiary if it has been authorized by such participant or beneficiary. 



---

[N] [43 FR 10140, Mar. 10, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 21083, Apr. 19, 2000]




