# § 80.1453   What are the product transfer document (PTD) requirements for the RFS program?

(a) On each occasion when any party transfers ownership of neat or blended renewable fuels or RNG, except when such fuel is dispensed into motor vehicles or nonroad vehicles, engines, or equipment, or separated RINs subject to this subpart, the transferor must provide to the transferee documents that include all the following information, as applicable:


(1) The name and address of the transferor and transferee.


(2) The transferor's and transferee's EPA company registration numbers.


(3) The volume of renewable fuel that is being transferred, if any.


(4) The date of the transfer.


(5) [Reserved]


(6) The quantity of RINs being traded.


(7) The D code of the RINs.


(8) The RIN status (Assigned or Separated).


(9) The RIN generation year.


(10) The associated reason for the sell or buy transaction (e.g., standard trade or remedial action).


(11) Additional RIN-related information, as follows:


(i) If assigned RINs are being transferred on the same PTD used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel, then the assigned RIN information shall be identified on the PTD.


(A) The identifying information for a RIN that is transferred in EMTS generically is the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section.


(B) The identifying information for a RIN that is transferred in EMTS uniquely is the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section, the RIN generator company ID, the RIN generator facility ID, and the batch number.


(C) The identifying information for a RIN that is generated prior to July 1, 2010, is the 38-digit code pursuant to § 80.1425, in its entirety.


(ii) If assigned RINs are being transferred on a separate PTD from that which is used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel, then the PTD which is used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel shall include all the following:


(A) The number of gallon-RINs being transferred.


(B) A unique reference to the PTD which is transferring the assigned RINs.


(C) The information specified in paragraphs (a)(11)(i)(A) through (a)(11)(i)(C) of this section, as appropriate.


(iii) If no assigned RINs are being transferred with the renewable fuel, the PTD which is used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel shall state “No assigned RINs transferred.”.


(iv) If RINs have been separated from the renewable fuel or fuel blend pursuant to § 80.1429(b)(4), then all PTDs which are at any time used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel or fuel blend shall state “This volume of fuel must be used in the designated form, without further blending.”.


(12) For the transfer of renewable fuel or RNG for which RINs were generated, an accurate and clear statement on the product transfer document of the fuel type from the approved pathway, and designation of the fuel use(s) intended by the transferor, as follows:


(i) Ethanol. “This volume of neat or blended ethanol is designated and intended for use as transportation fuel or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(ii) Biodiesel. “This volume of neat or blended biodiesel is designated and intended for use as transportation fuel, heating oil or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(iii) Renewable heating oil. “This volume of heating oil is designated and intended for use as heating oil in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(iv) Renewable diesel. “This volume of neat or blended renewable diesel is designated and intended for use as transportation fuel, heating oil or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(v) Naphtha. “This volume of neat or blended naphtha is designated and intended for use as transportation fuel or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. This naphtha may only be used as a gasoline blendstock, E85 blendstock, or jet fuel. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(vi) Butanol. “This volume of neat or blended butanol is designated and intended for use as transportation fuel or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. This butanol may only be used as a gasoline blendstock or jet fuel. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(vii) Renewable fuels other than ethanol, biodiesel, heating oil, renewable diesel, naptha or butanol. “This volume of neat or blended renewable fuel is designated and intended to be used as transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430.”.


(viii) RNG. “This volume of RNG is designated and intended for transportation use in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii or as a feedstock to produce a renewable fuel and may not be used for any other purpose. Any person exporting this fuel is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 80.1430. Assigned RINs to this volume of RNG must not be separated unless the RNG is used as transportation fuel in the 48 U.S. contiguous states and Hawaii.”


(b) Except for transfers to truck carriers, retailers, or wholesale purchaser-consumers, product codes may be used to convey the information required under paragraphs (a)(1) through (11) and (e) of this section if such codes are clearly understood by each transferee.


(c) For renewable fuel, other than ethanol, that is not registered as motor vehicle fuel under 40 CFR Part 79, the PTD which is used to transfer ownership of the renewable fuel shall state “This volume of renewable fuel may not be used as a motor vehicle fuel.”


(d) For fuel oil meeting paragraph (2) of the definition of “heating oil” in § 80.2, the PTD of the fuel oil shall state: “This volume of renewable fuel oil is designated and intended to be used to heat or cool interior spaces of homes or buildings to control ambient climate for human comfort. Do NOT use for process heat or cooling or any other purpose, as these uses are prohibited pursuant to 40 CFR 80.1460(g).”.


(e) Beginning January 1, 2021, on each occasion when any party transfers custody or ownership of certified NTDF, except when such fuel is dispensed into motor vehicles or nonroad vehicles, engines, or equipment, the transferor must provide to the transferee documents that include all the following information, as applicable:


(1) The transferor of certified NTDF must list all applicable required information as specified at 40 CFR 1090.1115 and, if the distillate fuel contains renewable fuel, all applicable required information in paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this section.


(2) The transferor must include the following statement on the PTD: “15 ppm sulfur (maximum) certified NTDF—This fuel is designated for non-transportation use.”


(f)(1) On each occasion when any party transfers title or custody of a biointermediate, the transferor must provide to the transferee documents that include all of the following information:


(i) The name and address of the transferor and transferee.


(ii) The transferor's and transferee's EPA company registration and applicable facility registration numbers.


(iii) The volume of biointermediate that is being transferred.


(iv) The date of the transfer.


(v) The location of the biointermediate at the time of the transfer.


(vi) The following statement designating the volume of biointermediate as feedstock for the production of a renewable fuel: “This volume is designated and intended for use as biointermediate in the production of renewable fuel as defined in § 80.2. Parties may not generate RINs on this feedstock material and it must remain segregated from all products until received by a designated renewable fuel production facility.”


(vii) For biogas designated for use as a biointermediate, any applicable PTD requirements under § 80.150.


(2) In addition to the information specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, on each occasion when any party transfers title of a biointermediate or when any party transfers a biointermediate to a renewable fuel production facility, the transferor must provide to the transferee documents that include all of the following information:


(i) The renewable fuel type the biointermediate was designated to be used as a feedstock material for by the biointermediate producer under § 80.1476(i).


(ii) The composition of the biointermediate being transferred, including:


(A) The type and quantity of each feedstock that was used to make the biointermediate.


(B) The percentage of each feedstock that is renewable biomass, rounded to two decimal places.


(C) For a biointermediate that contains both renewable and non-renewable feedstocks:


(*1*) The percentage of each feedstock that is not renewable biomass, rounded to two decimal places.


(*2*) The feedstock energy from the renewable biomass used to make the biointermediate, in Btu.


(*3*) The feedstock energy from the non-renewable biomass used to make the biointermediate, in Btu.


(*4*) The total percentage of the biointermediate that may generate RINs, rounded to two decimal places.


(*5*) The total percentage of the biointermediate that may not generate RINs, rounded to two decimal places.


(D) For a biointermediate that contains cellulosic material:


(*1*) The percentage of each feedstock that is cellulosic, rounded to two decimal places.


(*2*) The percentage of each feedstock that is non-cellulosic, rounded to two decimal places, if applicable.


(*3*) If the biointermediate is intended for use in the production of a cellulosic biofuel, the total percentage of the biointermediate that may generate cellulosic RINs, rounded to two decimal places.


(*4*) For separated municipal solid waste, the cellulosic portion of the biointermediate is equivalent to the biogenic portion.


(*5*) For separated food waste, the non-cellulosic percentage is assumed to be zero percent unless it is demonstrated to be partially cellulosic.


(*6*) For separated yard waste, 100% of separated yard waste is deemed to be cellulosic.


(*7*) The following statement: “I certify that the cellulosic content of this feedstock was derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin that was derived from renewable biomass.”


(iii) Copies of records specified in § 80.1454(i)(3), (5), and (6) for the volume being transferred, as applicable.



---

[N] [75 FR 14863, Mar. 26, 2010, as amended at 75 FR 26045, May 10, 2010; 78 FR 62471, Oct. 22, 2013; 79 FR 42118, July 18, 2014; 81 FR 23645, Apr. 22, 2016; 85 FR 7079, Feb. 6, 2020; 85 FR 78467, Dec. 4, 2020; 87 FR 39669, July 1, 2022; 88 FR 44589, July 12, 2023]




