# § 99.32   How are the methane emissions caused by an unreasonable delay in environmental permitting of gathering or transmission infrastructure quantified?

(a) Determine the time period, in days, associated with the emissions that occurred as a result of the eligible delay within the reporting year as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The start date of the emissions caused by the delay in the reporting year is the latter of January 1 of the reporting year, or the date on which emissions would have been avoided through commencement of the operation of the gathering or transmission infrastructure if the environmental permit application to construct and/or operate the gathering or transmission infrastructure had been approved within 36 months as specified in § 99.31(b)(6).


(2) The end time of the emissions caused by the delay in the reporting year is the earlier of December 31 of the reporting year or the date the emissions caused by the unreasonable delay ended because the infrastructure commenced operation.


(b) Determine by engineering estimates based upon best available information the increased volume of gas, in thousand standard cubic feet, resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation during the time period determined in paragraph (a) of this section associated with each of the activities listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. If the WEC applicable facility is in the offshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, determine these values for the WEC applicable facility in every reporting year. If the WEC applicable facility is in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, for reporting year 2024 determine these values for the WEC applicable facility, and for reporting year 2025 and later determine these values for each well-pad site impacted by the unreasonable delay.


(1) Onsite fuel source.


(2) Another useful purpose that an otherwise purchased fuel or raw material would have served, excluding use as an onsite fuel source.


(3) Reinjection into a well.


(4) Flaring. Determine this value in accordance with this paragraph (4)(i), (ii), or (iii), as applicable. For the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment flaring volumes must be determined for each flare that received an increased volume of gas resulting from the environmental permit delay and then totaled for the WEC applicable facility or well-pad site, as applicable.


(i) If the WEC applicable facility is in the offshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment determine by engineering estimate based upon best available information.


(ii) If the WEC applicable facility is in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment for reporting year 2024, determine by engineering estimate based upon best available information the portion of the flow reported pursuant to § 98.236(n)(4) of this chapter attributable to the environmental permit delay for each flare that received an increased volume of gas. If a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) was used to measure emissions from the flare as reported pursuant to § 98.236(n)(12) of this chapter, do not determine a volume of gas for that flare.


(iii) If the WEC applicable facility is in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment for reporting year 2025 and later, for each flare that received an increased volume of gas attributable to the environmental permit delay, if flow for each stream to the flare is measured or determined in accordance with § 98.233(n)(3)(ii) of this chapter and that stream or combination of streams contain only flow resulting from the environmental permit delay, use the flow for those streams as reported to § 98.236(n)(11) of this chapter. If flow is measured at the inlet to the flare in accordance with § 98.233(n)(3)(i) of this chapter or the stream flow measured or determined in accordance with § 98.233(n)(3)(ii) of this chapter includes flow unrelated to the environmental permit delay, use an engineering estimate based upon best available information of the portion of flow resulting from the environmental permit delay.


(c) For each well-pad site or offshore platform at a WEC applicable facility impacted by an unreasonable delay in environmental permitting of gathering or transmission infrastructure, you must calculate the emissions that occurred at the well-pad site or offshore platform that were caused by the unreasonable delay according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section, as applicable.


(1) For a WEC applicable facility in the offshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, as that industry segment term is defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, equation C-1 of this section must be used to calculate the WEC applicable facility unreasonable delay emissions.


(2) For reporting year 2024, for a WEC applicable facility in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, as that industry segment term is defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, equation C-2 of this section must be used to calculate the WEC applicable facility unreasonable delay emissions.


(3) For reporting year 2025 and later, for a WEC applicable facility in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, as that industry segment term is defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, equation C-3 of this section must be used to calculate the WEC applicable facility unreasonable delay emissions.


(4) For reporting year 2025, for a WEC applicable facility in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, as that industry segment term is defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, equation C-4 of this section must be used to calculate the unreasonable delay emissions for each affected well-pad site.


(5) If a portion, or all, of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation was used as an onsite fuel source, equation C-5 of this section must be used to calculate the quantity of methane emissions from use as an onsite fuel source of increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation.




(6) If a portion, or all, of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation was used for another useful purpose that an otherwise purchased fuel or raw material would have served, excluding use as an onsite fuel source, equation C-6 of this section must be used to calculate the quantity of methane emissions from the use of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation.


(7) If a portion, or all, of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation was reinjected into a well, equation C-7 of this section must be used to calculate the quantity of methane emissions from reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation.


(8) If a portion, or all, of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation was flared, equation C-8A of this section must be used to calculate the quantity of methane emissions from flaring of increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation for each associated flare. For reporting year 2024, if a CEMS was used to measure emissions from an associated flare as reported to § 98.236(n)(12) of this part, do not determine methane emissions for that flare. Equation C-8B of this section must be used to calculate the quantity of methane emissions from flaring of increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation for the WEC applicable facility or well-pad site, as applicable.


(9) You must quantify equipment leak methane emissions from components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation at the WEC applicable facility in accordance with the methods in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must use the same calculation method for equipment leaks reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) or (r) of this chapter in the part 98 report associated with the components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation at the WEC applicable facility.


(i) If equipment leak surveys and measurement were used to quantify methane emissions from components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation and reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, you must calculate the methane emissions (*i.e.,* E_Measured Leak, CH4_) for each leak in accordance with equation C-9A of this section. The sum of the quantified methane emissions from components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation calculated in accordance with equation C-9A of this section shall be considered “E_Leaks-Use, CH4_” and “E_Leaks-Reinject, CH4_” in Equations C-6 and C-7 of this section, as applicable.


(ii) If equipment leak surveys were used to quantify methane emissions from components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation and reported pursuant to § 98.236(q) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, equation C-9B of this section must be used to calculate E_Leaks,CH4_.




(iii) If equipment leaks by population count were used to quantify methane emission from components involved in the useful purpose or reinjection of the increased volume of natural gas resulting from methane emissions mitigation implementation and reported pursuant to § 98.236(r) of this chapter in the part 98 report for a WEC applicable facility, equation C-9C of this section must be used to calculate E_Leaks,CH4_.


