# § 45.3   Swap data reporting: Creation data.

(a) *Swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market.* For each swap executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the execution date.


(b) *Off-facility swaps.* For each off-facility swap, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository as provided by paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) If the reporting counterparty is a swap dealer, major swap participant, or derivatives clearing organization, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the next business day following the execution date.


(2) If the reporting counterparty is a non-SD/MSP/DCO counterparty, the reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data electronically to a swap data repository in the manner provided in § 45.13(a) not later than the end of the second business day following the execution date.


(c) *Allocations.* For swaps involving allocation, required swap creation data shall be reported electronically to a single swap data repository as follows.


(1) *Initial swap between reporting counterparty and agent.* The initial swap transaction between the reporting counterparty and the agent shall be reported as required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable. A unique transaction identifier for the initial swap transaction shall be created as provided in § 45.5.


(2) *Post-allocation swaps*—(i) *Duties of the agent.* In accordance with this section, the agent shall inform the reporting counterparty of the identities of the reporting counterparty's actual counterparties resulting from allocation, as soon as technologically practicable after execution, but no later than eight business hours after execution.


(ii) *Duties of the reporting counterparty.* The reporting counterparty shall report required swap creation data, as required by paragraph (b) of this section, for each swap resulting from allocation to the same swap data repository to which the initial swap transaction is reported. The reporting counterparty shall create a unique transaction identifier for each such swap as required in § 45.5.


(d) *Multi-asset swaps.* For each multi-asset swap, required swap creation data and required swap continuation data shall be reported to a single swap data repository that accepts swaps in the asset class treated as the primary asset class involved in the swap by the swap execution facility, designated contract market, or reporting counterparty reporting required swap creation data pursuant to this section.


(e) *Mixed swaps.* (1) For each mixed swap, required swap creation data and required swap continuation data shall be reported to a swap data repository and to a security-based swap data repository registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This requirement may be satisfied by reporting the mixed swap to a swap data repository or security-based swap data repository registered with both Commissions.


(2) The registered entity or reporting counterparty reporting required swap creation data pursuant to this section shall ensure that the same unique transaction identifier is recorded for the swap in both the swap data repository and the security-based swap data repository.


(f) *Choice of swap data repository.* The entity with the obligation to choose the swap data repository to which all required swap creation data for the swap is reported shall be the entity that is required to make the first report of all data pursuant to this section, as follows:


(1) For swaps executed on or pursuant to the rules of a swap execution facility or designated contract market, the swap execution facility or designated contract market shall choose the swap data repository;


(2) For all other swaps, the reporting counterparty, as determined in § 45.8, shall choose the swap data repository.



---

[N] [85 FR 75561, Nov. 25, 2020]




