# § 894.804   Am I a sponsor for a FEDVIP dental or vision plan?

(a) Generally, the sponsor is the individual who is eligible for medical or dental benefits under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55 based on his or her direct affiliation with the uniformed services, including military members of the National Guard and Reserves. Relationship to a sponsor conveys TEI status to a TEI family member. If two parents of a TEI child are entitled to be a sponsor, see restriction on dual enrollment at § 894.204.


(b) *Sponsor* for a FEDVIP dental plan means:


(1) Retiree. A member or former member of a uniformed service who is entitled to uniformed services retirement pay. To determine a *sponsor's enrollee* status for a FEDVIP dental plan, see § 894.309 and the definition of *TEI-D;*

(2) Retired Reserve member under the age of 60 (“Gray Area Retiree”). To determine *sponsor's enrollee* status for a FEDVIP dental plan, see § 894.309 and the definition of *TEI-D;*

(3) Medal of Honor recipient who is not otherwise entitled to dental benefits; or


(4) Deceased Member described in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section who died after retiring from active duty and a deceased member who was a Medal of Honor recipient described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(c) *Sponsor* for a FEDVIP vision plan includes:


(1) Retiree. A member or former member of a uniformed service who is entitled to uniformed services retirement pay.


(2) Retired Reserve member under the age of 60 (“Gray Area Retiree”);


(3) Medal of Honor recipient who is enrolled in TRICARE Select or TRICARE


Prime and who is not on active duty;


(4) Member of the uniformed services (active or Reserve Component) on active duty for more than 30 days. An active duty member of the uniformed services under 10 U.S.C. 1074(a) is not a *TEI-V* and is not an *enrollee* for a FEDVIP vision plan, see § 894.309 and definition of *TEI-V;*

(5) Ready Reserve member;


(6) Deceased member described at paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section; or


(7) Deceased Reserve Component member (deceased in the line of duty).



---

[N] [83 FR 58180, Nov. 19, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 1599, Feb. 5, 2019]




