# § 22.16   Motions.

(a) *General.* Motions shall be served as provided by § 22.5(b)(2). Upon the filing of a motion, other parties may file responses to the motion and the movant may file a reply to the response. Any additional responsive documents shall be permitted only by order of the Presiding Officer or Environmental Appeals Board, as appropriate. All motions, except those made orally on the record during a hearing, shall:


(1) Be in writing;


(2) State the grounds therefor, with particularity;


(3) Set forth the relief sought; and


(4) Be accompanied by any affidavit, certificate, other evidence or legal memorandum relied upon.


(b) *Response to motions.* A party's response to any written motion must be filed within 15 days after service of such motion. The movant's reply to any written response must be filed within 10 days after service of such response and shall be limited to issues raised in the response. The Presiding Officer or the Environmental Appeals Board may set a shorter or longer time for response or reply, or make other orders concerning the disposition of motions. The response or reply shall be accompanied by any affidavit, certificate, other evidence, or legal memorandum relied upon. Any party who fails to respond within the designated period waives any objection to the granting of the motion.


(c) *Decision.* The Regional Judicial Officer (or in a proceeding commenced at EPA Headquarters, an Administrative Law Judge) shall rule on all motions filed or made before an answer to the complaint is filed. Except as provided in §§ 22.29(c) and 22.51, an Administrative Law Judge shall rule on all motions filed or made after an answer is filed and before an initial decision becomes final or has been appealed. The Environmental Appeals Board shall rule as provided in § 22.29(c) and on all motions filed or made after an appeal of the initial decision is filed, except as provided pursuant to § 22.28.


(d) *Oral argument.* The Presiding Officer or the Environmental Appeals Board may permit oral argument on motions in its discretion.



---

[N] [64 FR 40176, July 23, 1999, as amended at 82 FR 2234, Jan. 9, 2017]




