# 44.303   Extent of review.

A CPSR requires an evaluation of the contractor's purchasing system. Unless segregation of subcontracts is impracticable, this evaluation shall not include subcontracts awarded by the contractor exclusively in support of Government contracts that are competitively awarded firm-fixed-price, competitively awarded fixed-price with economic price adjustment, or awarded for commercial products and commercial services pursuant to part 12. The considerations listed in 44.202-2 for consent evaluation of particular subcontracts also shall be used to evaluate the contractor's purchasing system, including the contractor's policies, procedures, and performance under that system. Special attention shall be given to—


(a) The results of market research accomplished;


(b) The degree of price competition obtained;


(c) Pricing policies and techniques, including methods of obtaining certified cost or pricing data, and data other than certified cost or pricing data;


(d) Methods of evaluating subcontractor responsibility, including the contractor's use of the System for Award Management Exclusions (see 9.404) and, if the contractor has subcontracts with parties on the Exclusions list, the documentation, systems, and procedures the contractor has established to protect the Government's interests (see 9.405-2);


(e) Treatment accorded affiliates and other concerns having close working arrangements with the contractor;


(f) Policies and procedures pertaining to small business concerns, including small disadvantaged, women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone, and service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns;


(g) Planning, award, and postaward management of major subcontract programs;


(h) Compliance with Cost Accounting Standards in awarding subcontracts;


(i) Appropriateness of types of contracts used (see 16.103); 


(j) Management control systems, including internal audit procedures, to administer progress payments to subcontractors; and


(k) Implementation of higher-level quality standards.



---

[N] [48 FR 42388, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 9039, Mar. 20, 1987; 54 FR 19827, May 8, 1989; 60 FR 33066, June 26, 1995; 60 FR 48264, Sept. 18, 1995; 62 FR 12719, Mar. 17, 1997; 63 FR 70288, Dec. 18, 1998; 69 FR 76349, Dec. 20, 2004; 70 FR 14955, Mar. 23, 2005; 75 FR 34278, June 16, 2010; 75 FR 53150, Aug. 30, 2010; 78 FR 37680, June 21, 2013; 79 FR 70347, Nov. 25, 2014; 86 FR 61030, Nov. 4, 2021]




