# § 721.1350   Benzene, (1-methylethyl)(2-phenylethyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzene, (1-methylethyl)(2-phenylethyl)-, (PMN P-88-894) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(2)(iv), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). However, the personal protective clothing required in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) must be tested or evaluated under the requirements of paragraph (a)(3). Furthermore, the imperviousness of gloves required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) may not be demonstrated according to paragraph (a)(3)(ii), but rather must be tested according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) with the following additional requirements: There must be no permeation of the PMN substance greater than 16 ppb after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739-85 “Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.” Gloves may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i) and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). In addition, a significant use of the substance is any manner or method of manufacturing, processing, or use other than as an insulating oil for capacitors or transformers. 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), (c)(1), (a)(2), (b)(2), (c)(2), (a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(3). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (j). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40210, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




