# § 635.23   Retention limits for bluefin tuna.

The retention limits in this section are subject to the quotas and closure provisions in §§ 635.27 and 635.28.


(a) *General category.* (1) No school, large school, or small medium size class BFT may be possessed, retained, landed, or sold on or from a vessel that has an Atlantic Tunas General category permit.


(2) The following default daily retention limits apply to vessels that have an Atlantic Tunas General category permit or HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a commercial sale endorsement fishing under the General category restrictions and retention limits when the General category is open and the day is not an RFD and the retention limit has not been adjusted per paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(i) January 1 through March 31—one large medium or giant BFT, per vessel per day;


(ii) June 1 through June 30—three large medium or giant BFT per vessel per day; and


(iii) July 1 through December 30—one large medium or giant BFT per vessel per day.


(3) To provide for maximum utilization of the quota for BFT, NMFS may adjust the daily retention limit of large medium or giant BFT over a range from zero (on RFDs) to a maximum of five per vessel per the inseason criteria provided under § 635.27(a)(7).


(4) Regardless of the length of trip, no person may land, possess, or retain more than the daily retention limit in effect for that day. When the applicable retention limit for large medium or giant BFT has been reached, no person aboard such vessels may continue to fish, and the vessel must immediately proceed to port.


(5) From July 1 through November 30 of each year, every Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday is an RFD unless waived per paragraph (a)(7) of this section. On an RFD, no person who has been issued an Atlantic Tunas General category permit or issued an HMS Charter/Headboat permit and fishing commercially may fish for, possess, retain, land, or sell a BFT of any size class; or catch and release or tag and release, as specified under § 635.26(a), a BFT of any size class.


(6) NMFS may remove or establish additional designated RFDs, as appropriate, following public comment via publication in the _Federal Register_.


(7) Designated RFDs may be waived in the following circumstances.


(i) If the General category fishery is closed under § 635.28(a), any remaining RFDs for the relevant time period(s) are waived so that persons aboard vessels issued an Atlantic Tunas General category permit may conduct tag-and-release fishing for BFT under § 635.26(a).


(ii) If, based on the criteria at § 635.27(a)(7), NMFS determines that RFDs are not necessary, NMFS may waive RFDs by increasing the daily retention limit per paragraph (a)(3) of this section for a specific time period(s) via publication in the _Federal Register_.




(b) *Angling category.* BFT may be retained and landed under the daily limits and quotas applicable to the Angling category by persons aboard vessels issued an HMS Angling permit as follows: 


(1) *Large medium and giant BFT.* (i) No large medium or giant BFT may be retained, possessed, landed, or sold in the Gulf of Mexico, except one per vessel per year may be landed if caught incidentally to fishing for other species.


(ii) One per vessel per year may be retained, possessed, and landed outside the Gulf of Mexico.


(iii) When a large medium or giant BFT has been caught and retained under this paragraph (b)(1), no person aboard the vessel may continue to fish, the vessel must immediately proceed to port, and no such BFT may be sold or transferred to any person for a commercial purpose.


(2) *School, large school, or small medium BFT.* (i) No school, large school, or small medium BFT may be retained, possessed, landed, or sold in the Gulf of Mexico.


(ii) One school, large school, or small medium BFT per vessel per day may be retained, possessed, or landed outside the Gulf of Mexico. Regardless of the length of a trip, no more than a single day's allowable catch of school, large school, or small medium BFT may be possessed or retained.


(3) *Changes to retention limits.* To provide for maximum utilization of the quota for BFT over the longest period of time, NMFS may increase or decrease the retention limit for any size class of BFT, or change a vessel trip limit to an angler trip limit and vice versa. Such increase or decrease in retention limit will be based on the criteria provided under § 635.27(a)(7). The retention limits may be adjusted separately for persons aboard a specific vessel type, such as private vessels, headboats, or charter boats. NMFS will adjust the daily retention limit specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section by filing an adjustment with the Office of the Federal Register for publication.


(c) *HMS Charter/Headboat.* Persons aboard a vessel issued an HMS Charter/Headboat permit may retain and land BFT under the daily limits and quotas applicable to the Angling category or the General category as follows:


(1) When fishing in the Gulf of Mexico, the restrictions and retention limits applicable to the Angling category specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply.


(2) When fishing other than in the Gulf of Mexico when the fishery for the General category is closed or on an RFD, the restrictions and retention limits applicable to the Angling category specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section apply.


(3) When fishing other than in the Gulf of Mexico when the General category fishery is open and no RFD is in effect, a person aboard a vessel that has been issued an HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a commercial sale endorsement may fish under either the General category restrictions and retention limits as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) and paragraphs (4) through (5) of this section or the Angling category restrictions and retention limits as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The size category of the first BFT retained will determine whether the General category or Angling category restrictions and retention limits apply to the vessel that day.




(4) When fishing other than in the Gulf of Mexico when the General category fishery is open and not on an RFD, a person aboard a vessel that has been issued an HMS Charter/Headboat permit without a commercial sale endorsement permit may only fish for, possess, retain, or land BFT under the Angling category restrictions and retention limits as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(d) *Harpoon category.* (1) Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category may retain, possess, or land no more than 10 large medium and giant BFT, combined, per vessel per day. The incidental catch of large medium BFT is limited as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. NMFS may increase or decrease the overall daily retention limit of large medium and giant BFT, combined, per vessel per day over a range of 5 to a maximum of 10 fish per vessel per day. Such increase or decrease will be based upon the criteria under § 635.27(a)(7). NMFS will adjust the daily retention limit by filing an adjustment with the Office of the Federal Register for publication.


(2) Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category may retain, possess, or land an incidental catch of no more than two large medium BFT per vessel per day, unless adjusted. NMFS may increase or decrease the incidental daily catch limit through an inseason adjustment over a range of two to a maximum of four, large medium BFT per vessel per day, based upon the criteria under § 635.27(a)(7).


(3) Regardless of the length of a trip, no more than a single day's retention limit of large medium or giant BFT may be possessed or retained aboard a vessel that has an Atlantic Tunas Harpoon category permit.


(e) *Longline category.* Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Longline category are subject to the BFT retention restrictions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.


(1) A vessel fishing with pelagic longline gear may retain, possess, land and sell large medium and giant bluefin tuna taken incidentally when fishing for other species if in compliance with all the IBQ requirements of § 635.15, including the requirement that a vessel may not declare into or depart on a fishing trip with pelagic longline onboard unless it has the required minimum bluefin tuna IBQ allocation required for the region where fishing activity will occur.


(2) A vessel with pelagic longline gear onboard must retain and land all dead large medium or giant BFT.


(3) A vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Longline LAP category may retain, possess, land, and sell one large medium or giant BFT incidentally caught with green-stick gear per trip, if the vessel is in compliance with all the IBQ requirements of § 635.15, including the VMS set report requirement (§ 635.69(e)(4)), and IBQ allocation and usage requirements (§ 635.15(b)).


(f) *Trap category.* Persons aboard a vessel permitted in the Atlantic Tunas Trap category may retain, possess, land, and sell each fishing year only one large medium or giant BFT that is taken incidentally while fishing for other species with a pound net or fish weir. No other Atlantic tunas caught in a pound net or fish weir may be retained.



---

[N] [64 FR 29135, May 28, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 42887, July 12, 2000; 67 FR 77438, Dec. 18, 2002; 68 FR 32417, May 30, 2003; 68 FR 56788, Oct. 2, 2003; 68 FR 74511, Dec. 24, 2003; 69 FR 40758, July 6, 2004; 70 FR 10900, Mar. 7, 2005; 71 FR 58169, Oct. 2, 2006; 76 FR 39031, July 5, 2011; 76 FR 74009, Nov. 30, 2011; 79 FR 71601, Dec. 2, 2014; 82 FR 57550, Dec. 6, 2017; 83 FR 33156, July 17, 2018; 86 FR 43428, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 60004, Oct. 3, 2022; 89 FR 47104, May 31, 2024]




