# ยง 247.1   Definitions.

Following is a list of definitions that apply to the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP).


*2 CFR part 200,* means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) does not apply to the National School Lunch Program).


*Applicant* means any person who applies to receive program benefits. Applicants include program participants applying for recertification.


*Caseload* means the number of persons the State agency may serve on an average monthly basis over the course of the caseload cycle.


*Caseload cycle* means the period from January 1 through the following December 31.


*Certification* means the use of procedures to determine an applicant's eligibility for the program.


*Certification period* means the period during which a CSFP participant may continue to receive benefits under CSFP without a formal review of eligibility.


*CSFP* means the Commodity Supplemental Food Program.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Disqualification* means the act of ending Program participation of a participant as a punitive sanction.


*Dual participation* means the simultaneous participation by an individual in CSFP at more than one distribution site.


*Fiscal year* means the period from October 1 through the following September 30.


*FNS* means the Food and Nutrition Service.


*Local agency* means a public or private nonprofit agency, including an Indian tribal organization, which enters into an agreement with the State agency to administer CSFP at the local level.


*Nonprofit agency* means a private agency or organization with tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code, or that has applied for tax-exempt status with the Internal Revenue Service.


*Proxy* means any person designated by a participant or caretaker to obtain USDA Foods on behalf of the participant.


*7 CFR part 250* means the Department's regulations pertaining to the donation of foods for use in USDA food distribution programs.


*State* means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State agency* means the agency designated by the State to administer CSFP at the State level; an Indian tribe or tribal organization recognized by the Department of the Interior that administers the program for a specified tribe or tribes; or, the appropriate area office of the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.


*State Plan* means the document that describes the manner in which the State agency intends to administer the program in the State.


*Subdistributing agency* means an agency or organization that has entered into an agreement with the State agency to perform functions normally performed by the State, such as entering into agreements with eligible recipient agencies under which USDA Foods are made available, ordering USDA Foods and/or making arrangements for the storage and delivery of such USDA Foods on behalf of eligible recipient agencies.


*USDA Foods* means nutritious foods purchased by USDA to supplement the diets of CSFP participants, also referred to as donated foods.


*USDA implementing regulations* include the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.



---

[N] [70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 66495, Sept. 28, 2016; 85 FR 68721, Oct. 30, 2020, 89 FR 87244, Oct. 31, 2024]




