# § 161.002-18   System method of applications for equipment approval.

(a) The manufacturer must submit the following material to the Commandant (CG-ENG), according to § 159.001-5 of this subchapter:


(1) A formal written request that the system be reviewed for approval.


(2) The system's instruction manual, including information concerning installation, maintenance, limitations, programming, operation, and troubleshooting.


(3) Proof of listing the system devices meeting the requirements of § 161.002-6(a).


(4) The complete test report(s) meeting the requirements of § 161.002-6 generated by an independent laboratory accepted by the Commandant under part 159 of this subchapter or an NRTL as set forth in 29 CFR 1910.7. A current list of Coast Guard-accepted laboratories may be obtained from the following website: *https://cgmix.uscg.mil/eqlabs/.*

(5) A list prepared by the manufacturer that contains the name, model number, and function of each major component and accessory, such as the main control cabinet, remote annunciator cabinet, detector, zone card, isolator, central processing unit, zener barrier, special purpose module, or power supply. This list must be identified by the following information assigned by the manufacturer:


(i) A document number;


(ii) A revision number (the original submission being revision number 0); and


(iii) The date that the manufacturer created or revised the list.




(b) The Coast Guard distributes a copy of the approved instruction manual to the manufacturer and to the Coast Guard Marine Safety Center (MSC).


(c) The manufacturer must maintain an account of the equipment offered for approval. The list identification information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii) of this section appears on the Certificate of Approval and indicates the official compilation of components for the approved system. If the manufacturer seeks to apply subsequently for the approval of a revision (because of, for example, additional accessories becoming available, replacements to obsolete components, or a change in materials or standards of safety), changes to the approved list must be submitted for review and approval.


(d) To apply for a revision, the manufacturer must submit—


(1) A written request under paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) An updated list under paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and


(3) A report by an independent laboratory accepted by the Commandant under part 159 of this chapter,  or an NRTL as set forth in 29 CFR 1910.7 to document compliance with § 161.002-6. 


(e) If the Coast Guard approves the system or a revision to a system, it issues a certificate, normally valid for a 5-year term, containing the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii)  of this section.



---

[N] [CGD 94-108, 61 FR 28292, June 4, 1996, as amended by USCG-1999-6216, 64 FR 53228, Oct. 1, 1999; USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60160, Sept. 30, 2013; USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48276, July 22, 2016; USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76703, Sept. 18, 2024]






