# ยง 38.5   Grant assistance.

(a) *Eligibility.* Public agencies and private nonprofit mental health organizations which are determined by the Secretary to be capable of providing the professional mental health crisis counseling services or mental health training of disaster workers needed as a result of a major disaster are eligible for a grant award under this part. 


(b) *Application.* The application shall contain: 


(1) A proposed plan for the provision of the services for which grant assistance is requested; 


(2) A proposed budget for the expenditure of the requested grant funds; and 


(3) Such other pertinent information and assurances as the Secretary may require. 


(c) *Grant awards.* (1) Preference will be given, to the extent feasible and practicable, to those public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations which are located or do business primarily in the area affected by the major disaster. 


(2) Within the limits of the funds advanced by the Administrator, the amount of any grant award shall be determined on the basis of the Secretary's estimate of the sum necessary to carry out the grant purpose. 


(3) Neither the approval of any application nor the award of any grant commits or obligates the United States in any way to make any additional, supplemental, continuation, or other award with respect to any approved application or portion of an approved application. 


(d) *Other HHS regulations that apply.* Several other regulations apply to grants under this grant. These include, but are not limited to:


(e) *Expenditure of grant funds.* Any funds granted pursuant to this part shall be expended solely for the purposes for which the funds were granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and the conditions of the award, and the applicable cost principles prescribed in 45 CFR part 75, subpart E. 


(f) *Reports.* In exceptional circumstances, a grantee may be required to submit special progress reports, in addition to those otherwise required, relating to the conduct and results of the approved grant. 



---

[N] [41 FR 52052, Nov. 26, 1976, as amended at 45 FR 57396, Aug. 28, 1980; 49 FR 38109, Sept. 27, 1984; 81 FR 3006, Jan. 20, 2016]




