# § 154.31   Notices of Preliminary Determination.

The Administrator shall prepare a Notice of Preliminary Determination after the close of the comment period on a Notice of Special Review.


(a) *Contents of notice.* The Notice of Preliminary Determination shall respond to all significant comments submitted in response to the Notice of Special Review. For each use of a pesticide product that was the subject of the Notice of Special Review, the Notice of Preliminary Determination shall also include, as appropriate:


(1) A determination whether the use satisfies any of the risk criteria set forth in § 154.7, and a discussion of the reasons for the determination.


(2) A determination of whether any changes in the composition, packaging, labeling, or restrictions on use of a pesticide product that were proposed in an application for new or amended registration submitted after issuance of the Notice of Special Review would reduce the risk so that the use no longer would satisfy any of the risk criteria in § 154.7.


(3) If the use satisfies any of the risk criteria set forth in § 154.7, a determination of whether the adverse effects posed by the use are unreasonable, taking into account the economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits of the use of the product, and a discussion of reasons for the determination.


(4) If the use is determined to pose an unreasonable adverse effect, a statement of the regulatory action, if any, which the Agency intends to initiate with respect to the use, and a discussion of the reasons for initiating that regulatory action.


(5) A statement that the Administrator is requesting comments from the Secretary of Agriculture and the Scientific Advisory Panel on the notices and analysis specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and that the notices and analysis are available on request.


(6) Instructions to interested persons on how to submit comments (including the deadline for submission of comments).


(7) The location of the docket under § 154.15 and the times during which the docket will be available for inspection and copying.


(b) *Referral to Secretary of Agriculture and Scientific Advisory Panel.* If the Administrator proposes to cancel, deny, or change the classification of the registration of a pesticide product which is the subject of a Special Review, or to hold a hearing under FIFRA section 6(b)(2) on whether to take any of those actions, he shall:


(1) Prepare a proposed form of a Notice of Intent to Cancel, a Notice of Intent to Deny Registration, a Notice of Intent to Hold a Hearing, and/or a Notice of Intent to Change Classification, as appropriate.


(2) Prepare an Agricultural Impact Analysis, analyzing the impact of the proposed action on production and prices of agricultural commodities, retail food prices, and otherwise on the agricultural economy.


(3) Send the proposed notices and analysis to the Secretary of Agriculture and the Scientific Advisory Panel for comment, as provided by the Act.


(4) Send the Notice of Preliminary Determination and the other notices and analysis prepared under this section to all registrants and applicants for registration of products that are subject to the Special Review.


(c) *Publication.* The Agency shall issue the Notice of Preliminary Determination for publication in the _Federal Register._

