# ยง 36.4279   Extensions and reamortizations.

(a) Provided the debtor(s) is (are) a reasonable credit risk(s), as determined by the holder based upon review of the debtor's (s') creditworthiness, including a review of a current credit report(s) on the debtor(s), the terms of repayment of any loan may, by written agreement between the holder and debtor(s), be extended in the event of default, to avoid imminent default, or in any other case where the prior approval of the Secretary is obtained. Except with the prior approval of the Secretary, no such extension shall set a rate of amortization less than that sufficient to fully amortize at least 80 percent of the loan balance so extended within the maximum maturity prescribed for loans of its class.


(b) In the event of a partial prepayment pursuant to ยง 36.4211, the balance of the indebtedness may, by written agreement between the holder and the debtor(s), be reamortized, provided the reamortization schedule will result in full repayment of the loan within the original maturity, and provided the debtor(s) is (are) a reasonable credit risk(s), as determined by the holder based upon review of the debtor's (s') creditworthiness, including a review of a current credit report(s) on the debtor(s).


(c) Unless the prior approval of the Secretary has been obtained, any extension or reamortization agreed to by a holder which relieves any obligor from liability will release the liability of the Secretary under the guaranty on the entire loan. However, if such release of liability of an obligor results through operation of law by reason of an extension or other act of forbearance, the liability of the Secretary as guarantor will not be affected thereby, *Provided,* The required lien is maintained and the title holder is and will remain liable for the payment of the indebtedness: *And further provided,* That if such extension or act of forbearance will result in the release of the veteran, all delinquent installments, plus any foreclosure expenses which may have been incurred, shall have been fully paid. 


(d) The holder shall promptly forward to the Secretary an advice of the terms of any agreement effecting a reamortization or extension of a guaranteed loan, together with cop(y)(ies) of the credit report(s) obtained on the debtor(s).



---

[N] [36 FR 1253, Jan. 27, 1971, as amended at 53 FR 34295, Sept. 6, 1988]




