# ยง 128.700   How does a VOSB obtain Federal surplus personal property?

(a) *General.* (1) Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 657b(g), eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans may receive surplus Federal Government property from State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs). The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to such concerns.


(2) The surplus personal property which may be transferred to SASPs for further transfer to eligible small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans includes all surplus personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.


(b) *Eligibility to receive Federal surplus personal property.* To be eligible to receive Federal surplus personal property, on the date of transfer a concern must:


(1) Be a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans, that has been certified by SBA under this part;


(2) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under title 2 or title 48 of the CFR; and


(3) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it.


(c) *Use of acquired surplus personal property.* (1) Eligible concerns may acquire Federal surplus personal property from the SASP in the state(s) where the concern is located and operates, provided the concern represents and agrees in writing:


(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus personal property is to be;


(ii) That it will use the surplus personal property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;


(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the surplus personal property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government as required by General Services Administration (GSA) and SASP requirements and guidelines;


(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the surplus personal property to a SASP if directed to do so by SBA, including where the concern has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;


(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the surplus personal property, it will be liable to the Federal Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and


(vi) That it will give GSA and the SASP access to inspect the surplus personal property and all records pertaining to it.


(2) A concern receiving surplus personal property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property, and all costs associated with the use and maintenance of the property.


(d) *Costs.* Concerns acquiring surplus personal property from a SASP may be required to pay a service fee to the SASP in accordance with 41 CFR 102-37.280. In no instance will any SASP charge a concern more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.


(e) *Title.* Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the firm receiving the property has only conditional title to the property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the property will vest in the recipient concern only after the recipient concern has met all of the requirements of this part and the requirements of GSA and the SASP that it received the property from.






