# § 63.1403   Emission standards.

(a) *Provisions of this subpart.* Except as allowed under paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the provisions of §§ 63.1404 through 63.1410, as appropriate. When emissions are vented to a control device or control technology as part of complying with this subpart, emissions shall be vented through a closed vent system meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS (national emission standards for closed vent systems, control devices, recovery devices and routing to a fuel gas system or a process).


(b) *Combined emission streams.* When emissions of different kinds (e.g., emissions from continuous process vents, storage vessels, etc.) are combined at a new affected source, and at least one of the emission streams would be required by this subpart to apply controls in the absence of combination with other emission streams, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate. 


(1) For any combined vent stream that includes one or more aggregate batch vent streams, comply with the provisions for aggregate batch vent streams. 


(2) For any combined vent stream that does not include one or more aggregate batch vent streams: 


(i) Reactor batch process vents and non-reactor batch process vents shall comply with the provisions for reactor batch process vents and non-reactor batch process vents, as appropriate. 


(ii) The remaining emissions (i.e., storage vessel and/or continuous process vent emissions) included in the combined vent stream shall comply the provisions for storage vessels when storage vessel emissions are included and shall comply with the provisions for continuous process vents in the absence of storage vessel emissions (i.e., when only continuous process vents are included). 


(c) *Compliance for flexible operations process units.* With the exceptions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, owners or operators of APPUs that are flexible operations process units shall comply with the provisions of this subpart at all times, regardless of the product being manufactured. Once it has been determined that an emission point requires control during manufacture of amino/phenolic resins, that emission point shall be controlled at all times regardless of the product being manufactured. 


(1) When a flexible operations process unit is manufacturing a product in which no organic HAP are used or manufactured, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of this subpart or with the provisions of subpart A of this part during manufacture of that product. When requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator shall demonstrate that no organic HAP are used or manufactured. 


(2) When a flexible operations process unit is manufacturing a product subject to subpart GGG of this part, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of this subpart during manufacture of that product (i.e., a pharmaceutical). 



---

[N] [65 FR 3290, Jan. 20, 2000, as amended at 83 FR 51852, Oct. 15, 2018]




