# ยง 200.926a   Residential building code comparison items.

HUD will review each local and State code submitted under this subpart to determine whether it regulates all of the following areas and subareas:


(a) *Fire Safety.* (1) Allowable height;


(2) Fire separations;


(3) Fire resistance requirements;


(4) Egress doors and windows;


(5) Unit smoke detectors;


(6) Flame spread.


(b) *Light and ventilation.* (1) Habitable rooms;


(2) Bath and toilet rooms.


(c) *Structural loads and seismic design.* (1) Design live loads;


(2) Design dead loads;


(3) Snow loads (for jurisdictions with snow loading conditions identified in Section 7 of ASCE-7-88 (formerly ANSI A58.1-82); 


(4) Wind loads;


(5) Earthquake loads (for jurisdictions in seismic zones 3 or 4, as identified in Section 9 of ASCE-7-88 (formerly ANSI A58.1-82)). 


(d) *Foundation systems.* (1) Foundation depths;


(2) Footings;


(3) Foundation materials criteria.


(e) *Materials standards.* (1) Materials standards.


(f) *Construction components.* (1) Steel;


(2) Masonry;


(3) Concrete;


(4) Lumber;


(5) Roof construction and covering;


(6) Chimneys and fireplaces.


(g) *Glass.* (1) Thickness/area requirements;


(2) Safety glazing.


(h) *Mechanical.* (1) Heating, cooling and ventilation systems;


(2) Gas, liquid and solid fuel piping and equipment;


(3) Chimneys and vents;


(4) Ventilation (air changes).


(i) *Plumbing.* (1) Materials standards;


(2) Sizing and installing drainage systems;


(3) Vents and venting;


(4) Traps;


(5) Cleanouts;


(6) Plumbing fixtures;


(7) Water supply and distribution;


(8) Sewage disposal systems.


(j) *Electrical.* (1) Branch circuits;


(2) Services;


(3) Grounding;


(4) Wiring methods;


(5) Cable;


(6) Conduit;


(7) Outlets, switches and junction boxes;


(8) Panelboards.



---

[N] [50 FR 39594, Sept. 27, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 36695, July 19, 1994]




