# § 32.49   New Jersey.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Cape May National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of light goose, dark goose, duck, sea duck, gallinule, coot, rail, snipe, crow, and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) The snipe and crow season on the refuge begins with the start of the State woodcock south zone season and continues through the end of the State snipe and crow seasons.


(iii) We prohibit falconry.


(iv) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, woodchuck, rabbit, squirrel, and pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow woodchuck hunting from the beginning of the State woodcock south zone season until the end of the State rabbit season.


(iii) Coyote, fox, rabbit, squirrel, and pheasant seasons open at the beginning of the State woodcock south zone season and close in accordance with the State seasons for each species.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) Tree stands must be marked with the owner's New Jersey conservation identification number.


(iii) We allow turkey hunting during the State fall season.


(iv) We require the use of nontoxic ammunition for turkey hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow saltwater sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from 1 hour before legal sunrise to 1 hour after legal sunset.


(ii) We close the Atlantic Ocean portion of the Two Mile Beach Unit annually to all access, including fishing, between April 1 and September 30.


(iii) We prohibit fishing for, or possession of, crab or shellfish on refuge lands.


(b) *Edwin B. Forsythe National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl, coot, moorhen, and rail on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require hunters to possess a signed refuge hunt permit (Migratory Bird Hunt Application FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) You must mark deer stands with the hunter's New Jersey Conservation Identification Number. You must remove deer stands from the refuge at the end of the last day of the hunting season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of lead fishing tackle on the refuge.


(c) *Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of Canada goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) Hunters must obtain a refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439), and possess the signed refuge permit at all times while hunting or scouting on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote and fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We only allow the incidental take of coyote and fox during the refuge deer and turkey hunts.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require the use of nontoxic shot while hunting wild turkey.


(ii) We allow hunters to use sleds to retrieve deer in the Wilderness Area east of Long Hill/New Vernon Road. We prohibit wheeled game carriers in the Wilderness Area.


(iii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Supawna Meadows National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of light goose, dark goose, duck, sea duck, gallinule, coot, crow, rail, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) We prohibit falconry.


(iii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, woodchuck, rabbit, squirrel, and pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow woodchuck hunting only during the State coyote and fox seasons.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require the use of nontoxic ammunition for turkey hunting.


(iii) We allow archery hunting for white-tailed deer during all six State Deer Management Zone 63 seasons and on youth hunting days.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the taking of frogs and turtles from all nontidal waters and refuge lands (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow fishing in designated nontidal waters from 1 hour before legal sunrise to 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit bow fishing in nontidal waters.


(iv) We prohibit fishing for, or possession of, crab and shellfish on refuge lands.


(e) *Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must obtain a refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System). We require hunters to possess a signed refuge hunt permit at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal shooting time and must leave no later than 2 hours after legal shooting time.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of coyote, fox, crow, ruffed grouse, opossum, raccoon, pheasant, chukar, rabbit/hare/jackrabbit, squirrel, and woodchuck on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iii) We require the use of nontoxic ammunition for turkey hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) At Owens Station Crossing and Hidden Ponds fishing areas, we allow catch-and-release fishing only.


(ii) We allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit the taking of amphibians and reptiles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit minnow and bait trapping.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54127, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48871, Aug. 31, 2021]




