# § 52.726   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) Part D—Conditional Approval—The Illinois plan is approved provided that the following conditions are satisfied:


(1) [Reserved]


(2) The State conducts a study to demonstrate that the 75 percent overall control efficiency requirement in Rule 205(n) represents RACT, submits the results of the study to USEPA, and submits any necessary regulations representing RACT to the Illinois Pollution Control Board. The State must comply with these conditions by February 28, 1981. Any necessary regulations must be finally promulgated by the State and submitted to USEPA by February 28, 1982.


(3) Extension of Condition—USEPA approves the date of July 31, 1984 for the State of Illinois to satisfy the condition of approval to the ozone State Implementation Plan listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) Disapproval—USEPA disapproves the compliance schedule in Rule 205(j) as it applies to loading rack controls for all emission sources subject to Rule 205(b)(1), as approved by USEPA on May 31, 1972 which were required to be in compliance by December 31, 1973. This disapproval does not in and of itself result in the growth restrictions of section 110(a)(2)(I).


(c) *Negative Declarations—Stationary Source Categories.* The State of Illinois has certified to the satisfaction of USEPA that no sources are located in the nonattainment areas of the State which are covered by the following Control Technique Guidelines:


(1) High density polyethylene and polypropylene manufacturers.


(2) Vegetable oil processing sources with volatile organic compound emissions equal to or greater than 100 tons per year.


(d) Part D Disapproval—The Administrator finds that Illinois' ozone plan for Cook, Lake, DuPage and Kane Counties, which was required to be submitted by July 1, 1982, does not satisfy all the requirements of Part D, Title I of the Clean Air Act and, thus, is disapproved. No major new stationary source, of major modification of a stationary source, or volatile organic compounds may be constructed in Cook, Lake, DuPage or Kane Counties, unless the construction permit application is complete on or before November 16, 1988. This disapproval does not affect USEPA's approval (or conditional approval) of individual parts of Illinois' ozone plan, and they remain approved.


(e) Disapproval—The Administrator finds that the following State rules have not been demonstrated to be consistent with the reasonably available control technology requirements of section 172 of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1977, and thus, are disapproved: subpart F, section 215.204(c); subpart F, section 215.206(b); subpart F, section 215.204(j)(4); subpart I; subpart AA; subpart PP; subpart QQ; subpart RR; subpart A, section 215.102; subpart T; subpart H, section 215.245; subpart F, section 215.207; and subpart A, section 215.107, all of title 35; Environmental Protection; subtitle B: Air Pollution; Chapter 1: Pollution Control Board of the Illinois Administrative Code (June 1989).


(f) On September 30, 1992, the State submitted rules regulating volatile organic compound emissions from gasoline dispensing facilities' motor vehicle fuel operations (Stage II vapor recovery rules) in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency Bureau of Air must as part of the program conduct inspections of facilities subject to this rule to ensure compliance with the applicable rules. These inspections will be conducted on an annual basis or an alternative schedule as approved in the USEPA Fiscal Year Inspection Program Plan. 


(g) Approval—The Administrator approves the incorporation of the photochemical assessment ambient monitoring system submitted by Illinois on November 4, 1993, into the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This submittal satisfies 40 CFR 58.20(f) which requires the State to provide for the establishment and maintenance of photochemical assessment monitoring stations (PAMS) by November 12, 1993.


(h) Approval—On November 12, 1993, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency submitted an ozone redesignation request and maintenance plan for Jersey County ozone nonattainment area and requested that Jersey County be redesignated to attainment for ozone. The redesignation request and maintenance plan meet the redesignation requirements in section 107(d)(3)(d) of the Act. The redesignation meets the Federal requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act as a revision to the Illinois ozone State Implementation Plan for Jersey County. 


(i) The base year (1990) ozone emission inventory requirement of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990, has been satisfied for the following Illinois ozone nonattainment areas: the Chicago nonattainment area—Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, Will and McHenry Counties, Aux Sable and Gooselake Townships in Grundy County, and Oswego Township in Kendall County; the Metro-East St. Louis nonattainment area—Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties; and Jersey County.


(j) Approval—On July 14, 1994, Illinois submitted two of three elements required by section 182(d)(1)(A) of the Clean Air Amendments of 1990 to be incorporated as part of the vehicle miles traveled (VMT) State Implementation Plan intended to offset any growth in emissions from a growth in vehicle miles traveled. These elements are the offsetting of growth in emissions attributable to growth in VMT which was due November 15, 1992, and, transportation control measures (TCMs) required as part of Illinois' 15 percent reasonable further progress (RFP) plan which was due November 15, 1993. Illinois satisfied the first requirement by projecting emissions from mobile sources and demonstrating that no increase in emissions would take place. Illinois satisfied the second requirement by submitting the TCMs listed in Table 1 which are now approved into the Illinois SIP.


(k) Approval—EPA is approving the section 182(f) oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_) reasonably available control technology (RACT), new source review (NSR), vehicle inspection/maintenance (I/M), and general conformity exemptions for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County severe ozone nonattainment area as requested by the States of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin in a July 13, 1994 submittal. This approval does not cover the exemption of NO_X_ transportation conformity requirements of section 176(c) for this area. Approval of these exemptions is contingent on the results of the final ozone attainment demonstration expected to be submitted in mid-1997. The approval will be modified if the final attainment demonstration demonstrates that NO_X_ emission controls are needed in the nonattainment area to attain the ozone standard in the Lake Michigan Ozone Study modeling domain. 


(l) Approval—The United States Environmental Protection Agency is approving under section 182(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act the exemption of the Chicago severe, ozone nonattainment area from the build/no-build and less than-1990 interim transportation conformity oxides of nitrogen requirements as requested by the State of Illinois in a June 20, 1995 submittal. In light of the modeling completed thus far and considering the importance of the OTAG process and attainment plan modeling efforts, USEPA grants this NO_X_ waiver on a contingent basis. As the OTAG modeling results and control recommendations are completed in 1996, this information will be incorporated into attainment plans being developed by the LADCO States. When these attainment plans are submitted to USEPA in mid-1997, these new modeling analyses will be reviewed to determine if the NO_X_ waiver should be continued, altered, or removed. USEPA's rulemaking action to reconsider the initial NO_X_ waiver may occur simultaneously with rulemaking action on the attainment plans. The USEPA also reserves the right to require NO_X_ emission controls for transportation sources under section 110(a)(2)(D) of the Act if future ozone modeling demonstrates that such controls are needed to achieve the ozone standard in downwind areas. The Chicago severe ozone nonattainment area includes the Counties of Cook, DuPage, Grundy (Aux Sable and Gooselake Townships), Kane, Kendall (Oswego Township), Lake, McHenry, and Will.


(m) [Reserved]


(n) Negative declaration—Shipbuilding and ship repair industry. On October 11, 1996, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the shipbuilding and ship repair industry are located in the Chicago, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, Will Counties and Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County and Oswego Township in Kendall County or the Metro-East, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties.


(o) Negative declaration—Aerospace manufacturing and rework industry. On October 11, 1996, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Industry are located in the Chicago, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, Will Counties and Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County and Oswego Township in Kendall County or the Metro-East, Illinois ozone nonattainment area which is comprised of Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties.


(p) Approval—On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Chicago ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. These plans satisfy sections 182(b)(1), 172(c)(9), and 182(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. 


(q) Approval—On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Metro-East St. Louis ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. These plans satisfy sections 182(b)(1) and 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. 


(r) Approval—On November 15, 1993, Illinois submitted the following transportation control measures as part of the 15 percent rate-of-progress and 3 percent contingency plans for the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area: Work trip reductions; transit improvements; and traffic flow improvements. 


(s) On October 10, 1997, Illinois submitted a site-specific revision to the State Implementation Plan, in the form of a letter from Bharat Mathur, Chief, Bureau of Air, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. This October 10, 1997, letter requests a change in regulatory status for Riverside Laboratories, Inc.'s Kane County facility, to reflect that the Federal site-specific rule for Riverside (40 CFR 52.741(e)(10)) has been superseded by the State of Illinois regulations, including the emission limits in 35 Illinois Administrative Code 218.204(c) and the associated control requirements, test methods and recordkeeping requirements in Part 218 and the associated definitions in part 211. These State regulations shall become the federally approved regulations applicable to Riverside on August 31, 1998. The site-specific rule, applicable to Riverside, promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency on August 21, 1995 (40 CFR 52.741(e)(10)), remains in effect and is enforceable after August 31, 1998 for the period before August 31, 1998. 


(t) The Illinois volatile organic compound (VOC) rules that apply to the Stepan Company Millsdale Plant for volatile organic liquid storage (35 Ill. Admin. Code Part 218, Subpart B), batch processing (35 Ill. Admin. Code Parts 218 and 219, Subpart V) and continuous reactor and distillation processes (35 Ill. Admin. Code Part 218, Subpart Q) were approved by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) on August 8, 1996, April 2, 1996, and June 17, 1997, respectively. Because these rules have been approved into the State Implementation Plan and represent reasonably available control technology for VOC, USEPA revokes the June 29, 1990 Federal Implementation Plan as it applies to Stepan and replaces it with Illinois' volatile organic liquid storage, batch process, and continuous reactor and distillation process rules.


(u) Negative declaration—Industrial wastewater category. On October 2, 1998, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial wastewater category are located in the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area (Metro-East). The Metro-East area is comprised of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair Counties which are located in southwest Illinois, adjacent to St. Louis, Missouri.


(v) Negative declaration—Industrial cleaning solvents category. On October 2, 1998, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial cleaning solvents category are located in the Metro-East ozone nonattainment area (Metro-East). The Metro-East area is comprised of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair Counties which are located in southwest Illinois, adjacent to St. Louis, Missouri.


(w) *Approval*—On December 18, 1997, December 17, 1999, January 14, 2000, and January 21, 2000, Illinois submitted a post-1996 Rate Of Progress Plan for the Chicago ozone nonattainment area as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This plan reduces ozone precursor emissions by 9 percent from 1990 baseline emissions by November 15, 1999. This plan also supports a mobile source emissions budget of 279.3 tons/day of volatile organic compounds for transportation conformity purposes. 


(x) *Approval*—On December 18, 1997, Illinois submitted a contingency measure plan as part of the Chicago Area post-1996 Rate of Progress Plan. This plan reduces volatile organic compound emissions in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area by 3 percent from 1990 baseline emissions by November 15, 1999. 


(y) *Approval*—On December 18, 1997, Illinois submitted Transportation Control Measures (TCMs) as part of the post-1996 Rate Of Progress Plan for the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The TCMs being approved are listed in the following documents published by the Chicago Area Transportation Study: “Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the Post-1996 Rate-Of-Progress State Implementation Plan,” March 22, 1996; “Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the 9 percent Control Strategy State Implementation Plan,” June 11, 1998; and “1999 Transportation Control Measures Contribution to the 9 percent Rate of Progress Control Strategy State Implementation Plan,” December 9, 1999.


(z) Negative declaration—Industrial cleaning solvents category. On December 23, 1999, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the industrial cleaning solvents category are located in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Chicago ozone nonattainment area includes Cook County, DuPage County, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, Kane County, Oswego Township in Kendall County, Lake County, McHenry County and Will County.


(aa) Negative declaration—Industrial wastewater category. On December 23, 1999, the State of Illinois certified to the satisfaction of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that no major sources categorized as part of the Industrial Wastewater Category are located in the Chicago ozone nonattainment area. The Chicago ozone nonattainment area includes Cook County, DuPage County, Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships in Grundy County, Kane County, Oswego Township in Kendall County, Lake County, McHenry County and Will County.


(bb) Approval—Revisions to the SIP submitted by Illinois on November 15, 1999; February 10, 2000; April 13, 2001; and April 30, 2001. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Act for the Metro-East St. Louis area. The revision establishes an attainment date of November 15, 2004, for the St. Louis moderate ozone nonattainment area. This revision establishes MVEBs for 2004 of 26.62 TPD of VOC and 35.52 TPD of NO_X_ to be used in transportation conformity in the Metro-East St. Louis area until revised budgets pursuant to MOBILE6 are submitted and found adequate. In the revision, Illinois commits to revise its VOC and NO_X_ transportation conformity budgets within two years of the release of MOBILE6. No conformity determinations will be made during the second year following the release of MOBILE6 unless and until the MVEBs have been recalculated using MOBILE6 and found adequate by EPA. EPA is granting a waiver for the Metro East St. Louis area to the state of Illinois from the NO_X_ RACT requirements of the Act and disapproving the request for a waiver from the NO_X_ NSR and NO_X_ general conformity requirements. EPA is finding that the Contingency Measures identified by Illinois are adequate to meet the requirements of the Act. EPA finds that the Illinois SIP meets the requirements pertaining to RACM under the Act for the Metro-East St. Louis area.


(cc) Approval—Illinois has adopted and USEPA has approved sufficient NO_X_ emission regulations to assure that it will achieve the level of NO_X_ emissions budgeted for the State by USEPA. USEPA has made two minor budget revisions requested by Illinois, adding a boiler owned by LTV Steel and deleting a boiler owned by the University of Illinois from the inventory of large NO_X_ sources.


(dd) Chicago Ozone Attainment Demonstration Approval—On December 26, 2000, Illinois submitted a one-hour ozone attainment demonstration plan as a requested revision to the Illinois State Implementation Plan. This plan includes: A modeled demonstration of attainment and associated attainment year conformity emission budgets; a plan to reduce ozone precursor emissions by 3 percent per year from 2000 to 2007 (a post-1999 rate-of-progress plan), and associated conformity emission budgets; a contingency measures plan for both the ozone attainment demonstration and the post-1999 rate-of-progress plan; a commitment to conduct a Mid-Course Review of the ozone attainment demonstration by the end of 2004; a demonstration that Illinois has implemented all reasonably available control measures; and a commitment to revise motor vehicle emission budgets within two years after the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency officially releases the MOBILE6 emission factor model.


(ee) Approval of the Maintenance Plan for the Illinois Portion of the St. Louis Area—On December 30, 2002 Illinois submitted Maintenance Plan for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis Nonattainment Area. The plan includes 2014 On-Road Motor Vehicle Emission Budget of 10.13 tons per ozone season weekday of VOCs and 18.72 tons per ozone season weekday NO_X_ to be used in transportation conformity.


(ff) Approval—On April 11, 2003, Illinois submitted a revision to the ozone attainment plan for the Chicago severe 1-hour ozone nonattainment area. This plan revised the 2005 and 2007 Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) recalculated using the emissions factor model MOBILE6. The approved motor vehicle emissions budgets are 151.11 tons per day VOC for 2005 and 127.42 tons per day VOC and 280.4 tons per day NO_X_ for 2007.


(gg) Approval—On January 30, 2007, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) requested that EPA find that the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana (IL-IN) nonattainment area, attained the revoked 1-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). After review of this submission, EPA approves this finding.


(hh) *Disapproval.* EPA is disapproving 35 Illinois Administrative Code part 217, subpart X, Voluntary NO_X_ Emissions Reduction Program, as a revision to the Illinois SIP.


(ii) *Approval.* EPA is approving a July 29, 2010, request from the State of Illinois for a waiver from the Clean Air Act requirement for Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) in the Illinois portions of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana (Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties, and portions of Grundy (Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships) and Kendall (Oswego Township) Counties in Illinois) and St. Louis, Missouri-Illinois (Jersey, Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties in Illinois) 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment areas.


(jj) *Determination of attainment.* On June 5, 2009, the state of Indiana requested that EPA find that the Indiana portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana (IL-IN) ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS). After review of Indiana's submission and 2006-2008 ozone air quality data for this ozone nonattainment area, EPA finds that the entire Chicago-Gary-Lake County, IL-IN area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. Therefore, EPA has determined, as of March 12, 2010, that Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties, and portions of Grundy County (Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships) and Kendall County (Oswego Township) in Illinois have attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.


(kk) *Determination of attainment.* EPA has determined, as of June 9, 2011, that the St. Louis (MO-IL) metropolitan 1997 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS. This determination, in accordance with 40 CFR 51.918, suspends the requirements for this area to submit an attainment demonstration, associated reasonably available control measures, reasonable further progress, contingency measures, and other plan elements related to attainment of the standards for as long as the area continues to meet the 1997 Ozone NAAQS. In addition, based upon EPA's review of the air quality data for the 3-year period 2007 to 2009, the St. Louis (MO-IL) ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of June 15, 2010.


(ll) *Approval*—On May 26, 2010, and September 16, 2011, Illinois submitted a request to redesignate the Illinois portion of the St. Louis, MO-IL area to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. The St. Louis area includes Jersey, Madison, Monroe, and St. Clair Counties in Illinois and St. Louis City and Franklin, Jefferson, St. Charles and St. Louis Counties in Missouri. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a plan for maintaining the 1997 8-hour ozone standard through 2025 in the area as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Part of the section 175A maintenance plan includes a contingency plan. The ozone maintenance plan establishes 2008 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis area of 17.27 tpd for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 52.57 tpd for nitrogen oxides (NO_X_). In addition the maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis area of 5.68 tpd for VOC and 15.22 tpd for NO_X_.


(mm) *Emissions inventories for the 1997 8-hour ozone standard*—


(1) *Approval*—Illinois' 2002 emissions inventory satisfies the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Illinois portion of the St. Louis, MO-IL area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.


(2) Approval—Illinois' 2002 volatile organic compounds and nitrogen oxides emission inventories satisfy the emissions inventory requirements of section 182(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area under the 1997 8-hour ozone standard.


(nn) Approval—On July 23, 2009, and September 16, 2011, Illinois submitted a request to redesignate the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area to attainment of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. The Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area includes Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, and Will Counties and portions of Grundy (Aux Sable and Goose Lake Townships) and Kendall (Oswego Township) Counties. As part of the redesignation request, the State submitted a plan for maintaining the 1997 8-hour ozone standard through 2025 in the area as required by section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Part of the section 175A maintenance plan includes a contingency plan. The ozone maintenance plan establishes 2008 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area of 117.23 tons per day (tpd) for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and 373.52 tpd for nitrogen oxides (NO_X_). In addition, the maintenance plan establishes 2025 motor vehicle emissions budgets for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area of 48.13 tpd for VOC and 125.27 tpd for NO_X_.


(oo) Approval—On March 28, 2014, the State of Illinois submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan for the Illinois portion of the Chicago-Gary-Lake County, Illinois-Indiana area (the Greater Chicago Area). The submittal established new Motor Vehicle Emissions Budgets (MVEB) for Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) and Oxides of Nitrogen (NO_X_) for the year 2025. The MVEBs for the Illinois portion of the Greater Chicago Area are: 60.13 tons/day of VOC emissions and 150.27 tons/day of NO_X_ emissions for the year 2025.


(pp) On September 3, 2014, Illinois submitted 2011 volatile organic compounds and oxides of nitrogen emission inventories for the Illinois portions of the Chicago-Naperville, Illinois-Indiana-Wisconsin and St. Louis, Missouri-Illinois nonattainment areas for the 2008 ozone national ambient air quality standard as a revision of the Illinois state implementation plan. The emission inventories are approved as a revision of the state's implementation plan.


(qq) *Determination of attainment.* As required by section 181(b)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, EPA has determined that the St. Louis, MO-IL marginal 2008 ozone nonattainment area has attained the NAAQS by the applicable attainment date of July 20, 2016.



---

[N] [45 FR 55197, Aug. 19, 1980]


