# § 63.1412   Continuous process vent applicability assessment procedures and methods.

(a) *General.* The provisions of this section provide procedures and methods for determining the applicability of the control requirements specified in § 63.1405(a) to continuous process vents.


(b) *Sampling sites.* Sampling sites shall be located as follows: 


(1) *Sampling site location.* The sampling site for determining volumetric flow rate, regulated organic HAP concentration, total organic HAP, net heating value, and TRE index value, shall be after the final recovery device (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to the inlet of any control device that is present and prior to release to the atmosphere. 


(2) *Sampling site selection method.* Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site. No traverse site selection method is needed for process vents smaller than 0.33 foot (0.10 meter) in nominal inside diameter. 


(c) *Applicability assessment requirement.* The organic HAP concentrations, volumetric flow rates, heating values, organic HAP emission rates, TRE index values, and engineering assessment control applicability assessment requirements are to be determined during maximum representative operating conditions for the process, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, or unless the Administrator specifies or approves alternate operating conditions. Operations during periods of malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of an applicability test.


(d) *Exceptions.* The owner or operator is not required to conduct a test that will cause any of the following situations: 


(1) Causing damage to equipment; 


(2) Necessitating that the owner or operator make a product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or 


(3) Necessitating that the owner or operator make a product in excess of demand. 


(e) *Organic HAP concentration.* The organic HAP concentrations, used for TRE index value calculations in paragraph (j) of this section, shall be determined using the procedures specified in either § 63.1414(a) or by using the engineering assessment procedures in paragraph (k) of this section. 


(f) *Volumetric flow rate.* The volumetric flow rate shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1414(a), or by using the engineering assessment procedures in paragraph (k) of this section. 


(g) *Heating value.* The net heating value shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, or by using the engineering assessment procedures in paragraph (k) of this section. 


(1) The net heating value of the continuous process vent shall be calculated using Equation 1:


(2) The molar composition of the process vent (D_j_) shall be determined using the methods specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section: 


(i) The methods specified in § 63.1414(a) to measure the concentration of each organic compound. 


(ii) American Society for Testing and Materials D1946-90 (Reapproved 1994) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) to measure the concentration of carbon monoxide and hydrogen.


(iii) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the moisture content of the stack gas. 


(h) *Organic HAP emission rate.* The emission rate of organic HAP in the continuous process vent, as required by the TRE index value equation specified in paragraph (j) of this section, shall be calculated using Equation 2:


(i) [Reserved] 


(j) *TRE index value.* The owner or operator shall calculate the TRE index value of the continuous process vent using the equations and procedures in this paragraph, as applicable, and shall maintain records specified in § 63.1416(f). 


(1) *TRE index value equation.* The equation for calculating the TRE index value is Equation 3:


(2) *TRE index calculation.* The owner or operator of a continuous process vent shall calculate the TRE index value by using the equation and appropriate coefficients in Table 6 of this subpart. The owner or operator shall calculate the TRE index value for each control device scenario (i.e., flare, thermal incinerator with 0 percent recovery, thermal incinerator with 70 percent recovery). The lowest TRE index value is to be compared to the applicability criteria specified in § 63.1405(a). 


(k) *Engineering assessment.* For purposes of TRE index value determinations, engineering assessments may be used to determine continuous process vent flow rate, net heating value, and total organic HAP emission rate for the representative operating condition expected to yield the lowest TRE index value. Engineering assessments shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (k)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) If the TRE index value calculated using engineering assessment is greater than 4.0, the owner or operator is not required to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section. 


(2) If the TRE index value calculated using engineering assessment is less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator is required either to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section for control applicability assessment or comply with the control requirements specified in § 63.1405(a).


(3) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following examples: 


(i) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices. 


(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions. 


(iii) Maximum volumetric flow rate, organic HAP emission rate, organic HAP concentration, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the continuous process vent. 


(iv) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to, the following: 


(A) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations; 


(B) Estimation of maximum volumetric flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities; 


(C) Estimation of organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions; and


(D) Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the stream concentration of each organic compound. 



---

[N] [65 FR 3290, Jan. 20, 2000, as amended at 79 FR 60931, Oct. 8, 2014; 83 FR 51853, Oct. 15, 2018]




