# § 60.5385b   What GHG and VOC standards apply to reciprocating compressor affected facilities?

Each reciprocating compressor affected facility must comply with the GHG and VOC standards, using volumetric flow rate as a surrogate, in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, or the GHG and VOC standards in paragraph (d) of this section. You must also comply with the requirements in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section.


(a) The volumetric flow rate of each cylinder, measured in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, must not exceed 2 scfm per individual cylinder. If the individual cylinders are manifolded to a single open-ended vent line, the volumetric flow rate must not exceed the sum of the individual cylinders multiplied by 2 scfm. You must conduct measurements of the volumetric flow rate in accordance with the schedule specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and determine the volumetric flow rate per cylinder in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. If the volumetric flow rate, measured in accordance with paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, for a cylinder exceeds 2 scfm per cylinder (or a combined volumetric flow rate greater than the number of compression cylinders multiplied by 2 scfm), the rod packing or packings must be repaired or replaced as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(1) You must conduct your first volumetric flow rate measurements from your reciprocating compressor rod packing vent on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024, or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after last rod packing replacement, or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, whichever date is later.


(2) You must conduct subsequent volumetric flow rate measurements from your reciprocating compressor rod packing vent on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the previous measurement which demonstrates compliance with the applicable volumetric flow rate of 2 scfm per cylinder (or a combined volumetric flow rate greater than the number of compression cylinders multiplied by 2 scfm), or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after last rod packing replacement, whichever date is later.


(3) The rod packing must be repaired or replaced within 90 calendar days after the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that exceeded 2 scfm per cylinder. You must conduct follow-up volumetric flow rate measurements from compressor vents using the methods specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section within 15 days after the repair (or rod packing replacement) to document that the rate has been reduced to less than 2 scfm per cylinder. Delay of repair will be allowed if the conditions in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section are met.


(i) If the repair (or rod packing replacement) is technically infeasible, would require a vent blowdown, a compressor station shutdown, or would be unsafe to repair during operation of the unit, the repair (or rod packing replacement) must be completed during the next scheduled compressor station shutdown for maintenance, after a scheduled vent blowdown, or within 2 years of the date of the volumetric emissions measurement that exceeds the applicable required flow rate per cylinder, whichever is earliest. A vent blowdown is the opening of one or more blowdown valves to depressurize major production and processing equipment, other than a storage vessel.


(ii) If the repair requires replacement of the rod packing or a part, but the replacement cannot be acquired and installed within the repair timelines specified under this section due to the condition specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the repair must be completed in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(B) of this section and documented in accordance with § 60.5420b(c)(5)(viii) through (x).


(A) Rod packing or part supplies had been sufficiently stocked but are depleted at the time of the required repair.


(B) The required rod packing or part replacement must be ordered no later than 10 calendar days after the reciprocating compressor is added to the delay of repair list due to parts unavailability. The repair must be completed as soon as practicable, but no later than 30 calendar days after receipt of the replacement rod packing or part, unless the repair requires a compressor station shutdown. If the repair requires a compressor station shutdown, the repair must be completed in accordance with the timeframe specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.


(b) You must determine the volumetric flow rate per cylinder from your reciprocating compressor as specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) For reciprocating compressor rod packing equipped with an open-ended vent line on compressors in operating or standby pressurized mode, determine the volumetric flow rate of the rod packing using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Determine the volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from the open-ended vent line using a high-volume sampler according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(c).


(ii) Determine the volumetric flow rate at standard conditions from the open-ended vent line using a temporary or permanent meter, according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b).


(iii) Any of the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a) to screen for leaks and emissions. For the purposes of this paragraph, emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to any of the methods in § 60.5386b(a). If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section to determine the volumetric flow rate per cylinder. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 60.5386b(a), then you may assume that the volumetric flow rate is zero.


(2) For reciprocating compressor rod packing not equipped with an open-ended vent line on compressors in operating or standby pressurized mode, you must determine the volumetric flow rate of the rod packing using the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must use the methods described in § 60.5386b(a) to conduct leak detection of emissions from the rod packing case into an open distance piece, or, for compressors with a closed distance piece, you must conduct annual leak detection of emissions from the rod packing vent, distance piece vent, compressor crank case breather cap, or other vent emitting gas from the rod packing.


(ii) You must measure emissions found in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section using a meter or high-volume sampler according to methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b) or (c).


(c) For conducting measurements on manifolded groups of reciprocating compressor affected facilities, you must determine the volumetric flow rate from reciprocating compressor rod packing vent as specified in paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Measure at a single point in the manifold downstream of all compressor vent inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor emission sources.


(2) Determine the volumetric flow rate per cylinder at standard conditions from the common stack using one of the methods specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) A temporary or permanent flow meter according to the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(b).


(ii) A high-volume sampler according to methods set forth § 60.5386b(c).


(iii) An alternative method, as set forth in § 60.5386b(d).


(iv) Any of the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a) to screen for emissions. For the purposes of this paragraph, emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected when using any of the methods in § 60.5386b(a). If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 60.5386b(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to determine the volumetric flow rate per cylinder. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 60.5386b(a), then you may assume that the volumetric flow rate is zero.


(d) As an alternative to complying with the GHG and VOC standards in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, owners or operators can meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(1) Collect the methane and VOC emissions from your reciprocating compressor rod packing using a rod packing emissions collection system that is operated to route the rod packing emissions to a process. In order to comply with this option, you must equip the reciprocating compressor with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c).


(2) Reduce methane and VOC emissions from each rod packing emissions collection system by using a control device that reduces methane and VOC emissions by 95.0 percent. In order to comply with this option, you must equip the reciprocating compressor with a cover that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(b). The cover must be connected through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411b(a) and (c) and the closed vent system must be routed to a control device that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412b.


(3) As an alternative to conducting the required volumetric flow rate measurements under paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator can choose to comply by replacing the rod packing on or before 8,760 hours of operation after startup, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after May 7, 2024, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the previous flow rate measurement, or on or before 8,760 hours of operation after the date of the most recent compressor rod packing replacement, whichever date is later.


(e) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to reciprocating compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5410b(e).


(f) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards that apply to reciprocating compressor affected facilities as required by § 60.5415b(g).


(g) You must perform the reporting requirements as specified in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (6), and (11) through (13), as applicable; and the recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(5) and (8) through (13), as applicable.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62891, Aug. 1, 2024]




