# § 416.26   Qualifying for an agreement.

(a) *Deemed compliance.* CMS may deem an ASC to be in compliance with any or all of the conditions set forth in subpart C of this part if— 


(1) The ASC is accredited by a national accrediting body, or licensed by a State agency, that CMS determines provides reasonable assurance that the conditions are met; 


(2) In the case of deemed status through accreditation by a national accrediting body, where State law requires licensure, the ASC complies with State licensure requirements; and 


(3) The ASC authorizes the release to CMS, of the findings of the accreditation survey. 


(b) *Survey of ASCs.* (1) Unless CMS deems the ASC to be in compliance with the conditions set forth in subpart C of this part, the State survey agency must survey the facility to ascertain compliance with those conditions, and report its findings to CMS. 


(2) CMS surveys deemed ASCs on a sample basis as part of CMS's validation process. 


(c) *Acceptance of the ASC as qualified to furnish ambulatory surgical services.* If CMS determines, after reviewing the survey agency recommendation and other evidence relating to the qualification of the ASC, that the facility meets the requirements of this part, it sends to the ASC— 


(1) Written notice of the determination; and 


(2) Two copies of the ASC agreement. 


(d) *Filing of agreement by the ASC.* If the ASC wishes to participate in the program, it must— 


(1) Have both copies of the ASC agreement signed by its authorized representative; and 


(2) File them with CMS. 


(e) *Acceptance by CMS.* If CMS accepts the agreement filed by the ASC, returns to the ASC one copy of the agreement, with a notice of acceptance specifying the effective date. 


(f) *Appeal rights.* If CMS refuses to enter into an agreement or if CMS terminates an agreement, the ASC is entitled to a hearing in accordance with part 498 of this chapter.



---

[N] [56 FR 8843, Mar. 1, 1991]




