# ยง 240.9b-1   Options disclosure document.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions shall apply for the purpose of this rule.


(1) *Options market* means a national securities exchange, an automated quotation system of a registered securities association or a foreign securities exchange on which standardized options are traded.


(2) *Options class* means all options contracts covering the same underlying instrument.


(3) *Options disclosure document* means a document, including all amendments and supplements thereto, prepared by one or more options markets which has been filed with the Commission or distributed in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. *Definitive options disclosure document* or *document* means an options disclosure document furnished to customers in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. 


(4) *Standardized options* are options contracts trading on a national securities exchange, an automated quotation system of a registered securities association, or a foreign securities exchange which relate to options classes the terms of which are limited to specific expiration dates and exercise prices, or such other securities as the Commission may, by order, designate.


(b)(1) Five preliminary copies of an options disclosure document containing the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be filed with the Commission by an options market at least 60 days prior to the date definitive copies are furnished to customers, unless the commission determines otherwise having due regard to the adequacy of the information disclosed and the public interest and protection of investors. Five copies of the definitive options disclosure document shall be filed with the Commission not later than the date the options disclosure document is furnished to customers. Notwithstanding the above, the use of an options disclosure document shall not be permitted unless the options class to which such document relates is the subject of an effective registration statement on Form S-20 under the Securities Act of 1933, or is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*).


(2)(i) If the information contained in the options disclosure document becomes or will become materially inaccurate or incomplete or there is or will be an omission of material information necessary to make the options disclosure document not misleading, the options market shall amend or supplement its options disclosure document by filing five copies of an amendment or supplement to such options disclosure document with the Commission at least 30 days prior to the date definitive copies are furnished to customers, unless the Commission determines otherwise having due regard to the adequacy of the information disclosed and the public interest and protection of investors. Five copies of the definitive options disclosure document, as amended or supplemented, shall be filed with the Commission not later than the date the amendment or supplement, or the amended options disclosure document, is furnished to customers. 


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, an options market may distribute an amendment or supplement to an options disclosure document prior to such 30 day period if it determines, in good faith, that such delivery is necessary to ensure timely and accurate disclosure with respect to one or more of the options classes covered by the document. Five copies of any amendment or supplement distributed pursuant to this paragraph shall be filed with the Commission at the time of distribution. In that instance, if the Commission determines, having given due regard to the adequacy of the information disclosed and the public interest and the protection of investors, it may require refiling of the amendment pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. 


(c) *Information required in an options disclosure document.* An options disclosure document shall contain the following information, unless otherwise provided by the Commission, with respect to the options classes covered by the document: 


(1) A glossary of terms; 


(2) A discussion of the mechanics of exercising the options; 


(3) A discussion of the risks of being a holder or writer of the options; 


(4) The identification of the market or markets in which the options are traded; 


(5) A brief reference to the transaction costs, margin requirements and tax consequences of options trading; 


(6) The identification of the issuer of the options; 


(7) A general identification of the type of instrument or instruments underlying the options class or classes covered by the document; 


(8) If the options are not exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*), the registration of the options on form S-20 (17 CFR 239.20) and the availability of the prospectus and the information in part II of the registration statement; and 


(9) Such other information as the Commission may specify. 


(d) *Broker-dealer obligations.* (1) No broker or dealer shall accept an order from a customer to purchase or sell an option contract relating to an options class that is the subject of a definitive options disclosure document, or approve the customer's account for the trading of such option, unless the broker or dealer furnishes or has furnished to the customer a copy of the definitive options disclosure document. 


(2) If a definitive options disclosure document relating to an options class is amended or supplemented, each broker and dealer shall promptly send a copy of the definitive amendment or supplement or a copy of the definitive options disclosure document as amended to each customer whose account is approved for trading the options class or classes to which the amendment or supplement relates.



---

[N] [47 FR 41956, Sept. 23, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 14982, Apr. 22, 1986; 65 FR 64139, Oct. 26, 2000; 68 FR 192, Jan. 2, 2003] 








