# § 107.710   Requirement to finance smaller enterprises.

Your Portfolio must include Financings to Smaller Enterprises.


(a) *Definition of Smaller Enterprise.* A Smaller Enterprise means any small business concern that: 


(1) Both together with its Affiliates, and by itself, meets the size standard of § 121.201 of this chapter at the time of Financing for the industry in which it is then primarily engaged; or 


(2) Together with its affiliates has a net worth of not more than $6 million and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding any carry-over losses) for the preceding two years no greater than $2 million. If the applicant is not required by law to pay Federal income taxes at the enterprise level, but is required to pass income through to its shareholders, partners, beneficiaries, or other equitable owners, the applicant's “net income after Federal income taxes” will be its net income reduced by an amount computed as follows: 


(i) If the applicant is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, multiply its net income by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if it were a taxable corporation. 


(ii) Multiply the applicant's net income, less any deduction for State and local income taxes calculated under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the applicant were a taxable corporation. 


(iii) Add the results obtained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(b) *Smaller Enterprise Financings.* At the close or each of your fiscal years, and at the time of any application to draw Leverage, you must satisfy the Smaller Enterprise financing requirement in this paragraph (b) that applies to you.


(1) If you were licensed after February 17, 2009, at least 25 percent (in dollars) of your Financings must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.


(2) If you were licensed on or before February 17, 2009, and you have received no SBA Leverage commitment issued after February 17, 2009, at least 20 percent (in dollars) of your Financings, excluding Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million, must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises. In addition, 100 percent of all Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million (including aggregate Leverage over $90 million issued by two or more Licensees under Common Control) must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.


(3) If you were licensed on or before February 17, 2009, and you have received an SBA Leverage commitment after February 17, 2009:


(i) For all Financings made after the date of the first Leverage commitment issued after February 17, 2009, at least 25 percent (in dollars) of your Financings must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises, and


(ii) For all Financings made before February 17, 2009, at least 20 percent (in dollars) of your Financings, excluding Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million, must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises. In addition, 100 percent of all Financings made in whole or in part with Leverage in excess of $90 million (including aggregate Leverage over $90 million issued by two or more Licensees under Common Control) must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.


(c) *Special requirement for certain leveraged Licensees.* (1) This paragraph (c) applies if you were licensed on or before September 30, 1996, and you issued Leverage after that date, and you have Regulatory Capital of:


(i) Less than $10,000,000 if such Leverage included Participating Securities; or


(ii) Less than $5,000,000 if such Leverage was Debentures only.


(2) At the close of each of your fiscal years, at least 50 percent of the total dollar amount of the Financings you extended after September 30, 1996 must have been invested in Smaller Enterprises.


(d) Financing a change of ownership which results in the creation of a Smaller Enterprises. The Financing of a change of ownership under § 107.750 which results in the creation of a Smaller Enterprise qualifies as a Smaller Enterprise Financing.


(e) *Non-compliance with this section.* If you have not reached the required percentage of Smaller Enterprise Financings at the end of any fiscal year, then you must be in compliance by the end of the following fiscal year. However, you will not be eligible for additional Leverage until you reach the required percentage (*see* § 107.1120(c) and (g)).



---

[N] [62 FR 11760, Mar. 13, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 5866, Feb. 5, 1998; 64 FR 70995, Dec. 20, 1999; 66 FR 30647, June 7, 2001; 74 FR 33915, July 14, 2009]




