# § 40.111   When and how must a laboratory disclose statistical summaries and other information it maintains?

(a) As a laboratory, you must transmit an aggregate statistical summary, by employer, of the data listed in appendix D of this part with respect to each specimen type for which you conduct tests to the employer on a semi-annual basis. 


(1) The summary must not reveal the identity of any employee. 


(2) In order to avoid sending data from which it is likely that information about an employee's test result can be readily inferred, you must not send a summary if the employer has fewer than five aggregate tests results. 


(3) The summary must be sent by January 20 of each year for July 1 through December 31 of the prior year. 


(4) The summary must also be sent by July 20 of each year for January 1 through June 30 of the current year. 


(b) When the employer requests a summary in response to an inspection, audit, or review by a DOT agency, you must provide it unless the employer had fewer than five aggregate test results. In that case, you must send the employer a report indicating that not enough testing was conducted to warrant a summary. You may transmit the summary or report by hard copy, fax, or other electronic means. 


(c) You must also release information to appropriate parties as provided in §§ 40.329 and 40.331. 


(d) As a laboratory, you must transmit an aggregate statistical summary listed in appendix E of this part for each specimen type for which you conduct testing to DOT on a semi-annual basis. The summary must be sent by January 31 of each year for July 1 through December 31 of the prior year. It must be sent by July 31 of each year for January 1 through June 30 of the current year. If you withdraw or are removed from NLCP's laboratory certification during a reporting period, you must provide the aggregate statistical summary to the DOT-regulated employers and to ODAPC for the last reporting period in which you conducted DOT-regulated testing.



---

[N] [65 FR 79526, Dec. 19, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 35971, June 25, 2008; 88 FR 27645, May 2, 2023]








