# § 52.378   Control strategy: PM

(a) Approval—On June 23, 2005, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection submitted a request to redesignate the City of New Haven PM_10_ nonattainment area to attainment for PM_10_. The redesignation request and the initial ten-year maintenance plan (2006-2015) meet the redesignation requirements in sections 107(d)(3)(E) and 175A of the Act as amended in 1990, respectively.


(b) Approval—On June 23, 2005, the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (CT DEP) submitted a request to establish a Limited Maintenance Plan (LMP) for the City of New Haven PM_10_ attainment area for the area's initial ten-year maintenance plan (2006-2015). The State of Connecticut has committed to: maintain a PM_10_ monitoring network in the New Haven PM_10_ maintenance area; implement contingency measures in the event of an exceedance of the PM_10_ National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) in the maintenance area; coordinate with EPA in the event the PM_10_ design value in the maintenance area exceeds 98 µgm/m
3 for the 24-hour PM_10_ NAAQS or 40 µgm/m
3 for the annual PM_10_ NAAQS; and to verify the validity of the data and, if warranted based on the data review, develop a full maintenance plan for the maintenance area. The LMP satisfies all applicable requirements of section 175A of the Clean Air Act. Approval of the LMP is conditioned on maintaining levels of ambient PM_10_ below a PM_10_ design value criteria of 98 µgm/m
3 for the 24-hour PM_10_ NAAQS and 40 µgm/m
3 for the annual PM_10_ NAAQS. For the Criscuolo Park site, Connecticut still qualifies for the LMP option if, based on five years of site data, the average design values (ADVs) of the continuous PM_10_ monitor are less than the site-specific critical design value (CDV). If the LMP criteria are no longer satisfied, Connecticut must develop a full maintenance plan to meet Clean Air Act requirements.



---

[N] [70 FR 59663, Oct. 13, 2005]




