# § 721.11704   1,3-Benzenedicarboxylic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,2-ethanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol, hexanedioic acid, 1,6-hexanediol and 1,3-isobenzofurandione, N-[[1,3,3-trimethyl-5-[[[2-[(1-oxo-2- propen-1-yl)oxy]ethoxy]carbonyl]amino]cyclohexyl]methyl]carbamate N-[3,3,5-trimethyl-5-[[[[2-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethoxy]carbonyl]amino]methyl]cyclohexyl]carbamate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-benzenedicarboxylic acid, polymer with 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,2-ethanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol, hexanedioic acid, 1,6-hexanediol and 1,3-isobenzofurandione, N-[[1,3,3-trimethyl-5-[[[2-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethoxy]carbonyl]amino]cyclohexyl]methyl]carbamate N-[3,3,5-trimethyl-5-[[[[2-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]ethoxy]carbonyl]amino]methyl]cyclohexyl]carbamate (PMN P-21-10; CAS No. 2460376-09-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation, eye irritation, skin sensitization, and respiratory sensitization. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [88 FR 13701, Mar. 6, 2023]






