# ยง 63.9784   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source at a refractory products manufacturing facility. 


(b) The existing affected sources are shape dryers, curing ovens, and kilns that are used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP; shape preheaters, pitch working tanks, defumers, and coking ovens that are used to produce pitch-impregnated refractory products; kilns that are used to manufacture chromium refractory products; and kilns that are used to manufacture clay refractory products. 


(c) The new or reconstructed affected sources are shape dryers, curing ovens, and kilns that are used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP; shape preheaters, pitch working tanks, defumers, and coking ovens used to produce pitch-impregnated refractory products; kilns that are used to manufacture chromium refractory products; and kilns that are used to manufacture clay refractory products. 


(d) Shape dryers, curing ovens, kilns, coking ovens, defumers, shape preheaters, and pitch working tanks that are research and development (R&D) process units are not subject to the requirements of this subpart. (See definition of *research and development process unit* in ยง 63.9824). 


(e) A source is a new affected source if you began construction of the affected source after June 20, 2002, and you met the applicability criteria at the time you began construction. 


(f) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2. 


(g) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed. 




