# § 621.4   Issues, loans, and donations for scouting.

(a) *General.* This section provides information relative to issue, loan or donation of Government property to the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of America. 


(b) *Guidance.* (1) Issues are made under the provisions of the loan agreement and reimbursement is made for adjusted shortages and damages. 


(2) Provisions for donations of surplus property to Scout organizations, including lists of classes of donable property, are contained in chapter III, part 3, Defense Disposal Manual (DOD 4160.21M). 


(3) The loan of certain Army, Navy, Air Force and DLA equipment and the provision of transportation and other services for Jamborees is initially provided for by Pub. L. 92-249. Implementation on a current basis is made in DOD Directive 7420.1. Army implementation is provided as follows: 


(i) Army stock fund in paragraph 2-6b(4), AR 37-111, Working Capital Fund-Army Stock Fund Uniform Policies, Principles and Procedures Governing Army Stock Fund Operations. 


(ii) Non-stock fund in paragraph 2-18, AR 310-34, Equipment Authorization Policies and Criteria, and Common Table of Allowances. 


(c) *Procedure.* Loan agreements are mutually developed preceding the actual lending of the equipment. Paragraph 1-16, AR 735-5, General Principles, Policies and Basic Procedures, is used as the guide for preparation of loan agreements. Authority for commanders to participate in World and National Jamborees is included in paragraph (d) of this section; Procedure for Loan of Equipment and Providing of Transportation and Other Services to the Boy Scouts of America for World and National Jamborees is included in paragraph (j) of this section; and sample loan agreement to be executed by area commanders is included as figure 7-5. 


(d) *World and National Boy Scout Jamborees.* The Act of 10 March 1972 (Pub. L. 92-249; 86 Stat. 62) and (86 Stat. 63) authorized the Secretary of Defense to lend equipment and provide transportation and other services to the Boy Scouts of America in support of World and National Jamborees. The Secretary of Defense has delegated his authority and responsibility for the support of Jamborees to the Secretary of the Army. The Commander DARCOM ATTN: DRCMM-SP has been assigned to monitor the program for the Secretary of the Army. 


(e) *Group travel and visits.* Many Scouts and Leaders will travel in groups and their itinerary will provide for visits to places of interest in CONUS en route to and from Jamborees. Such group travel may begin in June and extend into September and October of the Jamboree year. In keeping with Department of the Army policies, commanders of Army installations may extend an invitation to and honor requests from Scout groups enroute to and from the Jamboree to visit and encamp at their installation. 


(f) *Commissary and post privileges.* Installation commanders are authorized to provide commissary and post exchange privileges to Scout groups en route to and from the Jamboree for food items such as bread, meat, and dairy products. These privileges will be extended only to Scout groups which are en route to or from the Jamboree and who are encamped or quartered at the installation or the Jamboree site. Commissary and post exchange privileges extended to Scout groups while encamped at the Jamboree site for supply and food items will only be honored upon-application by officials of the Boy Scouts of America to supplement supplies and rations not considered adequate for American Scouts or Scouters. 


(g) *Arrangements.* Regional Scout Executives have been informed by the National Headquarters of the contents of this subchapter and that arrangements pursuant to this subchapter must be made in advance directly with the installation commanders. However, commanders will consider factors of extenuation or emergency which may preclude advance arrangements. 


(h) *Hospitalization.* Boy Scouts and Scout Leaders attending Jamborees are considered designees of the Secretary of the Army for the purpose of receiving medical care at US Army Medical facilities. The reciprocal rate will not be charged. Subsistence charges will be at the rate of $1.80 per day for hospitalized patients, but will not be collected locally. Each Boy Scout and Leader participating in Jamborees and hospitalized in Army medical treatment facilities will be reported to The Surgeon General, ATTN: DASG-SGRE-SSC, Department of the Army, Washington, DC 20314, on DD Form 7 (Report of Treatment Furnished Pay Patients; Hospitalization Furnished (part A)). No local collections are authorized. 


(i) *Service coordination.* (1) The Departments of the Navy and the Air Force and the Defense Logistics Agency will assist the Department of the Army in providing necessary equipment, transportation, and services in support of the Boy Scouts of America attending Jamborees. The Secretary of the Army or his designee will maintain liaison, as appropriate, with such agencies to avoid duplication of effort. 


(2) Other departments (agencies) of the Federal Government are authorized under such regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary (Administrator) thereof, to provide to the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), equipment and other services, under the same conditions and restrictions prescribed for the Secretary of Defense. 


(j) *Procedure for loan of equipment and providing of transportation and other services to the Boy Scouts of America for world and national jamborees. Preliminary actions.* (1) In accordance with the provisions of Pub. L. 92-249, H.R. 11738, 10 March 1972, and Secretary of Defense Memo of 17 May 1972, Subject: Loan of Equipment and Providing of Transportation and Other Services to the Boy Scouts of America for Boy Scout Jamborees; Memo of 23 January 1973, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees; and Memo of 19 August 1974, Subject: Military Transportation Support for Boy Scout Jamborees, the DOD is authorized to lend certain items and provide transportation and certain other services to such Jamborees. Prior to the loan of property and providing transportation and other services, an appropriate agreement will be executed between the United States of America and the activity to be supported. A bond (fig. 7-6), in an amount specified by the Commander, DARCOM, based on statute taken by the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, Major Army Command (MACOM), and held until termination of the encampment and final settelment is made for each Jamboree. 


(2) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM designated, on behalf of the Commander, DARCOM, representing the Secretary of Defense will enter into legal arrangements with the Boy Scouts of America for the loan of equipment and the providing of transportation and certain other services for Boy Scouts World and National Jamborees. National Jamborees include Jamborees conducted by and within the United States and also those conducted by and within foreign nations. 


(3) The Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM, will appoint a Property Book Officer who will maintain separate stock records in order to provide for a single final billing to the supported activity (Boy Scouts of America) for items consumed, lost, damaged or destroyed. The Department of the Army will not be billed for items obtained from other than Army sources, except medical supply losses. Bills for medical supply losses will be submitted to the US Army Area Surgeon for payment. He will establish liaison with the activity to be supported. The property book account will be established in accordance with section II, chapter 2, AR 710-2. 


(4) The Commander-in-Chief, MACOM, will task the Army Area Surgeon for Medical Supply Support to the Jamborees. Each Surgeon designated should appoint an accountable officer and furnish the name, location, and routing identifier of a project office wherein medical supply problems can be resolved.


(5) The Property Book Officer is authorized direct communication with the source of supply, other military department liaison personnel and DARCOM ICP's to resolve routine supply problems. 


(k) *Preparing bills of material.* (1) The activity (BSA) will submit a list of equipment and supplies desired to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM. This list will be edited during and subsequent to preliminary conferences with representatives of the activity and furnished to Commander, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM-SP.


(2) HQ, DARCOM will convert the informal list to a tentative Bill of Material and will furnish the respective Commodity Command that part of the Bill of Material for their items of logistical responsibility. A suggested format for the Bill of Material is included as figure 7-1. Local reproduction is authorized. Copies of the entire tentative Bill of Material will also be furnished to each of the military departments authorized to participate in the support of the encampments. The Bill of Material forwarded to the Commander-in-Chief/Commander, MACOM will be screened to determine inhouse availability prior to placing requisitions on CONUS supply points.


(3) At such time as item availability information is on hand and the sources to be used are determined (paragraph (m) of this section, a Bill of Material (figure 7-1) will be prepared by HQ, DARCOM, and forwarded to the Commander-in-chief/Commander, MACOM.


(4) The Bill of Material will list, by commodity command (military department), all items desired, identified by National Stock Number (NSN) description, quantity desired and required delivery date. The NSN will provide identification of the items required. Items will be identified by the Property Book Officer to the responsible commodity command or military department as indicated below: 


(l) *Establish property transaction records.* (1) A Property Transaction Record reflecting complete information about each item loaned to the activity will be established and maintained by the Property Book Officer (figure 7-2) and the respective commodity command military department (figure 7-3). Suggested formats for the Property Transaction Records are found in figures 7-2, 7-3, and 7-4, Local reproduction is authorized.


(2) The Property Book Officer will also establish and maintain separate Property Transaction Records for items obtained from supply sources other than Army commodity commands, *i.e.*, other Army installations, Department of the Navy, Department of the Air Force (figure 7-4).


(3) Each entry on the Property Transaction Record will be supported by appropriate documentation (commodity command: copies of shipping documents, copies of return documents and copies of surveillance inspection report—Property Book Officer: Requisition voucher files and hand receipt cards). This is particularly important for reconciliation purposes in order that all property received from each source will be returned to that source upon termination of each encampment.


(m) *Locating and obtaining equipment and supplies.* (1) The respective commodity commands (military departments) will screen the tentative Bill of Material (paragraph (k)(2) of this section) and determine availability and source of supply identified by Routing Identifier Code. They will advise HQ, DARCOM, ATTN: DRCMM—SP of availability, appropriate substitute items when the requested items are not available in sufficient quantity, and the source of supply for requisitioning purposes.


(2) Concurrently, the Bill of Material will be screened within the MACOM to determine those items that can be obtained from assets available in the command.


(3) The Property Book Officer will requisition equipment and supplies from the source of supply as indicated by Commander, DARCOM in accordance with AR 725-50 or other separately furnished instructions. The requisition number, quantity requisitioned, stock number and source of supply will be entered in the Property Transaction Record. Requisitions will cite the appropriate project code assigned and appropriate activity address code on all requisitions submitted. Project codes will be assigned by Commander, Logistic Systems Support Activity, ATTN: DRXLS-LCC, Chambersburg, PA, 17201 and distributed by message to all interested addressees.


(4) Loan of General Services Administration (GSA) General Supply Fund Material—The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended, authorizes the Administrator, GSA to loan GSA General Supply Fund Material to the Department of Defense and other federal agencies. Loan shall be made to the extent that items are readily available and that such loans will not jeopardize the GSA stock inventory. The loan of GSA General Supply Fund Material shall normally be limited to 90 Calendar days. Requisitions for GSA material should be submitted to the nearest GSA Regional Office by the CINC/CDR MACOM.


(5) Formal accountability for all items shipped to the site of the activity will be retained by the appropriate accountable activity. Property and financial accounting will be in accordance with respective military department regulations governing loans. 


(6) The shipping depot or other source will furnish a copy of the shipping document to the respective commodity command (military department) where the quantity charged, date shipped, condition of the property and total value will be posted to the Property Transaction Record. 


(7) Upon receipt of the advance copy of the shipping document, the commodity command (military department) will post information to his Transaction Record, by source as in paragraph (l)(1) of this section. 


(8) When the shipment is received, the Property Book Officer will inspect the property. A narrative statement of condition will be prepared if condition of the property is other than that indicated on the shipping document and referenced to the condition entry on the Property Transaction Record. The source of supply, as appropriate, will be immediately notified of overages or shortages and verified in condition, as provided in chapter 8, AR 735-11. The Property Book Officer will enter on the shipping document the quantity actually received when it differs from quantity shown as shipped and will post the quantities received to the property book record. 


(9) Discrepancies between the quantity shipped by the depot and that received by the Property Book Officer and variance in condition will be reconciled as rapidly as possible and appropriate records will be brought into agreement. When shortage or damage is not attributable to the carrier, the Property Book Officer will immediately contact the responsible source of supply, furnishing the stock number and document number involved, together with an explanation of the discrepancy. Reconciliation is particularly important in order to ensure a common point of departure in determining charges to be assessed upon termination of the activity. Replacement shipments, when required, will be covered by appropriate shipping documents. 


(10) Special Instructions for Defense Logistics Agency, Clothing and Textile Items. (See DSAR 4140.27/AR 700-49). 


(n) *Transportation.* (1) Transportation of equipment and supplies—The responsibility of coordinating movement of equipment and supplies placed on loan to the Boy Scouts of America during National and World Jamborees is delegated to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-ST. 


(2) All requisitions for items in question, will cite the appropriate project code and will be shipped by commercial bill of lading on a collect basis to all National Jamborees and World Jamborees held in the United States. 


(3) Shipments to Boy Scout contingents at World Jamborees in foreign countries will be by Government bills of lading, unless otherwise specified by the Boy Scouts of America. 


(4) All shipments directed to Boy Scout Jamborees will be routed by the most feasible means as determined by the shipper. Shipments will be consolidated to the maximum extent possible to assure the lowest charges available to the Boy Scouts of America. 


(5) Separate shipping instructions will be provided for each Jamboree to assure that correct consignee and railhead addresses are furnished. 


(6) Movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials living in the United States of America to a Jamboree within the United States of America or to a Jamboree in an oversea area shall be the responsibility of the Boy Scouts of America or the individuals concerned. 


(7) No authority exists under Pub. L. 92-249 for the movement of Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials via military capabilities other than those of the Military Airlift Command or the Military Sealift Command. 


(o) *Transportation by vessels of the Military Sealift Command (MSC).* (1) The MSC does not operate any ships suitable for carriage of passengers on transoceanic routes. Although pertinent directives and Pub. L. 92-249 authorize the movement of Boy Scouts on Military Vessels, the MSC has no capability to provide such transportation. 


(2) The MSC is an industrial-funded organization and charges the military service for sealift services provided in accordance with established rates. The host command will be responsible to compensate the MSC for any equipment or material moved on MSC ships. The limitations inherent in Pub. L. 92-249 stipulate that transportation support provided will be at no cost to the Government. Under these directions, Boy Scout equipment or materiel is not authorized movement on a space available basis without prior approval of the Secretary of Defense. Such approval is not anticipated. 


(3) All billings for transportation provided by MSC will be forwarded to the appropriate Commander-in-Chief/Commander of the support major Army command (MACOM). Reimbursement will be requested by the MACOM Commander from the Boy Scouts of America. 


(p) *Transportation of oversea based scouts, scouters, and other authorized personnel by military airlift to national or international jamborees.* (1) Space required reimbursable transportation by Military Airlift Command (MAC) airlift over established MAC channels is authorized from points outside the Continental United States (OCONUS) to aerial ports within CONUS, or to other oversea locations and return. Such transportation will be provided only to the extent that it does not interfere with the requirements of military operations, and only to those Boy Scouts, Scouters, and officials residing overseas and certified by the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) as representing the BSA at the Jamboree. Certification by the BSA will be in the form of a letter identifying each such individual as their authorized representative at the Jamboree. This letter of authorization must be presented to the sponsoring overseas command. 


(2) Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials and their equipment will be moved after all space-required traffic, but before any space-available traffic. 


(3) Each passenger is authorized the normal accompanying free baggage allowance of 66 pounds while traveling on MAC aircraft. It is not contemplated that any excess baggage allowance will be authorized. 


(4) Transportation of Boy Scouts, Scouters, officials, and their equipment provided by MAC controlled aircraft will be reimbursed at the common user tariff rates assessed U.S. Government Traffic, as contained in AFR 76-11. 


(5) On the basis of letters of authorization issued by the BSA, the BSA will monitor services provided by the Department of Defense. One copy of each BSA letter of authorization will be forwarded to the Commander, US Army Materiel Development and Readiness Command, ATTN: DRCMM-SP, 5001 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22333, for planning purposes. This letter of authorization should specify whether one way or round trip transportation is requested. 


(6) DACROM responsibilities include the following: 


(i) Compiling a passenger forecast to be submitted to MAC in accordance with AR 59-8/OPNAVINST 4630.18C/AFR 76-38/MCO 4630.6B. 


(ii) Providing Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) an information copy of the passenger forecast. 


(iii) Submitting all passenger requirements for one way and round trip transportation originating overseas to the appropriate overseas command. 


(7) The responsibilities of the sponsoring overseas command include: 


(i) Verifying that Scout passengers are officially authorized representatives of BSA in accordance with paragraph (p)(1) of this section. 


(ii) Making all necessary passenger reservations with MAC, for transportation originating overseas, in accordance with AR 55-6/AFR 76-5/OPNAVINST 4630.23/MCO P4630.11. The oversea command will submit CONUS outbound return passenger requirements to Commander, Military Traffic Management Command, ATTN: MTMC-PTO-P, Washington, DC 20315. 


(iii) Issuing each passenger a MAC Transportation Authorization (DD Form 1482) for transportation from the overseas location and return, when round trip transportation has been requested. The customer identification code, item (7) of the DD Form 1482, should be designated—JBWJ—which was approved by MAC as the permanent CIC for direct billing purposes to HQ, Boy Scouts of America, North Brunswick, New Jersey, 08902. 


(iv) Ensuring that each Scout passenger has a completed DD Form 1381, signed by a parent, guardian or other legally responsible individual. 


(v) Evaluating the use and necessity of military airlift within or between overseas locations. This evaluation will include such factors as reasonable travel time, number of connections required, and assurance of Scout group integrity. Surface transportation will normally be used for travel within an overseas area. 


(8) The responsibilities of the MTMC include: 


(i) Evaluating the return outbound passenger requirements and making the necessary transportation arrangements so as to maintain Scout group integrity at all times. 


(ii) Assisting the BSA in completing required documentation and insuring that passengers are ready prior to the return flight. 


(iii) Pub. L. 92-249 does not provide authorization for the use of the Department of Defense transportation by Scouts, Scouters, and Officials of foreign nations. All requests to transport such persons should be forwarded through the unified command channels to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). However, DOD does not contemplate authorization for the use of MAC aircraft for other than U.S. Scouts, Scouters, and Officials. 


(iv) Use of military helicopters in support of medical evacuation, VIP, press and photo-services—The Director of Army Aviation, the Department of the Army Staff Judge Advocate, and the Comptroller of the Army have furnished the general opinion that Pub. L. 92-249 authorizes the use of Military helicopters in support of the above described services to the extent they are reasonably available and permits the use of appropriated funds. 


(q) *Determination of charges and settlement.* (1) All property on which repair cost is claimed will be held at the depot or post, camp or station until final charges are determined and a release is given by CDR, DARCOM, Department of the Army. 


(2) The commodity command (military department) will prepare the following information and statement, and forward them, to CDR, DARCOM, Department of the Army, for final review: 


(i) Complete Property Transaction Record and supporting documents. 


(ii) Proper accounts for which reimbursement received for shortages and repairs are to be deposited. 


(iii) The following statement: “The losses and/or damages indicated on the Property Transaction Report in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by (appropriate commodity command or military department) relative to commodity command or military department property loaned to (Boy Scouts of America). Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, the CDR of the commodity command or military department releases the (Boy Scouts of America) from further obligations.” 


(iv) Statements as to the general type of repair (e.g., tentage, repair tears, insert new panels, replace grommets) will be reported on separate addendum to the Property Transaction Record for items requiring repair. 


(3) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will prepare the following information and statement for property furnished for assets in the command and will forward this to CDR, DARCOM: 


(i) Same as (q)(2)(i) of this section. 


(ii) Same as (q)(2)(ii) of this section. 


(iii) The following statement: The losses and/or damages indicated on the Property Transaction Record in the amount of $______ represent the total claim by (appropriate Army) relative to (appropriate Army) property loaned to (Boy Scouts of America). Upon settlement and deposit to the proper account, the CINC/CDR, MACOM releases the (Boy Scouts of America) from further obligations. 


(iv) Same as (q)(2)(iv) of this section. 


(4) CDR, DARCOM, will review the charges, inspect property to be repaired, if necessary, reconcile any discrepancies and determine final charges to be levied against the supported activity. Approved list of charges will be forwarded to the CINC/CDR, MACOM, for collection, and property being held for repair will be released. 


(5) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will prepare and dispatch a letter to the supporting activity and request payment made payable to the Treasurer of the United States. Upon receipt of payment, collection documents will be prepared and appropriate fiscal accounts, as furnished by the commodity command (military departments) ((q)(2) and (3) of this section) credited. The MACOM Surgeon will take action to reimburse the DLA stock fund for expendable medical supply losses reported. The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will close the Property Transaction Record Account. 


(6) The CINC/CDR, MACOM, will advise the CDR, commodity command (military departments and CDR, DARCOM, DA) that settlement has been accomplished. Commodity command (military department) Property Transaction Records will be closed upon receipt of the foregoing advice. 


(7) The CDR, DARCOM will advise the CINC/CDR, MACOM, to return the bond to Boy Scouts of America. 


(8) In the event of unsatisfactory settlement, the proceeds of the bond will be used to satisy the claim. The Power of Attorney executed in connection with the agreement will be invoked and proceeds collected from the bond (fig. 7-7). 




