# § 7.47   Deflection temperature test.

(a) *Test procedures.* (1) Prepare two samples for testing that measure 5 inches by 
1/2 inch, by the thickness of the material as it will be used. Prior to testing, condition the samples at 73.4 ±3.6 °F (23 ±2 °C) and 50 ±5% relative humidity for at least 40 hours.


(2) Place a sample on supports which are 4 inches apart and immersed in a heat transfer medium at a test temperature range of 65 °F−80 °F (18.3 °C−26.7 °C). The heat transfer medium must be a liquid which will not chemically affect the sample. The testing apparatus must be constructed so that expansion of any components during heating of the medium does not result in deflection of the sample.


(3) Place a temperature measuring device with an accuracy of 1% into the heat transfer medium within 
1/8 inch of, but not touching, the sample.


(4) Apply a total load, in pounds, numerically equivalent to 11 times the thickness of the sample, in inches, to the sample midway between the supports using a 
1/8 inch radius, rounded contact. The total load includes that weight used to apply the load and any force exerted by the deflection measurement device.


(5) Use a deflection measuring device with an accuracy of ±.001 inches to measure the deflection of the sample at the point of loading as the temperature of the medium is increased at a uniform rate of 3.6 ±.36 °F/min. (2 ±0.2 °C/min.). Apply the load to the sample for 5 minutes prior to heating, to allow compensation for creep in the sample due to the loading.


(6) Record the deflection of the sample due to heating at 180 °F (82 °C).


(7) Repeat steps 2 through 6 for the other sample.


(b) *Acceptable performance.* Neither sample shall have a deflection greater than .010 inch at 180 °F (82 °C).



---

[N] [53 FR 23500, June 22, 1988; 53 FR 25569, July 7, 1988; 60 FR 33723, June 29, 1995]




