# § 98.526   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable:


(a) The total number of ceramics process units at the facility and the number of units that operated during the reporting year.


(b) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions from ceramics process units, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The annual quantity of each carbonate-based raw material (including clay) charged to each ceramics process unit and for all units combined (tons).


(2) Annual quantity of each type of ceramics product manufactured by each ceramics process unit and by all units combined (tons).


(3) Annual production capacity for each ceramics process unit (tons).


(c) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions from ceramics process units and process CO_2_ emissions are calculated according to the procedures specified in § 98.523(b), then you must report the following information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) Annual process emissions of CO_2_ (metric tons) for each ceramics process unit and for all units combined.


(2) The annual quantity of each carbonate-based raw material (including clay) charged to each ceramics process unit and for all units combined (tons).


(3) Results of all tests used to verify each carbonate-based mineral mass fraction for each carbonate-based raw material charged to a ceramics process unit, as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Date of test.


(ii) Method(s) and any variations used in the analyses.


(iii) Mass fraction of each sample analyzed.


(4) Method used to determine the decimal mass fraction of carbonate-based mineral, unless you used the default value of 1.0 (*e.g.,* supplier provided information, analyses of representative samples you collected, or use of a default value of 0.005 as specified by § 98.524(b)).


(5) Annual quantity of each type of ceramics product manufactured by each ceramics process unit and by all units combined (tons).


(6) Annual production capacity for each ceramics process unit (tons).


(7) If you use the missing data procedures in § 98.525(b), you must report for each applicable ceramics process unit the number of times in the reporting year that missing data procedures were followed to measure monthly quantities of carbonate-based raw materials or mass fraction of the carbonate-based minerals (months).






