# ยง 49.128   Rule for limiting particulate matter emissions from wood products industry sources.

(a) *What is the purpose of this section?* This section limits the amount of particulate matter that may be emitted from certain wood products industry sources operating within the Indian reservation to control ground-level concentrations of particulate matter.


(b) *Who is affected by this section?* This section applies to any person who owns or operates any of the following wood products industry sources:


(1) Veneer manufacturing operations;


(2) Plywood manufacturing operations;


(3) Particleboard manufacturing operations; and


(4) Hardboard manufacturing operations.


(c) *What are the PM10 emission limits for wood products industry sources?* These PM10 limits are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the particulate matter limits for combustion sources and process sources.


(1) *Veneer dryers at veneer manufacturing operations and plywood manufacturing operations.* (i) PM10 emissions from direct natural gas fired or direct propane fired veneer dryers must not exceed 0.3 pounds per 1000 square feet of veneer dried (
3/8 inch basis), one-hour average.


(ii) PM10 emissions from steam heated veneer dryers must not exceed 0.3 pounds per 1000 square feet of veneer dried (
3/8 inch basis), one-hour average.


(iii) PM10 emissions from wood fired veneer dryers must not exceed a total of 0.3 pounds per 1000 square feet of veneer dried (
3/8 inch basis) and 0.2 pounds per 1000 pounds of steam generated in boilers, prorated for the amount of combustion gases routed to the veneer dryer, one-hour average.


(2) *Wood particle dryers at particleboard manufacturing operation.* PM10 emissions from wood particle dryers must not exceed a total of 0.4 pounds per 1000 square feet of board produced by the plant (
3/4 inch basis), one-hour average.


(3) *Press/cooling vents at hardboard manufacturing operations.* PM10 emissions from hardboard press/cooling vents must not exceed 0.3 pounds per 1000 square feet of hardboard produced (
1/8 inch basis), one-hour average.


(4) *Tempering ovens at hardboard manufacturing operations.* A person must not operate any hardboard tempering oven unless all gases and vapors are collected and treated in a fume incinerator capable of raising the temperature of the gases and vapors to at least 1500 degrees Fahrenheit for 0.3 seconds or longer.


(d) *What is the reference method for determining compliance?* The reference method for determining compliance with the PM10 limits is EPA Method 202 in conjunction with Method 201A. A complete description of these methods is found in appendix M of 40 CFR part 51.


(e) *Definitions of terms used in this section.* The following terms that are used in this section are defined in ยง 49.123 General provisions: Act, combustion source, emissions, hardboard, particleboard, particulate matter, plywood, PM10, PM2.5, press/cooling vent, process source, tempering oven, veneer, veneer dryer, wood, and wood-fired veneer dryer.




