# § 31.6051-4   Statement required in case of backup withholding.

(a) *Statements required from payor.* Every payor of any reportable payment (as defined in section 3406(b)(1)) who is required to deduct and withhold tax under section 3406 must furnish to the payee a written statement containing the information required by paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Prescribed form.* The prescribed form for the statement required by this section is Form 1099. In the case of any reportable interest or dividend payment as defined in section 3406(b)(2), the prescribed form is the Form 1099 required in § 1.6042-4 of this chapter (relating to payments of dividends), § 1.6044-5 of this chapter (relating to payments of patronage dividends), or § 1.6049-6(e) of this chapter (relating to payments of interest or original issue discount). Statements required to be furnished by this section will be treated as statements required by the respective sections with respect to any reportable payment, except that the statement required under this section must include the amount of tax withheld under section 3406. In no event will a statement be required under this section if a statement with the same information is required to be furnished to the recipient under another section.


(c) *Information required.* Each statement on Form 1099 must show the following:


(1) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the person receiving any reportable payment;


(2) Except as provided in the prescribed form or instructions, the amount subject to reporting under section 6041, 6041A(a), 6042, 6044, 6045, 6049, 6050A, 6050N, or 6050W whether or not the amount of the reportable payment is less than the amount for which an information return is required or, if tax is withheld under section 3406, the amount of the payment withheld upon;


(3) The amount of tax deducted and withheld under section 3406;


(4) The name and address of the person filing the form;


(5) A legend stating that such amount is being reported to the Internal Revenue Service; and


(6) Such other information as is required by the form.


(d) *Time for furnishing statements.* The statement must be furnished to the payee no later than January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the payment was made. However, for a statement required to be furnished after December 31, 2008, the February 15 due date under section 6045 applies to the statement if the statement reports tax withheld from a payment reportable under section 6045 or is furnished in a consolidated reporting statement under section 6045. *See* §§ 1.6045-1(k)(3), 1.6045-2(d)(2), 1.6045-3(e)(2), 1.6045-4(m)(3), and 1.6045-5(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.


(e) *Aggregation.* The payor or broker may combine the information required to be shown under this section with information required to be shown under another section even if they do not relate to the same type of reportable payment.



---

[N] [T.D. 8637, 60 FR 66133, Dec. 21, 1995, as amended by T.D. 9496, 75 FR 49835, Aug. 16, 2010; T.D. 9504, 75 FR 64103, Oct. 18, 2010]




