# § 173.22   Shipper's responsibility.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, a person may offer a hazardous material for transportation in a packaging or container required by this part only in accordance with the following:


(1) The person shall class and describe the hazardous material in accordance with parts 172 and 173 of this subchapter, and


(2) The person shall determine that the packaging or container is an authorized packaging, including part 173 requirements, and that it has been manufactured, assembled, and marked in accordance with:


(i) Section 173.7(a) and parts 173, 178, or 179 of this subchapter;


(ii) A specification of the Department in effect at the date of manufacture of the packaging or container;


(iii) National or international regulations based on the UN Recommendations (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), as authorized in § 173.24(d)(2); 


(iv) An approval issued under this subchapter; or


(v) An exemption or special permit issued under subchapter A of this chapter.


(3) In making the determination under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the person may accept:


(i) Except for the marking on the bottom of a metal or plastic drum with a capacity over 100 L which has been reconditioned, remanufactured or otherwise converted, the manufacturer's certification, specification, approval, or exemption or special permit marking (see §§ 178.2 and 179.1 of this subchapter); or


(ii) With respect to cargo tanks provided by a carrier, the manufacturer's identification plate or a written certification of specification or exemption or special permit provided by the carrier.


(4)(i) For a DOT Specification or UN standard packaging subject to the requirements of part 178 of this subchapter, a person must perform all functions necessary to bring the package into compliance with parts 173 and 178 of this subchapter, as identified by the packaging manufacturer or subsequent distributor (for example, applying closures consistent with the manufacturer's closure instructions) in accordance with § 178.2 of this subchapter.


(ii) For other than a bulk package or a cylinder, a person must retain a copy of the manufacturer's notification, including closure instructions (*see* § 178.2(c) of this subchapter). For a bulk package or a cylinder, a person must retain a copy of the manufacturer's notification, including closure instructions (*see* § 178.2(c) of this subchapter), unless permanently embossed or printed on the package. A copy of the manufacturer's notification, including closure instructions (*see* § 178.2(c) of this subchapter), unless permanently embossed or printed on the package when applicable, must be made available for inspection by a representative of the Department upon request for at least 90 days once the package is offered to the initial carrier for transportation in commerce. Subsequent offerors of a filled and otherwise properly prepared unaltered package are not required to maintain manufacturer notification (including closure instructions).


(iii) When applicable, a person must retain a copy of any supporting documentation used to determine an equivalent level of performance under the selective testing variation in § 178.601(g)(1) of this subchapter. Such documentation is to be retained by the person certifying compliance with § 178.601(g)(1), as prescribed in § 178.601(l), and retained as prescribed in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.


(b) No person may offer a motor carrier any hazardous material specified in 49 CFR 385.403 unless that motor carrier holds a safety permit issued by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. 


(c) Prior to each shipment of fissile radioactive materials, and Type B or highway route controlled quantity packages of radioactive materials (see § 173.403), the shipper shall notify the consignee of the dates of shipment and expected arrival. The shipper shall also notify each consignee of any special loading/unloading instructions prior to his first shipment. For any shipment of irradiated reactor fuel, the shipper shall provide physical protection in compliance with a plan established under:


(1) Requirements prescribed by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or


(2) Equivalent requirements approved by the Associate Administrator.



---

[N] [Amdt. 173-100, 42 FR 2689, Jan. 13, 1977]


