# ยง 383.31   Notification of convictions for driver violations.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each person who operates a commercial motor vehicle, who has a commercial learner's permit or commercial driver's license issued by a State or jurisdiction, and who is convicted of violating, in any type of motor vehicle, a State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than a parking violation) in a State or jurisdiction other than the one which issued his/her permit or license, shall notify an official designated by the State or jurisdiction which issued such permit or license, of such conviction. The notification must be made within 30 days after the date that the person has been convicted.


(b) Each person who operates a commercial motor vehicle, who has a commercial driver's license issued by a State or jurisdiction, and who is convicted of violating, in any type of motor vehicle, a State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control (other than a parking violation), shall notify his/her current employer of such conviction. The notification must be made within 30 days after the date that the person has been convicted. If the driver is not currently employed, he/she must notify the State or jurisdiction which issued the license according to ยง 383.31(a).


(c) *Notification.* The notification to the State official and employer must be made in writing and contain the following information:


(1) Driver's full name;


(2) Driver's license number;


(3) Date of conviction;


(4) The specific criminal or other offense(s), serious traffic violation(s), and other violation(s) of State or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control, for which the person was convicted and any suspension, revocation, or cancellation of certain driving privileges which resulted from such conviction(s);


(5) Indication whether the violation was in a commercial motor vehicle;


(6) Location of offense; and


(7) Driver's signature.


(d) A person is considered to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if the conviction occurs in a State or jurisdiction that is in substantial compliance with 49 CFR 384.209 and has not been de-certified in accordance with 49 CFR 384.405.



---

[N] [52 FR 20587, June 1, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 40787, Oct. 3, 1989; 78 FR 24688, Apr. 26, 2013]




