# § 42.09-10   Stability, subdivision, and strength.

(a) *All vessels.* Where regulations in this part, or in part 46 of this subchapter, require or permit load line assignment on the basis of the vessel's ability to meet specified flooding, including damage stability requirements, the owner shall furnish the necessary plans and calculations demonstrating that the vessel is in compliance with the applicable requirements. This material shall be furnished to the assigning authority for approval review at the earliest practicable date except where specifically required by part 46 of this subchapter for passenger vessels to be submitted to the Commandant for approval. 


(1) When stability information is required, the plans shall include the location and extent of all watertight subdivision bulkheads, etc., involved. 


(2) Additional stability, subdivision, and strength requirements are in §§ 42.09-1, 42.13-1, 42.13-5, and 42.15-1. The applicable flooded stability requirements are in §§ 42.20-3 through 42.20-13.


(b) *Passenger vessels.* In passenger vessels where the positions of the maximum load lines is subject to determination by the application of subdivision and stability requirements in this subchapter, the provisions of both parts 42 and 46 shall be accounted for and developed as necessary. See subchapter H (Passenger Vessels) of this chapter for related data required to be submitted to the Commandant. 


(c) *Light ship data.* All plans, etc., necessary for obtaining the Commandant's approval of test results (light ship data) and stability information shall be furnished by the owner. In the absence of existing acceptable light ship stability information, such data shall be obtained from a stability test performed under the supervision of the Commandant. Results of such tests, if satisfactory, will be approved by the Commandant. 



---

[N] [CGFR 68-60, 33 FR 10056, July 12, 1968, as amended by CGFR 68-126, 34 FR 9012, June 5, 1969; CGD 79-153, 48 FR 38647, Aug. 25, 1983] 




