# ยง 74.2705   FD&C Yellow No. 5.

(a) *Identity.* The color additive FD&C Yellow No. 5 is principally the trisodium salt of 4,5-dihydro-5-oxo-(1-4-sulfophenyl)-4-[(4-sulfophenyl)azo]-1*H*-pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid (CAS Reg. No. 1934-21-0). To manufacture the additive, 4-aminobenzenesulfonic acid is diazotized using hydrochloric acid and sodium nitrite. The diazo compound is coupled with 4,5-dihydro-5-oxo-1-(4-sulfophenyl)-1*H*-pyrazole-3-carboxylic acid or with the methyl ester, the ethyl ester, or a salt of this carboxylic acid. The resulting dye is purified and isolated as the sodium salt.


(b) *Specifications.* (1) FD&C Yellow No. 5 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(2) FD&C Yellow No. 5 Aluminum Lake shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of ยง 82.51 of this chapter.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) FD&C Yellow No. 5 may be safely used for coloring cosmetics generally, including cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice.


(2) FD&C Yellow No. 5 Aluminum Lake may be safely used for coloring cosmetics intended for use in the area of the eye, subject to the restrictions on use of color additives in ยง 70.5(b) and (c) of this chapter, in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of FD&C Yellow No. 5 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.



---

[N] [50 FR 35782, Sept. 4, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 24524, July 7, 1986; 59 FR 60898, Nov. 29, 1994]




