# § 151.6   Procedures.

(a) *Request to foreign authorities not to exercise their criminal and civil jurisdiction over dependents.* The procedures in this section will be followed when it appears that foreign authorities may exercise criminal jurisdiction over dependents of DoD personnel:


(1) When the DCO determines, after a careful consideration of all the circumstances, including consultation with the Department of Justice where the matter involves possible prosecution in U.S. civilian courts, that suitable action can be taken under existing U.S. laws or administrative regulations, the DCO may request the local foreign authorities to waive the exercise of criminal jurisdiction.


(2) When it appears possible that the accused may not obtain a fair trial, the commander exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the command to which such persons are attached or with which they are associated will communicate directly with the DCO, reporting the full facts of the case. The DCO will then determine, in the light of legal procedures in effect in that country, if there is a risk that the accused will not receive a fair trial. If the DCO determines that there is a risk that the accused will not receive a fair trial, the DCO will decide, after consultation with the U.S. Chief of Mission, whether a request should be submitted through diplomatic channels to foreign authorities seeking their assurances of a fair trial for the accused or, in appropriate circumstances, that they waive the exercise of jurisdiction over the accused. If the DCO so decides, a recommendation will be submitted through the geographic Combatant Commander and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Secretary of Defense. Copies must be provided to the Secretary concerned and the GC DoD.


(b) *Trial observers and trial observers' reports.* (1) U.S. observers at trials before courts of the receiving country (referred to in this section as “trial observers”) must attend and prepare formal reports in all cases of trials by foreign courts or tribunals of dependents of DoD personnel, except for minor offenses. In cases of minor offenses, the observer will attend the trial at the discretion of the DCO, but will not be required to make a formal report.


(i) Unless directed by the DCO, trial observers are not required to attend all preliminary proceedings, such as scheduling hearings, but will attend the trial on the merits and other pre- and post-trial proceedings where significant procedural or substantive matters are decided.


(ii) Trial observer reports regarding dependents of DoD personnel will be handled and processed pursuant to DoD Instruction 5525.01(4)(b-c).


(2) The DCO, upon receipt of a trial observer report, will be responsible for determining whether:


(i) There was any failure to comply with the procedural safeguards secured by the pertinent status of forces agreement.


(ii) The accused received a fair trial under all the circumstances. Due regard should be given to those fair trial rights listed in DoD Instruction 5525.01 “Foreign Criminal and Civil Jurisdiction,” Enclosure 5, “Fair Trial Guarantees” that are relevant to the particular facts and circumstances of the trial. A trial will not be determined to be unfair merely because it is not conducted in a manner identical to trials held in the United States.


(A) If the DCO believes that the procedural safeguards specified in pertinent agreements were denied or that the trial was otherwise unjust, the DCO will submit a recommendation as to appropriate action to rectify the trial deficiencies and otherwise to protect the rights or interests of the accused. This recommendation must include a statement of efforts taken or to be taken at the local level to protect the rights of the accused.


(B) The DCO will submit the recommendation to the Secretary of Defense, through the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (with an advance copy to the General Counsel of the Department of Defense); copies must be provided to the geographic Combatant Commander concerned, the General Counsel and the Judge Advocate General of the Military Department concerned or, in the case of the USMC, to the General Counsel of the Navy and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or, in the case of the Coast Guard, the Judge Advocate General of the Coast Guard, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


(c) *Counsel fees and related assistance for U.S. personnel not subject to the UCMJ.* In cases of exceptional interest to the Military Department concerned or the Department of Homeland Security involving non-military DoD personnel, the Secretary of that Military Department or the Secretary of Homeland Security may approve, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1037, under the following circumstances:


(1) *Criminal cases.* Requests for the provision of counsel fees and payment of expenses in criminal cases may be approved in pre-trial, trial, appellate, and post-trial proceedings in any criminal case where:


(i) The sentence that is normally imposed includes confinement, whether or not such sentence is suspended;


(ii) Capital punishment might be imposed;


(iii) An appeal is made from any proceeding in which there appears to have been a denial of the substantial rights of the accused;


(iv) The case, although not within the criteria established in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, is considered to have significant impact on U.S. interests, including upon the relations of the Armed Forces with the host country.


(2) *Civil cases.* Requests for provision of counsel fees and payment of expenses in civil cases may be granted in trial and appellate proceedings in civil cases where the case is considered to have a significant impact on the relations of the Armed Forces with the host country; or in cases brought against eligible non-military DoD personnel (and in exceptional cases, by such personnel) if the case is considered to involve any other U.S. interest.


(3) *Funding restrictions.* (i) No funds will be provided under this part in cases where the U.S. Government is—in actuality or in legal effect—the plaintiff or the defendant; all such cases shall be referred to the Department of Justice, Office of Foreign Litigation. No funds will be provided under this part in cases where the non-military DoD personnel member is a plaintiff without prior authorization of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned or the Secretary of Homeland Security. The provisions of this paragraph also are applicable to proceedings with civil aspects that are brought by eligible personnel as criminal cases in accordance with local law. Funds for the posting of bail or bond to secure the release of non-military DoD personnel from confinement will be used as provided by applicable Armed Force regulations.


(ii) No funds will be provided under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to a plaintiff who, if successful, will receive an award, in whole or in part, from the United States.


(iii) As provided for in 10 U.S.C. 1037, a person on whose behalf a payment is made under this provision is not liable to reimburse the United States for that payment, unless he or she is responsible for the forfeiture of bail provided for him or her under this provision.


(d) *Treatment of dependents confined in foreign penal institutions.* In cooperation with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission and to the maximum extent possible, military commanders will ensure that dependents of DoD personnel receive the same treatment, rights, and support as would be extended to Armed Forces members when in the custody of foreign authorities, or when confined (pretrial and post-trial) in foreign penal institutions. Commanders will work with the appropriate U.S. Chief of Mission to make appropriate diplomatic contacts for the categories of dependents described in this section who are not U.S. nationals.


(e) *Information policy.* The general public and the Congress must be provided promptly with the maximum information concerning status of forces matters that are consistent with the national interest. Information will be coordinated and provided to the public and the Congress in accordance with established procedures, including those in DoD Directive 5122.05, “Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs (ATSD(PA))” (available at *http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodd/512205_dodd_2017.pdf?ver=2017-08-07-125832-023*), 32 CFR part 286, 32 CFR part 310, and DoD Instruction 5400.04, “Provision of Information to Congress” (available at *http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/540004p.pdf*). 




