# § 451.2   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Biomass* means biologically generated energy sources such as heat derived from combustion of plant matter, or from combustion of gases or liquids derived from plant matter, animal wastes, or sewage, or from combustion of gases derived from landfills, or hydrogen derived from these same sources.


*Closed-loop biomass* means any organic material from a plant which is planted exclusively for purposes of being used at a qualified renewable energy facility to generate electricity.


*Date of first use* means, at the option of the facility owner, the date of the first kilowatt-hour sale, the date of completion of facility equipment testing, or the date when all approved permits required for facility construction are received.


*Deciding Official* means the Manager of the Golden Field Office of the Department of Energy (or any DOE official to whom the authority of the Manager of the Golden Field Office may be redelegated by the Secretary of Energy).


*DOE* means the Department of Energy.


*Finance Office* means the DOE Office of the Chief Financial Officer (or any office to which that Office's authority may be redelegated by the Secretary of Energy).


*Fiscal year* means the Federal fiscal year beginning October 1 and ending on September 30 of the following calendar year.


*Indian tribal government* means the governing body of an Indian tribe as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).


*Native corporation* has the meaning set forth in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (25 U.S.C. 1602).


*Net electric energy* means the metered kilowatt-hours (kWh) generated and sold, and excludes electric energy used within the renewable energy facility to power equipment such as pumps, motors, controls, lighting, heating, cooling, and other systems needed to operate the facility.


*Not-for-profit electrical cooperative* means a cooperative association that is legally obligated to operate on a not-for-profit basis and is organized under the laws of any State for the purpose of providing electric service to its members.


*Ocean* means the waters of the Atlantic Ocean (including the Gulf of Mexico) and the Pacific Ocean within the jurisdiction of the United States from which energy may be derived through application of tides, waves, currents, thermal differences, or other means.


*Renewable energy facility* means a single module or unit, or an aggregation of such units, that generates electric energy which is independently metered and which results from the utilization of a renewable energy source.


*Renewable energy source* means solar heat, solar light, wind, ocean, geothermal heat, and biomass, except for—


(1) Heat from the burning of municipal solid waste; or


(2) Heat from a dry steam geothermal reservoir which—


(i) Has no mobile liquid in its natural state;


(ii) Is a fluid composed of at least 95 percent water vapor; and


(iii) Has an enthalpy for the total produced fluid greater than or equal to 2.791 megajoules per kilogram (1200 British thermal units per pound).


*State* means the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any of the States, Commonwealths, territories, and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [60 FR 36964, July 19, 1995, as amended at 71 FR 46386, Aug. 14, 2006]




