# § 1951.7   Accounts of borrowers.

(a) *Accounts of active borrowers.* The foundation for proper and timely debt payment is sound farm and home planning or budgeting, including plans for debt payment, supplemented by effective followup management assistance. Account servicing, therefore, must begin with initial planning and must be an integral part of analysis and subsequent planning, as well as follow-up management assistance.


(b) *Accounts of collection-only borrowers.* (1) Collection-only borrowers are expected to pay debts to the Agency in accordance with their ability to pay. Efforts to collect such debts, including use of collection letters and account servicing visits, must be coordinated with other program activities. If these borrowers are unable to pay in full, appropriate debt settlement policies should be promptly applied.


(2) Envelopes addressed to collection-only borrowers will bear the legend “DO NOT FORWARD.” When an envelope is returned indicating the borrower has moved, appropriate steps will be taken to determine the borrower's correct address.


(3) Regular County Office employees are generally expected to service the collection-only caseload when it is of moderate size. State Directors may assign additional employees to County Offices having large collection-only caseloads when necessary to service such cases to a prompt conclusion. State Directors may inform the National Office of the need for employing special collection personnel in urban areas having large collection-only caseloads when employees are not available to assign to such areas.


(4) The following actions will be taken in servicing accounts owed by collection-only borrowers:


(i) District Directors will review, yearly, all collection-only cases in each County Office with the County Supervisor as early in *each* fiscal year as possible. They will jointly agree on the actions to take and will complete Form RD 451-27, “Review of Collection-Only Accounts.”


(ii) District Directors will establish with County Supervisors a systematic plan for collecting the accounts or initiating appropriate debt settlement actions during the year.


(iii) County Supervisors will include in their monthly calendars plans for servicing these accounts.


(iv) On visits to County Offices, District Directors will review the progress being made by County Supervisors to insure that goals will be reached.


(v) For collection-only accounts in District Offices, the State Director will review the accounts as required in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(iv) of this section and the District Director will service the account.


(c) *Notifying borrowers of payments.* County Supervisors will notify borrowers of the dates and amounts of payments that have been agreed on for all types of accounts. Form RD, “Reminder of Payment to be Made,” or similar form approved by the State Director, will be used. The form will not contain any language indicating that an account is delinquent. These notices will be timed to reach borrowers immediately before the receipt of the income from which the payments should be made or before the installment due date on the note, as appropriate, and may include other pertinent information such as a reference to agreements reached during the year and sources of income from which the payment was planned. Such notices need not be sent when frequent payments are scheduled and the borrower customarily makes the payments when due.


(d) *Subsequent servicing.* (1) When a Farmer Program borrower fails to make a payment as agreed, the County Supervisor will notify the borrower in accordance with subpart S of part 1951 of this chapter.


(2) When a borrower other than a Farmer Program borrower fails to make a payment as agreed, the County Supervisor will contact the borrower to discuss the reasons why the payment was not made and to develop specific plans, for making the payment. Form RD, “Notice of Payment Due,” may be used to notify borrowers who make payments directly to the Finance Office that their payment has not been received. Form RD 450-13, “Request for Assignment of Income From Trust Property,” may be used when other methods of loan collection fail and debt repayment is possible from trust income. In the event the borrower refuses to make the payment when income is available, or if it is determined that income will not be available to make the payment within a reasonable length of time and will not be available to make future payments, action will be taken to protect the Government's interest in accordance with applicable regulations. Followup actions of subsequent servicing will be noted on appropriate Management System Cards.


(e) *Maintaining records of accounts in County Offices.* Records of the accounts of Agency borrowers will be maintained in the County Office as provided in RD Instruction 1905-A (available in any Agency office).


(f) *Inquiry for Multiple Family Housing (MFH) loans.* Inquiry for all RRH, RCH, LH, RHS and SO loans and grants will be made through field terminals using procedures in the “MFH Users Procedures” manual or by contacting the MFH Unit in the Finance Office.


(g) *Inquiry for other than Multiple Family Housing (MFH) loans.* Inquiry for these loan programs will be made through field terminals using procedures in the “Automated Discrepancy Processing System (ADPS)” manuals.


(h) *Loan Summary Statements.* Upon request of a borrower, Rural Development issues a loan summary statement that shows the account activity for each loan made or insured under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act. The field office will post on the bulletin board a notice informing the borrower of the availability of the loan summary statement. See Exhibit A for a sample of the required notice.


(1) The loan summary statement period is from January 1 through December 31. The Finance Office forwards a copy of Form RD 1951-9, “Annual Statement of Loan Account,” to field offices to be retained in borrower files as a permanent record of borrower activity for the year.


(2) Quarterly Forms RD 1951-9 are retained in the Finance Office on microfiche. These quarterly statements reflect cumulative data from the beginning of the current year through the end of the most recent quarter. If a borrower requests a loan summary statement with data through the most recent quarter, county supervisors may request copies of these quarterly or annual statements by sending Form RD 1951-57, “Request for Loan Summary Statement,” to the Finance Office.


(3) When a loan summary statement is requested by the borrower, the field office will copy the applicable annual or quarterly Forms RD 1951-9. A copy(ies) of Form RD 1951-9 and a copy of the promissory note showing borrower installments will constitute the loan summary statement provided to the borrower.



---

[N] [50 FR 45764, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 11457, Apr. 9, 1987; 53 FR 35716, Sept. 14, 1988; 54 FR 10269, Mar. 13, 1989]




