# § 416.1   Basis and scope.

(a) *Statutory basis.* (1) Section 1832(a)(2)(F)(i) of the Act provides for Medicare Part B coverage of facility services furnished in connection with surgical procedures specified by the Secretary under section 1833(i)(1) of the Act. 


(2) Section 1833(i)(1)(A) of the Act requires the Secretary to specify the surgical procedures that can be performed safely on an ambulatory basis in an ambulatory surgical center.


(3) Sections 1833(i)(2)(A) and (D) and 1833(a)(1)(G) of the Act specify the amounts to be paid for facility services furnished in connection with the specified surgical procedures when they are performed in an ASC.


(4) Section 1833(i)(2)(C) of the Act provides that if the Secretary has not updated amounts for ASC facility services furnished during a fiscal year through 2005 or a calendar year beginning with 2006, the amounts shall be increased by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers as estimated by the Secretary for the 12-month period ending with the midpoint of the year involved, except that, in fiscal year 2005, the last quarter of calendar year 2005, and each of the calendar years 2006 through 2009, the increase shall be zero percent.


(5) Section 1833(i)(2)(E) of the Act provides that, with respect to surgical procedures furnished on or after January 1, 2007, and before the effective date of the implementation of a revised payment system, the payment amount shall be the lesser of the ASC payment rate established under section 1833(i)(2)(A) of the Act or the prospective payment rate for hospital outpatient department services established under section 1833(t)(3)(D) of the Act. The lesser payment amount shall be determined prior to application of any geographic adjustment.


(b) *Scope.* This part sets forth— 


(1) The conditions that an ASC must meet in order to participate in the Medicare program; 


(2) The scope of covered services; and 


(3) The conditions for Medicare payment for facility services. 



---

[N] [56 FR 8843, Mar. 1, 1991; 56 FR 23022, May 20, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 68226, Nov. 24, 2006]




