# § 4270.12   Violations of program requirements.

This section identifies the types of actions that USDA considers violations under this part and the penalties (*e.g.,* the suspension or revocation of certification) associated with such violations.


(a) *General.* Violations under this section occur on a per product basis and the penalties are to be applied on a per product basis. Entities cited for a violation under this section may appeal using the provisions in § 4270.13. If certification for a product is revoked, the Participating Organization whose certification has been revoked may seek re-certification for the product specified under the provisions in § 4270.9.


(b) *Types of violations.* Actions that will be considered violations of this part include, but are not limited to, the examples as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:


(1) *Biobased Content violations.* USDA reserves the right to request occasional testing of Certified Biobased Products without notice to compare the Biobased Content of the tested product with the product's Applicable Minimum Biobased Content and the Biobased content reported in its Certified Application. Such testing will be conducted using ASTM Method D6866 in accordance with the procedures discussed in § 4270.7.


(i) If the testing shows that the Biobased Content of a Certified Biobased Product is less than its Applicable Minimum Biobased Content, then a violation of this part will have occurred.


(ii) If the testing shows that the Biobased Content is less than that reported in the product's Certified Application but is still equal to or greater than its Applicable Minimum Biobased Content(s), USDA will provide written notification to the Participating Organization. The participant must submit, within 90 Days from receipt of USDA written notification, a new application for the lower Biobased Content. Failure to submit a new application within 90 Days will be considered a violation of this part.


(A) The participant can submit a new application to use the Biobased Content reported to it by USDA in the written notification.


(B) Alternatively, the participant may submit a new application and elect to retest the product in question. If the participant elects to retest the product, it must test a sample of the current product, and the procedures in § 4270.9 must be followed. USDA reserves the right to select the sample that will be submitted for retesting.


(2) *USDA Certified Biobased Product Label violations.* (i) Any usage or display of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label that does not conform to the requirements specified in § 4270.10.


(ii) Affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any product prior to issuance of a notice of certification from USDA.


(iii) Affixing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to a Certified Biobased Product during periods when certification has been suspended or revoked.


(iv) Using an image or icon other than the official USDA Certified Biobased Product Label in association with certification claims.


(3) *Application violations.* Knowingly providing false or misleading information in any application for certification of a Biobased Product.


(4) *BioPreferred Program website violations.* Failure to provide USDA with updated information when the information for a Certified Biobased Product becomes outdated or when new information for a Certified Biobased Product becomes available.


(c) *Noncompliance and escalation of actions.* Any identified violations as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) are considered noncompliance with this part. USDA will respond to noncompliance through actions that include, but are not limited to, the examples as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4).


(1) *Noncompliance.* USDA will provide the applicable Participating Organization and any Other Entity involved, as known to USDA, written notification of any noncompliance identified by USDA, as well as actions that should be taken to resolve the noncompliance. USDA may remove the product or company information from the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*) until the noncompliance is corrected. If satisfactory resolution of the noncompliance is not reached, USDA will consider the noncompliance to be a violation of this part and may pursue further action as discussed in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section.


(2) *Violation.* USDA will first issue a notice of violation. Entities who receive a notice of violation for any violation must correct the violation(s) within 30 Days from receipt of the notice of violation. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is a Participating Organization, USDA will also issue notices of suspensions and revocations, as discussed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. USDA reserves the right to further pursue action against these entities as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If the entity receiving a notice of violation is an Other Entity (*i.e.,* not a Participating Organization), then USDA may pursue action according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) *Suspension and Revocation.* (i) If a violation is applicable to a Participating Organization and the participant fails to make the required corrections within 30 Days of receipt of a notice of violation, USDA will notify the participant, via email and certified mail as appropriate, of the continuing violation, and the certification for that product will be suspended. As of the date that the participant receives a notice of suspension, the participant and their Designated Representatives must not affix the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any of that product or associated packaging not already labeled and must not distribute any additional products bearing the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. USDA will both remove the product information from the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*) and actively communicate the product suspension to buyers in a timely and overt manner.


(ii) If, within 30 Days from receipt of the notice of suspension, the participant whose USDA product certification has been suspended makes the required corrections and notifies the USDA that the corrections have been made, the participant and their Designated Representatives may, upon receipt of USDA approval of the corrections, resume use of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. USDA will also restore the product information to the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(iii) If, following the 30-Day period, the participant does not make the required corrections, the certification for that product will be revoked. As of that date, the participant must not affix the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label to any of that product not already labeled. In addition, the participant and their Designated Representatives are prohibited from further sales of the product to which the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is affixed, and the product will no longer be listed on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*) as a product qualified for preferred Federal procurement.


(iv) If a participant whose product certification has been revoked wishes to participate in the BioPreferred Program again, the participant must follow the procedures required for the original certification specified in § 4270.9.


(4) *Other remedies.* In addition to the suspension or revocation of the product certification, depending on the nature of the violation, USDA may pursue suspension or debarment of the entities involved in accordance with 2 CFR part 417 and 48 CFR subpart 9.4. USDA further reserves the right to pursue any other remedies available by law, including any civil or criminal remedies, against any entity that violates the provisions of this part.






