# § 160.060-15   Production inspections, tests, and quality control.

(a) *General.* Manufacturers of listed and labeled buoyant vests must—


(1) Maintain quality control of the materials used, the manufacturing methods, and the finished product to meet the applicable requirements of this subpart by conducting sufficient inspections and tests of representative samples and components produced;


(2) Make available to the recognized laboratory inspector or the Coast Guard inspector, upon request, records of tests conducted by the manufacturer and records of materials used during production of the device, including affidavits by suppliers; and


(3) Permit any examination, inspection, or test required by the recognized laboratory or the Coast Guard for a produced listed and labeled device, either at the place of manufacture or some other location.


(b) *Lot size and sampling.* (1) A lot must consist of 500 buoyant vests or fewer;


(2) A new lot begins after any change or modification in materials used or manufacturing methods employed;


(3) The manufacturer of the buoyant vests must notify the recognized laboratory when a lot is ready for inspection;


(4) The manufacturer must select samples in accordance with the requirements in Table 1 to § 160.060-15(b)(4) from each lot of buoyant vests to be tested for buoyancy in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section; and


(5) If a sample vest fails the buoyancy test, the sample from the next succeeding lot must consist of 10 specimen vests or more to be tested for buoyancy in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(c) *Additional compliance tests.* An inspector may conduct an examination, test, and inspection of a buoyant device obtained from the manufacturer or through commercial channels to determine the suitability of the device for listing and labeling, or to determine its conformance to applicable requirements.


(d) *Test facilities.* The manufacturer must admit the inspector to any part of the premises at the place of manufacture of a listed and labeled device to—


(1) Examine, inspect, or test a sample of a part or a material that is included in the construction of the device; and


(2) Conduct any examination, inspection, or test in a suitable place and with appropriate apparatus provided by the manufacturer.


(e) *Buoyancy*—(1) *Buoyancy test method.* Remove the buoyant inserts from the vests. Securely attach the spring scale in a position directly over the test tank. Suspend the weighted wire basket from the scale in such a manner that the basket can be weighed while it is completely under water. In order to measure the actual buoyancy provided by the inserts, the underwater weight of the empty basket must exceed the buoyancy of the inserts. To obtain the buoyancy of the inserts, proceed as follows:


(i) Weigh the empty wire basket under water.


(ii) Place the inserts inside the basket and submerge it so that the top of the basket is at least 2 inches below the surface of the water. Allow the inserts to remain submerged for 24 hours. The tank must be locked or sealed during this 24-hour submergence period. It is important that after the inserts have once been submerged they remain submerged for the duration of the test, and at no time during the course of the test removed from the tank or otherwise exposed to air.


(iii) After the 24-hour submergence period, unlock or unseal the tank and weigh the wire basket with the inserts inside while both are still under water.


(iv) The buoyancy is computed as paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section minus paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.


(2) *Buoyancy required.* The buoyant inserts from adult size buoyant vests must provide not less than 15
1/2 pounds of buoyancy in fresh water; the inserts from the child medium size buoyant vests must provide not less than 11 pounds buoyancy; and the inserts from the child small size buoyant vests must provide not less than 7 pounds buoyancy.


(f) *Body strap test.* The complete body strap assembly, including hardware must be tested for strength by attaching the D-ring to a suitable support such that the assembly hangs vertically its full length. A weight of 150 pounds for an adult size and 115 pounds for a child size must be attached to the other end on the snap hook for 10 minutes. The specified weight must not break or excessively distort the body strap assembly.


(g) *Additional approval tests for nonstandard vests.* Tests in addition to those required by this section may be conducted by the inspector for a nonstandard vest to determine performance equivalence to a standard vest. Such additional tests may include determining performance in water, suitability of materials, donning time, ease of adjustment, and similar equivalency tests. Costs for any additional tests must be assumed by the manufacturer.


(h) *Follow-up program.* A follow-up program in accordance with ANSI/CAN/UL 9595 (incorporated by reference, see § 160.060-5) meets the requirements of this section.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0120, 89 FR 97392, Dec. 6, 2024]










