# ยง 240.14c-101   Schedule 14C. Information required in information statement.

*Item 5. Delivery of documents to security holders sharing an address.* If one annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials is being delivered to two or more security holders who share an address, furnish the following information in accordance with ยง 240.14a-3(e)(1):


(a) State that only one annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, is being delivered to multiple security holders sharing an address unless the registrant has received contrary instructions from one or more of the security holders;


(b) Undertake to deliver promptly upon written or oral request a separate copy of the annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, to a security holder at a shared address to which a single copy of the documents was delivered and provide instructions as to how a security holder can notify the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate copy of an annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable;


(c) Provide the phone number and mailing address to which a security holder can direct a notification to the registrant that the security holder wishes to receive a separate annual report to security holders, information statement, or Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials, as applicable, in the future; and


(d) Provide instructions how security holders sharing an address can request delivery of a single copy of annual reports to security holders, information statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials if they are receiving multiple copies of annual reports to security holders, information statements, or Notices of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials.



---

[N] [51 FR 42072, Nov. 20, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 48984, Dec. 29, 1987; 57 FR 36495, Aug. 13, 1992; 58 FR 14684, Mar. 18, 1993; 59 FR 67765, Dec. 30, 1994; 61 FR 49960, Sept. 24, 1996; 65 FR 65752, Nov. 2, 2000; 72 FR 4172, Jan. 29, 2007; 73 FR 977, Jan. 4, 2008; 76 FR 6046, Feb. 2, 2011; 86 FR 70259, Dec. 9, 2021; 87 FR 55197, Sept. 8, 2022]




