# § 63.25-9   Incinerators.

(a) *General.* (1) Incinerators installed on or after March 26, 1998, must meet the requirements of IMO MEPC.76(40) (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1). Incinerators in compliance with ISO 13617 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1), are considered to meet IMO MEPC.76(40). Incinerators in compliance with both ASTM F1323 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1) and Annexes A1-A3 of IMO MEPC.76(40) are considered to meet IMO MEPC.76(40).


(2) An application for type approval of shipboard incinerators must be sent to the Commanding Officer, Marine Safety Center, U.S. Coast Guard, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Ave. SE, Washington, DC 20593, or it may be transmitted by email to the Commanding Officer (MSC), at *msc@uscg.mil*.


(b) *Testing.* Before type approval is granted, the manufacturer must submit evidence that tests have been conducted by an independent third party acceptable to the Commandant (CG-ENG). Testing may be conducted at the manufacturer's facility. The independent third party must:


(1) Have experienced and qualified personnel to conduct the inspections and tests required by this section;


(2) Have documented proof of the qualifications to perform the inspections and tests required by this section; and


(3) Not be owned or controlled by a manufacturer, supplier, or vendor of shipboard incinerators.


(c) *Prohibited substances.* Shipboard incineration of the following substances is prohibited:


(1) Annex I, II, and III cargo residues of IMO MARPOL 73/78 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1) and related contaminated packing materials.


(2) Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).


(3) Garbage, as defined in Annex V of IMO MARPOL 73/78, containing more than traces of heavy metals.


(4) Refined petroleum products containing halogen compounds.


(d) *Operating manual.* Each ship with an incinerator subject to this rule must possess a manufacturer's operating manual, which must specify how to operate the incinerator within the limits described in Annex A1.5 of IMO MEPC.76(40).


(e) *Training.* Each person responsible for operating any incinerator must be trained and be capable of implementing the guidance provided in the manufacturer's operating manual.


(f) *Acceptable methods and standards for testing emissions.* The methods and standards for testing emissions that the laboratory may use in determining emissions-related information described in Annex A1.5 of IMO MEPC.76(40) are:


(1) 40 CFR part 60 Appendix A, Method 1—Sample and velocity traverses for stationary sources;


(2) 40 CFR part 60 Appendix A, Method 3A—Determination of oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations in emissions from stationary sources (instrumental-analyzer procedure);


(3) 40 CFR part 60 Appendix A, Method 5—Determination of particulate emissions from stationary sources;


(4) 40 CFR part 60 Appendix A, Method 9—Visual determination of the opacity of emissions from stationary sources;


(5) 40 CFR part 60 Appendix A, Method 10—Determination of carbon-monoxide emissions from stationary sources;


(6) ISO 9096 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1); and


(7) ISO 10396 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1).


(g) Incinerators designed and tested to meet the requirements of IMO MEPC.244(66) (incorporated by reference; see § 63.05-1) are considered equivalent to the requirements of this section and may receive U.S. Coast Guard type approval.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0634, 89 FR 50198, June 12, 2024]








