# § 50.4   What definitions apply to terms used in this part?

As used in this part, the following terms have the meanings given in this section:


*Continental United States* means the contiguous 48 states and Alaska.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*DHHL* means the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, or the agency or department of the State of Hawaii that is responsible for administering the HHCA.


*Federal Indian programs, services, and benefits* means any federally funded or authorized special program, service, or benefit provided by the United States to any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community in the continental United States that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe, or to its members, because of their status as Indians.


*Federal Native Hawaiian programs, services, and benefits* means any federally funded or authorized special program, service, or benefit provided by the United States to a Native Hawaiian government, its political subdivisions (if any), its members, the Native Hawaiian community, Native Hawaiians, or HHCA Native Hawaiians, because of their status as Native Hawaiians.


*Governing document* means a written document (*e.g.,* constitution) embodying a government's fundamental and organic law.


*Hawaiian home lands* means all lands given the status of Hawaiian home lands under the HHCA (or corresponding provisions of the Constitution of the State of Hawaii), the HHLRA, or any other Act of Congress, and all lands acquired pursuant to the HHCA.


*HHCA* means the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (Act of July 9, 1921, 42 Stat. 108), as amended.


*HHCA Native Hawaiian* means a Native Hawaiian individual who meets the definition of “native Hawaiian” in HHCA sec. 201(a)(7).


*HHLRA* means the Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act (Act of November 2, 1995, 109 Stat. 357), as amended.


*Native Hawaiian* means any individual who is a descendant of the aboriginal people who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that now constitutes the State of Hawaii.


*Native Hawaiian community* means the distinct Native Hawaiian indigenous political community that Congress, exercising its plenary power over Native American affairs, has recognized and with which Congress has implemented a special political and trust relationship.


*Native Hawaiian Governing Entity* means the Native Hawaiian community's representative sovereign government with which the Secretary reestablishes a formal government-to-government relationship.


*Request* means an express written submission to the Secretary asking for recognition as the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity.


*Requester* means the government that submits to the Secretary a request seeking to be recognized as the Native Hawaiian Governing Entity.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or that officer's authorized representative.


*Sponsor* means an individual who makes a sworn statement that another individual is:


(1) A Native Hawaiian or an HHCA Native Hawaiian; and


(2) The sponsor's parent, child, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, or first cousin.


*State* means the State of Hawaii, including its departments and agencies.


*Sworn statement* means a statement based on personal knowledge and made under oath or affirmation which, if false, is punishable under Federal or state law.




