# § 390.21   Marking of self-propelled CMVs and intermodal equipment.

(a) *General.* Every self-propelled CMV subject to subchapter B of this chapter must be marked as specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, and each unit of intermodal equipment interchanged or offered for interchange to a motor carrier by an intermodal equipment provider subject to subchapter B of this chapter must be marked as specified in paragraph (g) of this section.


(b) *Nature of marking.* The marking must display the following information: 


(1) The legal name or a single trade name of the motor carrier operating the self-propelled CMV, as listed on the Form MCSA-1, the URS online application, or the motor carrier identification report (Form MCS-150) and submitted in accordance with § 390.201 or § 390.19, as appropriate.


(2) The identification number issued by FMCSA to the motor carrier or intermodal equipment provider, preceded by the letters “USDOT.”


(3) If the name of any person other than the operating carrier appears on the CMV, the name of the operating carrier must be followed by the information required by paragraphs (b)(1), and (2) of this section, and be preceded by the words “operated by.” 


(4) Other identifying information may be displayed on the vehicle if it is not inconsistent with the information required by this paragraph. 


(c) *Size, shape, location, and color of marking.* The marking must— 


(1) Appear on both sides of the self-propelled CMV; 


(2) Be in letters that contrast sharply in color with the background on which the letters are placed; 


(3) Be readily legible, during daylight hours, from a distance of 50 feet (15.24 meters) while the CMV is stationary; and 


(4) Be kept and maintained in a manner that retains the legibility required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section. 


(d) *Construction and durability.* The marking may be painted on the CMV or may consist of a removable device, if that device meets the identification and legibility requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and such marking must be maintained as required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section. 


(e) *Rented CMVs and leased passenger-carrying CMVs.* A motor carrier operating a self-propelled CMV under a rental agreement or a passenger-carrying CMV under a lease, when the rental agreement or lease has a term not in excess of 30 calendar days, meets the requirements of this section if:


(1) The CMV is marked in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; or


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(v) of this section, the CMV is marked as set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section:


(i) The legal name or a single trade name of the lessor is displayed in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(ii) The lessor's identification number preceded by the letters “USDOT” is displayed in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section; and


(iii) The rental agreement or lease as applicable entered into by the lessor and the renting motor carrier or lessee conspicuously contains the following information:


(A) The name and complete physical address of the principal place of business of the renting motor carrier or lessee;


(B) The identification number issued to the renting motor carrier or lessee by FMCSA, preceded by the letters “USDOT,” if the motor carrier has been issued such a number. In lieu of the identification number required in this paragraph, the following information may be shown in a rental agreement:


(*1*) Whether the motor carrier is engaged in “interstate” or “intrastate” commerce; and


(*2*) Whether the renting motor carrier is transporting hazardous materials in the rented CMV;


(C) The sentence: “This lessor cooperates with all Federal, State, and local law enforcement officials nationwide to provide the identity of customers who operate this rental CMV”; and


(iv) The rental agreement or lease as applicable entered into by the lessor and the renting motor carrier or lessee is carried on the rental CMV or leased passenger-carrying CMV during the full term of the rental agreement or lease. See the property-carrying leasing regulations at 49 CFR part 376 and the passenger-carrying leasing regulations at subpart G of this part for information that should be included in all leasing documents.


(v) *Exception.* (A) The passenger-carrying CMV operating under the 48-hour emergency exception pursuant to § 390.403(a)(2) of this part does not need to comply with paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section, provided the lessor and lessee comply with the requirements of § 390.403(a)(2).


(B) A motor carrier operating a self-propelled CMV under a lease subject to subpart G of this part (§§ 390.401 and 390.403) must begin complying with this paragraph (e) on January 1, 2021. 


(f) *Driveaway services.* In driveaway services, a removable device may be affixed on both sides or at the rear of a single driven vehicle. In a combination driveaway operation, the device may be affixed on both sides of any one unit or at the rear of the last unit. The removable device must display the legal name or a single trade name of the motor carrier and the motor carrier's USDOT number. 


(g) *Intermodal equipment.* (1) The requirements for marking intermodal equipment apply to each intermodal equipment provider, as defined in § 390.5, that interchanges or offers for interchange intermodal equipment to a motor carrier.


(2) Each unit of intermodal equipment interchanged or offered for interchange to a motor carrier by an intermodal equipment provider subject to subchapter B of this chapter must identify the intermodal equipment provider.


(3) The intermodal equipment provider must be identified by its legal name or a single trade name and the identification number issued by FMCSA, preceded by the letters “USDOT.”


(4) The intermodal equipment must be identified as follows, using any one of the following methods:


(i) The identification marking must appear on the curb side of the item of equipment. It must be in letters that contrast sharply in color with the background on which the letters are placed. The letters must be readily legible, during daylight hours, from a distance of 50 feet (15.24 meters) while the CMV is stationary; and be kept and maintained in a manner that retains this legibility; or


(ii) The identification marking must appear on a label placed upon the curb side of the item of equipment. The label must be readily visible and legible to an inspection official during daylight hours when the vehicle is stationary. The label must be a color that contrasts sharply with the background on which it is placed, and the letters must also contrast sharply in color with the background of the label. The label must be kept and maintained in a manner that retains this legibility; or


(iii) The USDOT number of the intermodal equipment provider must appear on the interchange agreement so that it is clearly identifiable to an inspection official. The interchange agreement must include additional information to identify the specific item of intermodal equipment (such as the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and 4-character Standard Carrier Alpha Code (SCAC) code and 6-digit unique identifying number); or


(iv) The identification marking must be shown on a document placed in a weathertight compartment affixed to the frame of the item of intermodal equipment. The color of the letters used in the document must contrast sharply in color with the background of the document. The document must include additional information to identify the specific item of intermodal equipment (such as the VIN and 4-character SCAC code and 6-digit unique identifying number).


(v) The USDOT number of the intermodal equipment provider is maintained in a database that is available via real-time internet and telephonic access. The database must:


(A) Identify the name and USDOT number of the intermodal equipment provider responsible for the intermodal equipment, in response to an inquiry that includes:


(*i*) SCAC plus trailing digits, or


(*ii*) License plate number and State of license, or


(*iii*) VIN of the item of intermodal equipment.


(B) Offer read-only access for inquiries on individual items of intermodal equipment, without requiring advance user registration, a password, or a usage fee.



---

[N] [65 FR 35296, June 2, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 76821, Dec. 17, 2008; 74 FR 68708, Dec. 29, 2009; 77 FR 59827, Oct. 1, 2012; 78 FR 58482, Sept. 24, 2013; 80 FR 30178, May 27, 2015; 80 FR 63712, Oct. 21, 2015; 84 FR 40294, Aug. 14, 2019]


