# § 721.11436   Halogenated alkylbenzoic acid, ethyl ester (generic) (P-19-102).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as halogenated alkylbenzoic acid, ethyl ester (PMN P-19-102) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i) through (iii), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Skin irritation; respiratory complications; central nervous system effects; internal organ effects; reproductive effects; developmental effects; eye irritation. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (q). It is a significant new use to manufacture or process the substance without including the engineering controls/processes described in the premanufacture notice.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=14.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46150, Aug. 18, 2021]




