# § 744.16   Entity List.

The Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) identifies persons or addresses of persons reasonably believed to be involved, or to pose a significant risk of being or becoming involved, in activities contrary to the national security or foreign policy interests of the United States. The entries are added to the Entity List pursuant to sections of part 744 (Control Policy: End-User and End-Use Based) and part 746 (Embargoes and Other Special Controls) of the EAR.




(a) *License requirements.* In addition to the license requirements for items specified on the CCL, you may not, without a license from BIS, export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) any items included in the License Requirement column of an entry on the Entity List (supplement no. 4 to this part) when an entity associated with that entry or when any entity using an address of high diversion risk associated with that entry is a party to a transaction as described in § 748.5(c) through (f) of the EAR. The specific license requirement for each listed entity or address with high diversion risk is identified in the license requirement column on the Entity List in supplement no. 4 to this part.






(b) *License exceptions.* No license exceptions are available for exports, reexports or transfers (in-country) to listed entities or addresses that present a high diversion risk of specified items, except license exceptions for items listed in § 740.2(a)(5) of the EAR destined to listed Indian or Pakistani entities to ensure the safety of civil aviation and safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft, and in the case of entities added to the Entity List pursuant to § 744.20, to the extent specified on the Entity List.




(c) *License review policy*—(1) *General review policy.* The license review policy for each listed entity or address that presents a high diversion risk is identified in the License Review Policy column on the Entity List.




(2) [Reserved]


(d) *The End-User Review Committee (ERC).* The End-User Review Committee (ERC), composed of representatives of the Departments of Commerce (Chair), State, Defense, Energy and, where appropriate, the Treasury, generally makes decisions regarding additions to, removals from, or other modifications to the Entity List.


(e) *Removal or modification requests.* Any entity listed on the Entity List or the owner or operator of any address that presents a high diversion risk listed on the Entity List may request that its listing be removed or modified. All such requests, including reasons therefor, must be in writing and sent to: Chair, End-User Review Committee, Bureau of Industry and Security, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Room 3886, Washington, DC 20230.




(1) *Review.* The ERC will review such requests in accordance with the procedures set forth in Supplement No. 5 to this part.


(2) *BIS action.* The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Export Administration will convey the decision on the request to the requester in writing. That decision will be the final agency action on the request.


(f) *Addresses that present a high diversion risk.* In limited circumstances, such as when multiple entities on the Entity List use the same address, or the name of an entity at a particular address is unknown to BIS, BIS may determine that such an address presents a high risk of diversion and publish the address on the Entity List without an associated entity name. These entries will apply license requirements, license review policies, and restrictions on the use of license exceptions for all entities using that address. When submitting a license application, the applicant should name the specific entity on the application. In the license application field for additional information, the applicant should state that the address is on the Entity List.







---

[N] [81 FR 64695, Sept. 20, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 55250, Sept. 9, 2022; 89 FR 51652, June 18, 2024; 89 FR 58273, July 18, 2024; 89 FR 60303, July 25, 2024] 




