# § 203.43c   Eligibility of mortgages involving a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development.

A mortgage involving a dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development which meets the requirements of this subpart, except as modified by this section, shall be eligible for insurance under section 203(n) of the National Housing Act.


(a) The provisions of §§ 203.16a, 203.17, 203.18, 203.18a, 203.23, 203.24, 203.26, 203.37, 203.38, 203.43h, 203.43i, 203.43j, 203.44, 203.49, and 203.50 of this part do not apply to mortgages insured under section 203(n) of the National Housing Act.


(b) As used in connection with the insurance of mortgages under this section and § 203.437 of this part: (1) The term *mortgage* shall mean a first lien given to secure a loan made to finance the unpaid purchase price of a Corporate Certificate together with the applicable Occupancy Certificate of a cooperative ownership housing corporation in which the permanent occupancy of the dwelling units is restricted to members of such corporation, and may refer both to a security instrument creating a lien, whether called a *mortgage, deed of trust, security deed* or another term used in a particular jurisdiction, as well as the credit instrument, or note, secured thereby.


(2) *Corporation* shall mean an organization which holds title to a cooperative housing development which is covered by a blanket mortgage or mortgages insured by FHA under the National Housing Act.


(3) *Corporate Certificate* shall mean such stock certificates, membership certificates, or other instruments which the laws of the jurisdictions in which the cooperative housing development is located require to evidence ownership of a specified interest in the corporation.


(4) *Occupancy Certificate* shall mean a written instrument provided by the corporation to each holder of a Corporate Certificate which grants an exclusive right of possession of a specific dwelling unit in the cooperative housing development.


(5) References in this subpart to a dwelling, residence or property which is sold, conveyed, covered by a mortgage or subject to a lien shall be construed to mean the Corporate Certificate together with the Occupancy Certificate, except that where such references when interpreted in light of section 203(n) of the National Housing Act clearly indicate the intent to be the dwelling unit, such reference shall mean the dwelling unit identified in the Occupancy Certificate. 


(c) The organizational documents of the cooperative corporation must provide that: (1) Either the Secretary or a mortgagee under a mortgage insured under this section shall be a member of the cooperative corporation for so long as either owns a Corporate Certificate;


(2) A mortgage insured under this section shall be a first lien upon the property covered by the mortgage;


(3) The Secretary may exercise the voting rights which are attributable to each Corporate Certificate owned by the Secretary;


(4) The Secretary may designate as her proxy an agent for the purpose of exercising the voting rights of the Secretary which are attributable to the corporate Certificate or Certificates owned by the Secretary; 


(5) The Secretary may cease making monthly payments attributable to any dwelling unit for which the Secretary owns a Corporate Certificate six months after the Secretary notifies the corporation to sell the Corporate Certificate or upon default by the corporation on the blanket mortgage covering the dwelling unit;


(6) The Secretary or a mortgagee shall not be obligated to make payments to the corporation for any amounts unpaid by a mortgagor under a mortgage insured under this section prior to the date the Secretary or the mortgagee becomes the owner of the Corporate Certificate. 


(d) The corporation shall have entered into an agreement with the Secretary and the mortgagee which: (1) Requires that the corporation shall furnish the Secretary with the most recent annual financial report certified to have been based on generally accepted accounting principles and the most recent monthly or quarterly financial report;


(2) Waives any option or right of first refusal the corporation may have to purchase any Corporate Certificate covered by a mortgage insured under section 203(n) of the National Housing Act, unless the corporation pays the full amount due under such mortgage or pays the full amount of the Secretary's investment if the Secretary is the owner of the Corporate Certificate, whichever is greater.


(3) Except with the approval of the Secretary, waives all authority the corporation may have to approve or reject the buyer of a Corporate Certificate owned by the Secretary or the buyer of a Corporate Certificate covered by a mortgage insured under Section 203(n) of the National Housing Act.


(4) Requires the corporation on notice by the Secretary to act as her agent for a fee to be determined by the Secretary for the limited purposes of:


(i) Selling all Corporate Certificates of the corporation owned by the Secretary;


(ii) Renting and collecting rents on any dwelling unit for which the Secretary owns the Corporate Certificate.


(5) Provides that the Secretary shall not be obligated to make payments to the corporation for outstanding debts of the mortgagor;


(6) Requires the corporation to furnish to a mortgagee or to the Secretary, on request:


(i) A statement, certified by the officer charged with maintenance of the Corporate Certificate Transfer Book, that such book currently shows that the mortgagee or the Secretary is the owner of any Corporate Certificate transferred to the mortgagee or the Secretary; and 


(ii) The Occupancy Certificate in the name of the mortgagee or the Secretary. 


(7) Requires the corporation to notify the mortgagee, whose name and address has been provided, of any default in corporation fee payments by the mortgagor within 15 days of such default; 


(8) Requires the mortgagee to notify the corporation of any default in mortgage payments by the mortgagor within 15 days of such default; 


(9) Requires the corporation upon notice by the Secretary or the mortgagee, when the Secretary or the mortgagee is the owner of the Corporate Certificate, and for a fee to be determined by the Secretary to evict any person or persons from a dwelling unit identified in the Occupancy Certificate. 


(10) Contains such other provisions as the Secretary may require. 


(e) The mortgagee shall obtain such security and other undertakings as may be required to establish a first lien on the Corporate Certificate and the Occupancy Certificate under the laws of the State where the Cooperative Housing Development is located. 


(f) The mortgage involves a one-family dwelling unit in a cooperative housing development which is covered by a blanket mortgage or mortgages insured under the National Housing Act. 


(g) The mortgage shall not exceed the balance remaining after subtracting, from the amount determined under §§ 203.18(a), 203.18(g) and 203.18a of this part, an amount equal to the portion of the unpaid balance of the blanket mortgage covering the cooperative development which is attributable to the dwelling unit the mortgagor is entitled to occupy as of the date the mortgage is accepted for insurance.


(h) The mortgage shall be executed upon a form conforming to the applicable provisions of this part and shall: 


(1) Involve a principal obligation in multiples of $50. 


(2) Come due on the first of the month. 


(3) Contain complete amortization provisions satisfactory to the Secretary and an amortization period not in excess of the term of the mortgage.


(4) Be for a term not to exceed 30 years or the remaining term of the blanket mortgage covering the cooperative development or three-quarters of the remaining economic life of the building improvements, whichever is less. 


(5) Provide for payments to principal and interest to begin not later than the first day of the month following 60 days from the date the mortgagee's certificate on the commitment was executed. 


(6) Contain a provision stating that the failure of the mortgagor to pay the mortgagor's share of the common expenses or assessments and charges imposed by the corporation as provided in the instruments establishing the cooperative shall be considered a default. 


(i) The entire principal amount of the mortgage must have been disbursed to the mortgagor or to his creditors for his account and with his consent. 


(j) The mortgage must be executed by a mortgagor who intends to be an occupant of the unit.


(k) The mortgagee shall collect from the mortgagor upon the execution of the mortgage: (1) A sum that will be sufficient to pay the mortgage insurance premium for the period beginning on the date of the closing of the loan and ending on the date of the first monthly payment under the mortgage or (2), where applicable, the one-time mortgage insurance premium payable pursuant to § 203.280.


(l) The mortgagee shall upon application for a mortgage insurance commitment provide true copies of the following organizational documents of the cooperative corporation for examination and approval by the appropriate HUD Field Office:


(1) Certificate of Incorporation;


(2) Regulatory Agreement;


(3) By-Laws as amended;


(4) The financial statements required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section;


(5) Proposed Occupancy Certificate;


(6) Proposed Corporate Certificate;



---

[N] [42 FR 40431, Aug. 10, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 29278, May 2, 1980; 45 FR 76377, Nov. 18, 1980; 48 FR 12085, Mar. 23, 1983; 48 FR 28804, June 23, 1983; 49 FR 23584, June 6, 1984; 52 FR 48201, Dec. 21, 1987; 53 FR 8881, Mar. 18, 1988; 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988; 53 FR 34282, Sept. 6, 1988; 56 FR 24631, May 30, 1991; 58 FR 41002, July 30, 1993] 




