# § 210.14   Resource management.

(a) *Nonprofit school food service.* School food authorities shall maintain a nonprofit school food service. Revenues received by the nonprofit school food service are to be used only for the operation or improvement of such food service, *except that,* such revenues shall not be used to purchase land or buildings, unless otherwise approved by FNS, or to construct buildings. Expenditures of nonprofit school food service revenues shall be in accordance with the financial management system established by the State agency under § 210.19(a) of this part. School food authorities may use facilities, equipment, and personnel supported with nonprofit school food revenues to support a nonprofit nutrition program for the elderly, including a program funded under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 *et seq.*).


(b) *Net cash resources.* The school food authority shall limit its net cash resources to an amount that does not exceed 3 months average expenditures for its nonprofit school food service or such other amount as may be approved by the State agency in accordance with § 210.19(a).


(c) *Financial assurances.* The school food authority shall meet the requirements of the State agency for compliance with § 210.19(a) including any separation of records of nonprofit school food service from records of any other food service which may be operated by the school food authority as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Use of donated foods.* The school food authority shall enter into an agreement with the distributing agency to receive donated foods as required by part 250 of this chapter. In addition, the school food authority shall accept and use, in as large quantities as may be efficiently utilized in its nonprofit school food service, such foods as may be offered as a donation by the Department. The school food authority's policies, procedures, and records must account for the receipt, full value, proper storage and use of donated foods.


(e) *Pricing paid lunches.* For each school year, school food authorities must establish prices for paid lunches in accordance with this paragraph (e).


(1) *Calculation procedures.* Each school food authority shall:


(i) Determine the average price of paid lunches. The average shall be determined based on the total number of paid lunches claimed for the month of October in the previous school year, at each different price charged by the school food authority.


(ii) Calculate the difference between the per meal Federal reimbursement for paid and free lunches received by the school food authority in the previous school year (*i.e.,* the reimbursement difference);


(iii) Compare the average price of a paid lunch under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to the difference between reimbursement rates under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) *Average paid lunch price is equal to/greater than the reimbursement difference.* When the average paid lunch price from the prior school year is equal to or greater than the difference in reimbursement rates as determined in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the school food authority shall establish an average paid lunch price for the current school year that is not less than the difference identified in (e)(1)(iii) of this section; except that, the school food authority may use the procedure in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section when establishing prices of paid lunches.


(3) *Average lunch price is lower than the reimbursement difference.* When the average price from the prior school year is lower than the difference in reimbursement rates as determined in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, the school food authority shall establish an average price for the current school year that is not less than the average price charged in the previous school year as adjusted by a percentage equal to the sum obtained by adding:


(i) 2 percent; and


(ii) The percentage change in the Consumers Price Index for All Urban Consumers used to increase the Federal reimbursement rate under section 11 of the Act for the most recent school year for which data are available. The percentage to be used is found in the annual notice published in the _Federal Register_ announcing the national average payment rates, from the prior year.


(4) *Price Adjustments.* (i) *Maximum required price increase.* The maximum annual average price increase required under this paragraph shall not exceed ten cents.


(ii) *Rounding of paid lunch prices.* Any school food authority may round the adjusted price of the paid lunches down to the nearest five cents.


(iii) *Optional price increases.* A school food authority may increase the average price by more than ten cents.


(5) *Reduction in average price for paid lunches.* (i) Any school food authority may reduce the average price of paid lunches as established under this paragraph if the State agency ensures that funds are added to the nonprofit school food service account in accordance with this paragraph.


The minimum that must be added is the product of:


(A) The number of paid lunches claimed by the school food authority in the previous school year multiplied by


(B) The amount required under paragraph (e)(3) of this section, as adjusted under paragraph (e)(4) of this section, minus the average price charged.


(ii) *Prohibitions.* The following shall not be used to reduce the average price charged for paid lunches:


(A) Federal sources of revenue;


(B) Revenue from foods sold in competition with lunches or with breakfasts offered under the School Breakfast Program authorized in 7 CFR part 220. Requirements concerning foods sold in competition with lunches or breakfasts are found in § 210.11 and § 220.12 of this chapter, respectively;


(C) In-kind contributions;


(D) Any in-kind contributions converted to direct cash expenditures; and


(E) Per-meal reimbursements (non-Federal) specifically provided for support of programs other than the school lunch program.


(iii) *Allowable non-Federal revenue sources.* Any contribution that is for the direct support of paid lunches that is not prohibited under paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of this section may be used as revenue for this purpose. Such contributions include, but are not limited to:


(A) Per-lunch reimbursements for paid lunches provided by State or local governments;


(B) Funds provided by organizations, such as school-related or community groups, to support paid lunches;


(C) Any portion of State revenue matching funds that exceeds the minimum requirement, as provided in § 210.17, and is provided for paid lunches; and


(D) A proportion attributable to paid lunches from direct payments made from school district funds to support the lunch service.


(6) *Additional considerations.* (i) In any given year, if a school food authority with an average price lower than the reimbursement difference is not required by paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section to increase its average price for paid lunches, the school food authority shall use the unrounded average price as the basis for calculations to meet paragraph (e)(3) of this section for the next school year.


(ii) If a school food authority has an average price lower than the reimbursement difference and chooses to increase its average price for paid lunches in any school year more than is required by this section, the amount attributable to the additional voluntary increase may be carried forward to the next school year(s) to meet the requirements of this section.


(7) *Reporting lunch prices.* In accordance with guidelines provided by FNS:


(i) School food authorities shall report prices charged for paid lunches to the State agency; and


(ii) State agencies shall report these prices to FNS.


(f) *Revenue from nonprogram foods.* School food authorities must ensure that the revenue generated from the sale of nonprogram foods complies with the requirements in this paragraph (f).


(1) *Definition of nonprogram foods.* For the purposes of this paragraph, nonprogram foods are those foods and beverages:


(i) Sold in a participating school other than reimbursable meals and meal supplements; and


(ii) Purchased using funds from the nonprofit school food service account.


(2) *Revenue from nonprogram foods.* The proportion of total revenue from the sale of nonprogram foods to total revenue of the school food service account shall be equal to or greater than:


(i) The proportion of total food costs associated with obtaining nonprogram foods to


(ii) The total costs associated with obtaining program and nonprogram foods from the account.


(3) All revenue from the sale of nonprogram foods shall accrue to the nonprofit school food service account of a participating school food authority.


(g) *Indirect costs.* School food authorities must follow fair and consistent methodologies to identify and allocate allowable indirect costs to the nonprofit school food service account, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 as implemented by 2 CFR part 400.



---

[N] [53 FR 29147, Aug. 2, 1988, as amended at 60 FR 31215, June 13, 1995; 76 FR 35316, June 17, 2011; 81 FR 50185, July 29, 2016; 89 FR 32073, Apr. 25, 2024]






