# ยง 140.96   Delegation of authority to publish in the Federal Register.

(a) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's designee, or the Director of the Division of Data or the Director's designee, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, the authority to publish in the _Federal Register_ notice of the availability for comment of the proposed terms and conditions of applications for contract market designation, swap execution facility and swap data repository registration, and to determine to publish, and to publish, requests for public comment on proposed exchange, swap execution facility, or swap data repository rules, and rule amendments, when there exists novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, an inadequate explanation by the submitting registered entity, or a potential inconsistency with the Act, including regulations under the Act.


(b) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director's designee, and to the Director of the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director's designee, and to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director's designee, with the concurrence of the General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee, the authority to determine to publish, and to publish, in the _Federal Register,_ requests for public comment on proposed rule amendments by a derivatives clearing organization, designated contract market, swap data repository, swap execution facility, or registered futures association when publication of the proposed rule amendment is in the public interest and will assist the Commission in considering the views of interested persons.


(c) The Director of the Division of Market Oversight or the Director of the Market Participants Division or the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or the Director of the Division of Data may submit any matter which has been delegated to such Director under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section to the Commission for its consideration.


(d) Nothing in this section may prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the Director of the Division of Market Oversight or to the Director of the Market Participants Division or to the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk or to the Director of the Division of Data under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [50 FR 47532, Nov. 19, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 35897, Sept. 4, 1990; 57 FR 20638, May 14, 1992; 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 7 FR 66347, Nov. 2, 2012; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013]




