# ยง 457.555   Maximum allowable cost-sharing charges on targeted low-income children in families with income from 101 to 150 percent of the FPL.

(a) *Non-institutional services.* For targeted low-income children whose household income is from 101 to 150 percent of the FPL, the State plan must provide that for non-institutional services, including emergency services, the following requirements must be met:


(1)(i) For Federal FY 2009, any co-payment or similar charge the State imposes under a fee-for-service delivery system may not exceed the amounts shown in the following table:


(ii) Thereafter, any copayments may not exceed these amounts as updated each October 1 by the percentage increase in the medical care component of the CPI-U for the period of September to September ending in the preceding calendar year and then rounded to the next higher 5-cent increment.


(2) For Federal FY 2009, any co-payment that the State imposes for services provided by a managed care organization may not exceed $5.70 per visit. In succeeding years, any copayment may not exceed this amount as updated each October 1 by the percentage increase in the medical care component of the CPI-U for the period of September to September ending in the preceding calendar year and then rounded to the next higher 5-cent increment.


(3) Any coinsurance rate the State imposes may not exceed 5 percent of the payment the State directly or through contract makes for the service; and 


(4) For Federal FY 2009, any deductible the State imposes may not exceed $3.40 per month, per family for each period of eligibility. Thereafter, any deductible may not exceed this amount as updated each October 1 by the percentage increase in the medical care component of the CPI-U for the period of September to September ending in the preceding calendar year and then rounded to the next higher 5-cent increment. 


(b) *Institutional services.* For targeted low-income children whose household income is from 101 to 150 percent of the FPL, the maximum deductible, coinsurance or copayment charge for each institutional admission may not exceed 50 percent of the payment the State would make under the Medicaid fee-for-service system for the first day of care in the institution. 


(c) *Institutional emergency services.* For Federal FY 2009, any copayment that the State imposes on emergency services provided by an institution may not exceed $5.70. Thereafter, any copayment may not exceed this amount as updated each October 1 by the percentage increase in the medical care component of the CPI-U for the period of September to September ending in the preceding calendar year and then rounded to the next higher 5-cent increment.


(d) *Non-emergency use of the emergency room.* For Federal FY 2009, for targeted low-income children whose household income is from 101 to 150 percent of the FPL, the State may charge up to twice the charge for non-institutional services, up to a maximum amount of $11.35 for services furnished in a hospital emergency room if those services are not emergency services as defined in ยง 457.10. Thereafter, any charge may not exceed this amount as updated each October 1 by the percentage increase in the medical care component of the CPI-U for the period of September to September ending in the preceding calendar year and then rounded to the next higher 5-cent increment. 


(e) *Standard copayment amount.* For targeted low-income children whose household income is from 101 to 150 percent of the FPL, a standard copayment amount for any service may be determined by applying the maximum copayment amounts specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section to the State's average or typical payment for that service. 



---

[N] [66 FR 2681, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 71854, Nov. 25, 2008; 75 FR 30265, May 28, 2010]




