# ยง 110.23   Assurances required.

(a) *Assurances.* An applicant for Federal financial assistance to which these regulations apply shall sign a written assurance, on a form specified by ED, that the program or activity will be operated in compliance with these regulations. An applicant may incorporate this assurance by reference in subsequent applications to ED. 


(b) *Duration of obligation.* (1) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended in the form of real property or to provide real property or structures on the property, the assurance will obligate the recipient or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for the purpose for which Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. 


(2) In the case of Federal financial assistance extended to provide personal property, the assurance will obligate the recipient for the period during which it retains ownership or possession of the property. 


(3) In all other cases the assurance will obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended. 


(c) *Covenants.* (1) If Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from ED, the instrument effecting or recording this transfer must contain a covenant running with the land to assure nondiscrimination for the period during which the real property is used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. 


(2) If no transfer of property is involved but property is purchased or improved with Federal financial assistance, the recipient shall agree to include the covenant described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section in the instrument effecting or recording any subsequent transfer of the property. 


(3) If Federal financial assistance is provided in the form of real property or interest in the property from ED, the covenant must also include a condition coupled with a right to be reserved by ED to revert title to the property in the event of a breach of the covenant. If a transferee of real property proposes to mortgage or otherwise encumber the real property as security for financing construction of new, or improvement of existing, facilities on the property for the purposes for which the property was transferred, ED may, upon request of the transferee and if necessary to accomplish that financing and upon conditions that ED deems appropriate, agree to forbear the exercise of the right to revert title for as long as the lien of the mortgage or other encumbrance remains effective. 



---

[N] [58 FR 40197, July 27, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 68057, Nov. 13, 2000]




