# § 30.1   Gauging of distilled spirits.

(a) *General.* This part relates to the gauging of distilled spirits. The term “gauging” means the determination of the proof and the quantity of distilled spirits. The procedures prescribed in or authorized under the provisions of this part, except as may be otherwise authorized in this chapter, shall be followed in making any determination of quantity or proof of distilled spirits required by or under the authority of regulations in this chapter. The tables referred to in subpart E of this part appear in the “Gauging Manual Embracing Instructions and Tables for Determining Quantity of Distilled Spirits by Proof and Weight” as incorporated by reference in this part (see paragraph (c) of this section). These tables, together with their instructions, shall be used, wherever applicable, in making the necessary computations from gauge data.


(b) *Tables referred to in subpart E of this part.* Table 1 provides a method of correcting hydrometer indications at temperatures between 0 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit to true proof. If distilled spirits contain dissolved solids, temperature correction of the hydrometer reading by the use of this table would result in apparent proof rather than true proof. Tables 2 and 3 show the gallonage of spirituous liquor according to weight and proof. Table 4 shows the gallons per pound at each one-tenth proof from 1 to 200 proof. Table 5 shows the weight per wine gallon and proof gallon at each proof. Table 6 shows the volumes of alcohol and water and the specific gravity (air and vacuum) of spirituous liquor at each proof. Table 7 provides a means of ascertaining the volume (at 60 degree Fahrenheit) of spirits at various temperatures ranging from 18 degrees through 100 degrees Fahrenheit.


(c) *Incorporation by reference.* The “Gauging Manual Embracing Instructions and Tables for Determining Quantity of Distilled Spirits by Proof and Weight” (Publication 5110.6; November 1978) is incorporated by reference in this part. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on March 23, 1981. This publication may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), and is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:*https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*. 



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8535, Mar. 1, 1985, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87946, Nov. 6, 2024]






