# § 282.69   Maine State-Administered Program.

(a) The State of Maine is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The State's program, as administered by the Maine Department Environmental Protection (ME DEP), was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281. EPA approved the Maine program on June 11, 1992, which was effective on July 13, 1992.


(b) Maine has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under Sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) To retain program approval, Maine must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program which makes it more stringent, in accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Maine obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to Section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notification of any change will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) Maine has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved effective July 13, 1992, and the program revision application approved by EPA, except as it relates to USTs on Indian lands, effective on December 2, 2019.


(1) *State statutes and regulations*—(i) *Incorporation by reference*. The material cited in this paragraph (d)(1)(i), and listed in appendix A to this part, is incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* (See § 282.2 for incorporation by reference approval and inspection information.) You may obtain copies of the Maine regulations and statutes that are incorporated by reference in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) from the Staff to the Board of Underground Storage Tank Installers, Maine DEP, 17 SHS, Augusta, ME 04333-0017; Phone number: 207-287-7688; Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; website for statutes and regulations: *https://www.maine.gov/dep/waste/ust/lawsrules.html*.


(A) “Maine Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, September 2018.”


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Legal basis.* EPA evaluated the following statutes and regulations which are part of the approved program, but they are not being incorporated by reference for enforcement purposes, and do not replace Federal authorities:


(A) The statutory provisions include:


(*1*) *Maine Revised Statutes, Title 4: Judiciary; Chapter* 5: *District Court;* Section 152. District court, Civil jurisdiction; 6-A N. All laws administered by the Department of Environmental Protection.


(*2*) *Maine Revised Statutes, Title 14: Court Procedure—Civil, Chapter 711: Equity Proceedings*.


(*3*) *Maine Revised Statutes, Title 17: Crimes, Chapter 91: Nuisances,* Section 2794. Dumping of oil.


(*4*) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 2. Department of Environmental Protection, Subchapter 1. Organization and Powers,* Section 342.7. Representation in court, Section 342.11-B. Revoke or suspend licenses and permits, Section 346. Judicial appeals, Section 347-A. Violations, Section 348. Judicial enforcement, and Section 349. Penalties.


(*5*) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 3. Protection and Improvement of Waters, Subchapter 2-A. Oil Discharge Prevention and Pollution Control,* Section 550. Enforcement, Penalties.


(*6*) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 3. Protection and Improvement of Waters, Subchapter 2-B. Oil Storage Facilities and Ground Water Protection,* Section 565-A. Authority to prohibit product delivery; Section 568.3. Issuance of clean-up orders; Section 568.4. Enforcement, penalties, punitive damages, Section 570-C. Municipal ordinances, powers limited.


(*7*) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 13-D: Wellhead Protection,* Section 1397. Enforcement.


(B) The regulatory provisions include:


(*1*) *06-096, Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Chapter 691, Rule for Underground Oil Storage Facilities:* 4.O. Registration of Underground Oil Storage Facilities; 5.D.(11)(e) Leak or discharge reporting requirements; 12.A.(3) Discharge and leak investigation, response and corrective action; 14. Severability.


(*2*) *The Maine Rules of Civil Procedure,* Rule 24. Intervention, Rule 80K. Land Use Violations.


(iii) *Provisions not incorporated by reference.* The following specifically identified statutory and regulatory provisions applicable to the Maine's UST program are broader in scope than the Federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference herein for enforcement purposes:


(A) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 3. Protection and Improvement of Waters, Subchapter 2-A. Oil Discharge Prevention and Pollution Control:* Section 551. Maine Ground and Surface Waters Clean-up and Response Fund;


(B) *Maine Revised Statutes Annotated, Title 38. Waters and Navigation, Chapter 3. Protection and Improvement of Waters, Subchapter 2-B. Oil Storage Facilities and Ground Water Protection:* Section 563. 9. Annual compliance inspection.; Section 564. 5. Mandatory for replacement.; Section 565. Regulation of underground oil storage facilities used for consumption on the premises or by the owner or operator; Section 566-A. 5. Abandonment of underground oil storage facilities and tanks; Section 567. Certification of underground tank installers; Section 570-I. Budget approval;


(C) *06-096, Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Chapter 691, Rule for Underground Oil Storage Facilities:* 5.B.(4)(a), (d), (g), (h), and (j) General facility installation requirements; 5.B.(5)(b) Installation requirements for new and replacement tanks; 5.D.(3)(f) Operation and Monitoring Requirements for Galvanic Cathodic Protection Systems; 5.D.(6)(b) Overfill and spill prevention; 5.D.(14)(c) Repairs other than relining; 5.D.(15)(f) (vii) Financial responsibility requirements; 5.D.(17) Annual compliance inspection requirements; 5.D.(19)(b) Safe excavation requirements; 5.F. Mandatory facility closure upon expiration of warranty; 6. Regulation of heating oil facilities used for consumption on the premises or by the owner or operator; 7.B.(7) Design and installation standards for new and replacement facilities; 8.B.(1)(d) and (e) Design and installation requirements for new and replacement tanks, 8.B.(4)(b), (d), and (e) General installation requirements, 9.B.(4) Installation requirements for new and replacement heavy oil facilities, 10.B.(1)(c) General design and construction requirements, 10.B.(3)(b), (f), and (h) General installation requirements, and 10.D.(2) Operation, maintenance, testing and inspection requirements for new, replacement and existing systems.


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* The Attorney General's Statements, signed by the Attorney General of Maine on December 5, 1991, and October 12, 2018, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Demonstration of Procedures for Adequate Enforcement” submitted as part of the original application on November 27, 1991, and as part of the program revision application for approval on October 13, 2018 though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program description.* The program description and any other material submitted as part of the original application on November 27, 1991, and as part of the program revision application on October 13, 2018, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 1 and the Maine Department of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on November 21, 2018 though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [84 FR 52789, Oct. 3, 2019]




