# ยง 761.15   Aircraft: Individual authorizations.

(a) *Special procedures.* In addition to the entry authorization to enter or navigate within the defense area concerned, certain special procedures must be followed by aircraft:


(1) If landing at U.S. naval aviation facilities, an Aviation Facility License must be obtained, in accordance with Secretary of the Navy Instruction 3770.1B, Use of Department of the Navy aviation facilities by other than United States Department of Defense aircraft.


(2) If landing at U.S. Air Force aviation facilities, a Civil Aircraft Landing Permit must be obtained, in accordance with Department of the Airforce Regulation 55-20, Use of United States Air Force installations by other than United States Department of Defense aircraft.


(3) Foreign public aircraft must obtain diplomatic clearance or clearance under applicable special agreements or treaties.


(b) *Application; Form; Filing.* Applications for authorization to navigate aircraft within the limits of defense areas shall be made by letter or telegram addressed to the appropriate entry control commander as indicated in ยง 761.9 with information copies to the Chief of Naval Operations, Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic (or Pacific) Fleet, as appropriate, and other local commanders who are known to be concerned. Applications shall include the following:


(1) Type and serial number of aircraft (the number of aircraft in flight if a mass movement is involved), nationality and name of registered owner.


(2) Name and rank of senior pilot.


*
(3) Number in crew.


*(4) Number of passengers and whether military or civilian; include name (and rank) of distinguished passengers.


(5) Purpose of flight.


(6) Plan of flight route, including:


(i) Point of origin of flight and its destination.


(ii) Estimated date and times of arrival and departure at all airspaces covered by this part 761 including stops within the Trust Territory, when pertinent.


(7) Radio call signs of aircraft and radio frequencies available.


(8) Whether cameras are to be carried and whether they will be used.


*(9) Whether arms are to be carried.


*(10) Whether authorization to land as indicated in ยง 761.15(a) has been obtained.


(c) *Processing.* Authorization for individual entries or for multiple entries for a period not to exceed three months may be granted by an Entry Control Commander. Authorizations for multiple entries over a period to exceed three months and applications for group authorizations must be forwarded to the Chief of Naval Operations with appropriate comments and recommendations.



---

[N] [41 FR 28958, July 14, 1976]




