# § 450.189   Ground safety prescribed hazard controls.

(a) *General.* In addition to the hazard controls derived from an operator's ground hazard analysis and toxic hazard analysis, an operator must comply with paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) *Protection of public on the site.* An operator must document a process for protecting members of the public who enter any area under the control of a launch or reentry operator, including:


(1) Procedures for identifying and tracking the public while on the site; and


(2) Methods the operator uses to protect the public from hazards in accordance with the ground hazard analysis and toxic hazard analysis.


(c) *Countdown abort.* Following a countdown abort or recycle operation, an operator must establish, maintain, and perform procedures for controlling hazards related to the vehicle and returning the vehicle, stages, or other flight hardware and site facilities to a safe condition. When a launch vehicle does not liftoff after a command to initiate flight was sent, an operator must—


(1) Ensure that the vehicle and any payload are in a safe configuration;


(2) Prohibit entry of the public into any identified hazard areas until the site is returned to a safe condition; and


(3) Maintain and verify that any flight safety system remains operational until verification that the launch vehicle does not represent a risk of inadvertent flight.


(d) *Fire suppression.* An operator must have reasonable precautions in place to report and control any fire caused by licensed activities.


(e) *Emergency procedures.* An operator must have general emergency procedures that apply to any emergencies not covered by the mishap plan of § 450.173 that may create a hazard to the public.


(f) *Application requirement.* An applicant must submit the process for protecting members of the public who enter any area under the control of a launch or reentry operator in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.




