# § 21.7154   Pursuit and absences.

Except as provided in this section, an individual must submit a verification to VA each month of his or her enrollment during the period for which the individual is to be paid. This verification shall be in a form prescribed by the Secretary.


(a) *Exceptions to the monthly verification requirement.* An individual does not have to submit a monthly verification as described in the introductory text of this section when the individual—


(1) Is enrolled in a correspondence course;


(2) Has received a lump-sum payment for the training completed during a month; or


(3) Has received an advance payment for the training completed during a month.


(4) Has received an accelerated payment for the enrollment period.


(b) *Items to be reported on all monthly verifications.* (1) The monthly verification for all veterans and servicemembers will include a report on the following items when applicable:


(i) Continued enrollment in and actual pursuit of the course;


(ii) The individual's unsatisfactory conduct, progress, or attendance;


(iii) The date of interruption or termination of training;


(iv) Changes in the number of credit hours or in the number of clock hours of attendance other than those described in § 21.7156(a);


(v) Nonpunitive grades; and


(vi) Any other changes or modifications in the course as certified at enrollment.


(2) The verification of enrollment must—


(i) Contain the information required for release of payment;


(ii) If required or permitted by the Secretary to be submitted on paper, be signed by the veteran or servicemember on or after the final date of the reporting period, or if permitted by the Secretary to be submitted by telephone in a manner designated by the Secretary, be submitted in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary on or after the final date of the reporting period; and


(iii) If submitted on paper, clearly show the date on which it was signed.


(c) *Additional requirements for apprenticeships and other on-job training programs.* (1) When a veteran is pursuing an apprenticeship or other on-job training he or she must certify training monthly by reporting the number of hours worked.


(2) The information provided by the veteran must be verified by the training establishment.


(d) *Additional requirements for individuals receiving an accelerated payment.* (1) When an individual receives an accelerated payment as provided in § 21.7151(c) and (d), he or she must certify the following information within 60 days of the end of the term, quarter or semester (or entire program when the program is not offered on a term, quarter, or semester basis) for which the accelerated payment was made:


(i) The course or program was successfully completed, or if the course was not completed—


(A) The date the veteran or servicemember last attended; and


(B) An explanation why the course was not completed;


(ii) If the veteran or servicemember increased or decreased his or her training time—


(A) The date the veteran or servicemember increased or decreased training time; and


(B) The number of credit/clock hours pursued before and after each such change in training time; and


(iii) The accelerated payment was received and used.


(2) VA will establish an overpayment equal to the amount of the accelerated payment if the required certifications in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are not timely received.


(3) VA will determine the amount of the overpayment of benefits for courses not completed in the following manner—


(i) For a veteran or servicemember who does not complete the full course, courses, or program for which the accelerated payment was made, and who does not substantiate mitigating circumstances for not completing, VA will establish an overpayment equal to the amount of the accelerated payment.


(ii) For a veteran or servicemember who does not complete the full course, courses, or program for which the accelerated payment was made, but who substantiates mitigating circumstances for not completing, VA will prorate the amount of the accelerated payment to which he or she is entitled based on the number of days from the beginning date of the enrollment period through the date of last attendance. VA will determine the prorated amount by dividing the accelerated payment amount by the number of days in the enrollment period, and multiplying the result by the number of days from the beginning date of the enrollment period through the date of last attendance. The result of this calculation will equal the amount the individual is due. The difference between the accelerated payment and the amount the individual is due will be established as an overpayment.



---

[N] [55 FR 28390, July 11, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 15026, Apr. 24, 1992; 57 FR 24368, June 9, 1992; 61 FR 26117, May 24, 1996; 63 FR 14038, Mar. 24, 1998; 68 FR 35180, June 12, 2003]




