# ยง 308.172   Eligibility of applicants.

(a) *Genera1 rule.* To be eligible for an award under this subpart, an applicant must have been named or admitted as a party to the proceeding. In addition, the applicant must show that it meets all other conditions of eligibility set out in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) *Types of eligible applicant.* The types of eligible applicant are: 


(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2,000,000 at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated; or 


(2) Any owner of an unincorporated business, or any partnership, corporation, associations, unit of local government or organization, the net worth of which did not exceed $7,000,000 and which did not have more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated. 


(3) For purposes of an application filed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(4), a small entity as defined in 5 U.S.C. 601.


(c) *Factors to be considered.* In determining the types of eligible applicants: 


(1) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business shall be considered as an *individual* rather than a *sole owner of an unincorporated business* if the issues on which he or she prevails are related to personal interests rather than to business interests. 


(2) An applicant's net worth includes the value of any assets disposed of for the purpose of meeting an eligibility standard and excludes the value of any obligations incurred for this purpose. Transfers of assets or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value will be presumed to have been made for this purpose. 


(3) The net worth of a bank shall be established by the net worth information reported in conformity with applicable instructions and guidelines on the bank's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed for the last reporting date before the initiation of the adversary adjudication. 


(4) The employees of an applicant include all those persons who were regularly providing services for remuneration for the applicant, under its direction and control, on the date the adversary adjudication was initiated. Part-time employees are included as though they were full-time employees. 


(5) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. The aggregated net worth shall be adjusted if necessary to avoid counting the net worth of any entity twice. As used in this subpart, *affiliates* are individuals, corporations, and entities that directly or indirectly or acting through one or more entities control a majority of the voting shares of the applicant; and corporations and entities of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares. The Board of Directors may, however, on the recommendation of the administrative law judge, or otherwise, determine that such aggregation with regard to one or more of the applicant's affiliates would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of this subpart in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In such a case the net worth and employees of the relevant affiliate or affiliates will not be aggregated with those of the applicant. In addition, the Board of Directors may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust. 


(6) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award. 



---

[N] [56 FR 37975, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 62102, Nov. 16, 1999]




