# § 361.63   Program income.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, program income means gross income received by the State that is directly generated by a supported activity under this part or earned as a result of the Federal award during the period of performance, as defined in 2 CFR 200.80.


(b) *Sources.* Sources of program income include, but are not limited to: Payments from the Social Security Administration for assisting Social Security beneficiaries and recipients to achieve employment outcomes; payments received from workers' compensation funds; payments received by the State agency from insurers, consumers, or others for services to defray part or all of the costs of services provided to particular individuals; and income generated by a State-operated community rehabilitation program for activities authorized under this part.


(c) *Use of program income.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, program income, whenever earned, must be used for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services and the administration of the vocational rehabilitation services portion of the Unified or Combined State Plan. Program income—


(i) Is considered earned in the fiscal year in which it is received; and


(ii) Must be disbursed during the period of performance of the award.


(2) Payments provided to a State from the Social Security Administration for assisting Social Security beneficiaries and recipients to achieve employment outcomes may also be used to carry out programs under part B of title I of the Act (client assistance), title VI of the Act (supported employment), and title VII of the Act (independent living).


(3)(i) The State must use program income to supplement Federal funds that support program activities that are subject to this part. See, for example, 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).


(ii) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.305(a) and to the extent that program income funds are available, a State must disburse those funds (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional funds from the Department.


(4) Program income cannot be used to meet the non-Federal share requirement under § 361.60.


