# § 758.10   Entry clearance requirements for temporary imports.

(a) *Scope.* This section specifies the temporary import entry clearance requirements for firearms “subject to the EAR” that are on the United States Munitions Import List (USMIL, 27 CFR 447.21), except for firearms “subject to the EAR” that are temporarily brought into the United States by nonimmigrant aliens under the provisions of Department of Justice regulations at 27 CFR part 478 (*See* § 740.14(e) of the EAR for information on the export of these firearms “subject to the EAR”). These firearms are controlled in ECCNs 0A501.a or .b, 0A506 or 0A507, or shotguns with a barrel length less than 18 inches controlled in ECCNs 0A502 or 0A508. Items that are temporarily exported under the EAR must have met the export clearance requirements specified in § 758.1.


(1) An authorization under the EAR is *not* required for the temporary import of “items” that are “subject to the EAR,” including for “items” “subject to the EAR” that are on the USMIL. Temporary imports of firearms described in this section must meet the entry clearance requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Permanent imports are regulated by the Attorney General under the direction of the Department of Justice's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (see 28 CFR 0.130; 27 CFR parts 447, 478, 479, and 555).


(b) *EAR procedures for temporary imports and subsequent exports.* To the satisfaction of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the temporary importer must comply with the following procedures:


(1) At the time of entry into the U.S. of the temporary import:


(i) Provide one of the following statements specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section to U.S. Customs and Border Protection:


(A) “This shipment is being temporarily imported in accordance with the EAR. This shipment will be exported in accordance with and under the authority of License Exception TMP (15 CFR 740.9(b)(5));”


(B) “This shipment is being temporarily imported in accordance with the EAR. This shipment will be exported in accordance with and under the authority of License Exception RPL (15 CFR 740.10(b));” or


(C) “This shipment is being temporarily imported in accordance with the EAR. This shipment will be exported in accordance with and under the authority of BIS license number (provide the license number) (15 CFR 750.7(a) and 758.4);”


(ii) Provide to U.S. Customs and Border Protection an invoice or other appropriate import-related documentation (or electronic equivalents) that includes a complete list and description of the firearms being temporarily imported, including their model, make, caliber, serial numbers, quantity, and U.S. dollar value;


(iii) Provide (if temporarily imported for a trade show, exhibition, demonstration, or testing) to U.S. Customs and Border Protection the relevant invitation or registration documentation for the event and an accompanying letter that details the arrangements to maintain effective control of the firearms while they are in the United States; or


(iv) Provide (if temporarily imported for servicing or replacement) to U.S. Customs and Border Protection the name, address and contact information (telephone number and/or email) of the organization or individual in the U.S. that will be receiving the item for servicing or replacement).


(2) At the time of export, in accordance with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection procedures, the eligible exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must as required under § 758.1(b)(9) file the export information with CBP by filing EEI in AES, noting the applicable EAR authorization as the authority for the export, and provide, upon request by CBP, the entry document number or a copy of the CBP document under which the “item” subject to the EAR” on the USMIL was temporarily imported. *See* also the additional requirements in § 758.1(g)(4).



---

[N] [85 FR 4179, Jan. 23, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 34709, Apr. 30, 2024; 89 FR 40372, May 10, 2024]




