# § 1956.105   Definitions.

(a) *Settlement.* The compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or chargeoff of a debt owed to Rural Development. The term “settlement” is used for convenience in referring to compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or chargeoff actions, individually or collectively.


(b) *Compromise.* The satisfaction of a debt, including a release of liability, by the acceptance of a lump-sum payment of less than the total amount owed on the debt.


(c) *Adjustment.* The satisfaction of a debt, including a release of liability, when acceptance is conditioned upon completion of payment of the adjusted amount at a specific future time or times, with or without the payment of any consideration when the adjustment offer is approved. An adjustment is not a final settlement until all payments under the adjustment agreement have been made.


(d) *Cancellation.* The final discharge of a debt with a release of liability.


(e) *Chargeoff.* To write off a debt and terminate all servicing activity *without* a release of liability. This is not a final discharge of the debt, but rather a decision upon the part of the agency to remove the debt from agency receivables.


(f) *Debtor.* The borrower of loan funds under any of Rural Development programs specified in § 1956.101.


(g) *Security.* All that serves as collateral for Rural Development loan(s), including, but not limited to, revenues, tax levies, municipal bonds, and real and chattel property.


(h) *Servicing official.* The Rural Development official who is primarily responsible for servicing the account.


(i) *United States Attorney.* An attorney for the United States Department of Justice.


(j) *Independent Qualified Fee Appraiser.* An individual who is a designated member of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, Society of Real Estate Appraisers, or an equivalent organization, requiring appraisal education, testing, and experience.



---

[N] [53 FR 13100, Apr. 21, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 47510, Nov. 15, 1989; 66 FR 1569, Jan. 9, 2001; 80 FR 9901, Feb. 24, 2015]




