# ยง 86.41   Athletics.

(a) *General.* No person shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, be treated differently from another person or otherwise be discriminated against in any interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics offered by a recipient, and no recipient shall provide any such athletics separately on such basis. 


(b) *Separate teams.* Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient may operate or sponsor separate teams for members of each sex where selection for such teams is based upon competitive skill or the activity involved is a contact sport. However, where a recipient operates or sponsors a team in a particular sport for members of one sex but operates or sponsors no such team for members of the other sex, and athletic opportunities for members of that sex have previously been limited, members of the excluded sex must be allowed to try-out for the team offered unless the sport involved is a contact sport. For the purposes of this part, contact sports include boxing, wrestling, rugby, ice hockey, football, basketball and other sports the purpose of major activity of which involves bodily contact. 


(c) *Equal opportunity.* A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics shall provide equal athletic opportunity for members of both sexes. In determining whether equal opportunities are available the Director will consider, among other factors: 


(1) Whether the selection of sports and levels of competition effectively accommodate the interests and abilities of members of both sexes; 


(2) The provision of equipment and supplies; 


(3) Scheduling of games and practice time; 


(4) Travel and per diem allowance; 


(5) Opportunity to receive coaching and academic tutoring; 


(6) Assignment and compensation of coaches and tutors; 


(7) Provision of locker rooms, practice and competitive facilities; 


(8) Provision of medical and training facilities and services; 


(9) Provision of housing and dining facilities and services; 


(10) Publicity.


(d) *Adjustment period.* A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics at the elementary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than one year from the effective date of this regulation. A recipient which operates or sponsors interscholastic, intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics at the secondary or post-secondary school level shall comply fully with this section as expeditiously as possible but in no event later than three years from the effective date of this regulation. 



---

[N] [40 FR 24128, June 4, 1975; 40 FR 39506, Aug. 28, 1975] 




