# 511.404   Contract clauses.

(a) *Supplies or services.* (1) *Shelf-life items.* Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts that require delivery of shelf-life items within a specified timeframe from the date of manufacture or production:


(i) The clause at 552.211-79, Acceptable Age of Supplies, if the required shelf-life period is 12 months or less, and lengthy acceptance testing may be involved. For items having a limited shelf-life and when required by the program director, use the clause with its Alternate I.


(ii) The clause at 552.211-80, Age on Delivery, if the required shelf-life period is more than 12 months, or when source inspection can be performed within a short time period.


(2) *Stock replenishment contracts.* Insert the clause at 552.211-81, Time of Shipment, in solicitations and contracts when a stock replenishment contract is contemplated that does not include the clause at 552.211-83 and requires shipment within 45 calendar days after receipt of the order. Use the clause with its Alternate I if shipment is required after 45 days of receipt of the order.


(3) *Indeterminate testing time.* Insert the clause at 552.211-83, Availability for Inspection, Testing, and Shipment/Delivery, in solicitations and contracts that provide for source inspection by Government personnel and that require lengthy testing for which time frames cannot be determined in advance. Use the clause with its Alternate I if the contract is for stock items.


(4) *Stock program time of delivery.* Insert the clause at 552.211-94, Time of Delivery, in solicitations and contracts for supplies for the Stock Program when neither the FAR clause at 52.211-8, or the FAR clause at 52.211-9 is suitable.


(b) *Construction.* Insert the following clauses in solicitations and contracts when a fixed-price construction contract is contemplated:


(1) The clause at 552.211-10, Commencement, Prosecution, and Completion of Work.


(2) The clause at 552.211-70, Substantial Completion.



---

[N] [86 FR 55518, Oct. 6, 2021]




