# ยง 58.13   Monitoring network completion.

(a) The network of NCore multipollutant sites must be physically established no later than January 1, 2011, and at that time, operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, E, and G to this part. NCore sites required to conduct Pb monitoring as required under 40 CFR part 58 appendix D paragraph 3(b), or approved alternative non-source-oriented Pb monitoring sites, shall begin Pb monitoring in accordance with all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, E, and G to this part no later than December 27, 2011.


(b) Not withstanding specific dates included in this part, beginning January 1, 2008, when existing networks are not in conformance with the minimum number of required monitors specified in this part, additional required monitors must be identified in the next applicable annual monitoring network plan, with monitoring operation beginning by January 1 of the following year. To allow sufficient time to prepare and comment on Annual Monitoring Network Plans, only monitoring requirements effective 120 days prior to the required submission date of the plan (i.e., 120 days prior to July 1 of each year) shall be included in that year's annual monitoring network plan.


(c) The NO_2_ monitors required under Appendix D, section 4.3 of this part must be physically established and operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, and E to this part, no later than:


(1) January 1, 2013, for area-wide NO_2_ monitors required in Appendix D, section 4.3.3;


(2) January 1, 2013, for NO_2_ monitors intended to characterize vulnerable and susceptible populations that are required in Appendix D, section 4.3.4;


(3) January 1, 2014, for an initial near-road NO_2_ monitor in CBSAs having 1,000,000 million or more persons that is required in Appendix D, section 4.3.2;


(4) January 1, 2015, for a second near-road NO_2_ monitor in CBSAs that have a population of 2,500,000 or more persons or a second monitor in any CBSA with a population of 1,000,000 or more persons that has one or more roadway segments with 250,000 or greater AADT counts that is required in appendix D, section 4.3.2.


(d) The network of SO_2_ monitors must be physically established no later than January 1, 2013, and at that time, must be operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, and E to this part.


(e) The CO monitors required under Appendix D, section 4.2 of this part must be physically established and operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, and E to this part, no later than:


(1) January 1, 2015 for CO monitors in CBSAs having 2.5 million persons or more; or


(2) January 1, 2017 for other CO monitors.


(f) PM _2.5_ monitors required in near-road environments as described in appendix D to this part, must be physically established and operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendices A, C, D, and E to this part, no later than:


(1) January 1, 2015 for PM _2.5_ monitors in CBSAs having 2.5 million persons or more; or


(2) January 1, 2017 for PM _2.5_ monitors in CBSAs having 1 million or more, but less than 2.5 million persons.


(g) The O_3_ monitors required under appendix D, section 4.1 of this part must operate on the first day of the applicable required O_3_ monitoring season in effect January 1, 2017.


(h) The Photochemical Assessment Monitoring sites required under appendix D of this part, section 5(a), must be physically established and operating under all of the requirements of this part, including the requirements of appendix A, C, D, and E of this part, no later than June 1, 2021.



---

[N] [71 FR 61298, Oct. 17, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 67059, Nov. 12, 2008; 75 FR 6534, Feb. 9, 2010; 75 FR 35601, June 22, 2010; 75 FR 81137, Dec. 27, 2010; 76 FR 54341, Aug. 31, 2011; 78 FR 16188, Mar. 14, 2013; 78 FR 3283, Jan. 15, 2013; 80 FR 65466, Oct. 26, 2015; 81 FR 96388, Dec. 30, 2016; 85 FR 837, Jan. 8, 2020]




