# § 615.3   Definitions.

(a) *Demand*—A subpoena, order, or other demand of a court or other competent authority for the production of records or for the appearance and testimony of an NSF employee, issued in a legal proceeding between private litigants. 


(b) *Foundation* or *NSF* means the National Science Foundation. 


(c) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Foundation, or any person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part. 


(d) *Legal proceeding* means any proceeding before a court of law, administrative board or commission, hearing officer, or other body conducting a legal or administrative proceeding.


(e) *Official records and information* means all documents and material which are records of the Foundation under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; all other records contained in NSF's files; and all other information or material acquired by an NSF employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status. 


(f) *NSF employee or employee* means any present or former officer or employee of NSF; any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of NSF, or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for NSF; and any individual who served or is serving on any advisory committee or in any advisory capacity, whether formal or informal. 


(g) *Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of official records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority. 


(h) *Testimony* means any written or oral statement by a witness, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, and statements at a hearing or trial. 




