# ยง 102-3.130   What policies apply to the appointment, and compensation or reimbursement of advisory committee members?

In developing guidelines to implement the Act, this part, and other applicable laws and regulations at the agency level, agency heads should address the following issues:


(a) *Appointment and terms of advisory committee members.* Unless otherwise provided by statute, Presidential directive, or other establishment authority, advisory committee members serve at the pleasure of the appointing or inviting authority. Membership terms are at the sole discretion of the appointing or inviting authority. Agency heads are encouraged to set member term limits, where possible, so that agencies continually ensure the committee is fairly balanced throughout the life of the advisory committee.


(b) *Compensation of advisory committee members.* Agencies are not required to pay and are not prohibited from paying their advisory committee members, unless required to or prohibited from doing so by statute or Presidential authority. In determining the rate of compensation (per ยง 102-3.105(h)) the agency head may establish appropriate rates of pay (including any applicable locality pay authorized by the President's Pay Agent under 5 U.S.C. 5304(h)) not to exceed the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 5 U.S.C. 5315, unless a higher rate expressly is allowed by another statute. The agency may pay advisory committee members on either an hourly or a daily rate basis. The agency may not provide additional compensation in any form, such as bonuses or premium pay.


(c) *Other compensation considerations.* In establishing rates of pay for advisory committee members, the agency must comply with any applicable statutes, E.O.s, regulations, and administrative guidelines. In determining an appropriate rate of basic pay for advisory committee members, an agency must give consideration to the significance, scope, and technical complexity of the matters with which the advisory committee is concerned, and the qualifications required for the work involved.


(d) *Federal employees assigned to an advisory committee.* Federal employees serving as either an advisory committee member or as a staff person remain covered during the assignment by the compensation system of their employing agency. Federal employees serving as an advisory committee member or as a staff person must first obtain both the approval of their direct supervisor and the respective committee's DFO prior to serving in either capacity.


(e) *Other appointment considerations.* Any advisory committee staff person who is not a current Federal employee must be appointed in accordance with applicable agency procedures, in consultation with the DFO, and, as appropriate, the members of the advisory committee involved.


(f) *Travel expenses.* Advisory committee members, while engaged in the performance of their duties away from their homes or regular places of business, may be allowed reimbursement for travel expenses, including per diem, per the rates established for employees by the Administrator of General Services at 5 U.S.C. 5702.


(g) *Services for advisory committee members with disabilities.* While performing advisory committee duties, an advisory committee member with disabilities may be provided services by a personal assistant as those that may be provided to employees per 5 U.S.C. 3102. Additional accommodations should be discussed in order to maximize accessibility, including technology, per relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794.




