# § 63.9623   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations that apply to me?

(a) For each affected source subject to an emission limit in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance by meeting the emission limit requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.9583.


(1) For ore crushing and handling, the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter, determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(a) and 63.9621(b), must not exceed the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart.


(2) For indurating furnaces, the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter, determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(b) and 63.9621(c), must not exceed the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart.


(3) For finished pellet handling, the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter, determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(c) and 63.9621(b), must not exceed the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart.


(4) For ore dryers, the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter, determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(d) and 63.9621(c), must not exceed the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart.


(5) For indurating furnaces not using emissions averaging, the mercury emissions determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(k)(1) or (2) and 63.9621(d), must not exceed the applicable emission limit in table 2 to this subpart.


(6) For indurating furnaces that comply with the mercury emissions limit using emissions averaging, the average mercury emissions determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(k)(1) or (2), 63.9621(d) and 63.9634(m), must not exceed the applicable emission limit in table 2 to this subpart.


(7) For indurating furnaces that comply with the mercury emissions limit by adjusting the activated carbon injection rate based on the taconite pellet production rate, the mercury emissions determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(k)(1) or (2), 63.9621(d) or (e), and 63.9634(n), must not exceed the applicable emission limit in table 2 to this subpart.


(8) For indurating furnaces, the hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride emissions determined according to the procedures in §§ 63.9620(l) and 63.9621(d), must not exceed the applicable emission limit in table 3 to this subpart.


(b) For each affected source subject to an emission limit in table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance by meeting the operating limit requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) For each wet scrubber subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(1), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(a).


(2) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and operating limits for scrubber water flow rate and either fan amperage or pressure drop in § 63.9590(b)(2), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the scrubber water flow rate and either the fan amperage or pressure drop value, measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(b). After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and operating limits for scrubber water flow rate and fan amperage in § 63.9590(b)(2), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the scrubber water flow rate and the fan amperage value, measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(b).


(3) For each dry ESP subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and one of the operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(3), you must meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If you are subject to the operating limit for opacity in § 63.9590(b)(3)(i), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the opacity measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(c)(1).


(ii) If you are subject to the operating limit for secondary voltage and secondary current in § 63.9590(b)(3)(ii), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the secondary voltage and secondary current measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(c)(2).


(4) For each wet ESP subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and operating limits for secondary voltage, water flow rate, and stack outlet temperature in § 63.9590(b)(4), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the secondary voltage, water flow rate, and stack outlet temperature measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(d).


(5) For other air pollution control devices subject to performance testing in § 63.9620 and operating limits in accordance with § 63.9590(b)(8), you have submitted a site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.9631(f) and have a record of the site-specific operating limits as measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(e).


(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in tables 2 and 3 to this subpart, by meeting the operating limit requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For each wet scrubber and wet ESP subject to performance testing in § 63.9620(k) and operating limits for scrubber water flow rate and pH in § 63.9590(b)(5), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the scrubber water flow rate and pH measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(g).


(2) For each ACI subject to performance testing in § 63.9620(k) and operating limits for activated carbon injection rate and carrier gas flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(6), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limits and have a record of the activated carbon injection rate and carrier gas flow rate measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(i).(3) For each DSI subject to performance testing in § 63.9620(k) and operating limits for sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(7), you have established appropriate site-specific operating limit and have a record of the sorbent injection rate and carrier gas flow rate measured during the performance test in accordance with § 63.9622(h).


(d) If you elect to comply with the mercury limit in table 2 to this subpart using emissions averaging for indurating furnaces constructed or reconstructed before May 15, 2023, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Before submitting the implementation plan required in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, you must complete the mercury stack testing required in § 63.9620(k)(1) or install, calibrate, and operate a mercury CEMS pursuant to § 63.9620(k)(2) and paragraph (e) of this section for all indurating furnaces you wish to include in the mercury emission average.


(2) You must develop and submit to the applicable regulatory authority for review and approval, an implementation plan for mercury emission averaging no later than 180 days before the date you intend to demonstrate compliance using the emission averaging option. You must include the information contained in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in your implementation plan.


(i) Identification of all indurating furnaces in the averaging group, including the typical taconite pellet production rate, control technology installed, and types of fuel(s) that will be burned.


(ii) The mercury emission rate for each furnace for each of the fuels identified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) The date on which you are requesting emission averaging to commence.


(3) The regulatory authority shall review and approve or disapprove the plan according to the following criteria:


(i) Whether the content of the plan includes all the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and


(ii) Whether the plan presents sufficient information to determine that compliance will be achieved and maintained.


(4) The applicable regulatory authority shall not approve an emission averaging implementation plan containing any of the following provisions:


(i) Averaging that includes indurating furnaces constructed or reconstructed on or after May 15, 2023, or


(ii) Averaging between indurating furnaces located at different facilities.


(e) If you elect to demonstrate compliance with the mercury limit in table 2 to this subpart using a mercury CEMS, you must calculate the 30-day rolling average of 1-hour arithmetic average emission concentrations, including CEMS data during startup and shutdown, calculated using equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 at appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60. The 1-hour arithmetic averages for CEMS must be calculated using the data points required under § 63.8(c)(4)(ii).


(f) For each emission limitation and operating limit that applies to you, you must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9640(e)





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 45494, July 28, 2020;89 FR 16429, Mar. 6, 2024]




