# § 891.740   Responsibilities of Borrower.

(a) *Marketing.* (1) The Borrower must commence and continue diligent marketing activities not later than 90 days before the anticipated date of availability for occupancy of the group home or the anticipated date of availability of the first unit in an independent living complex. Market activities shall include the provision of notices of the availability of housing under the program to operators of temporary housing for the homeless in the same housing market. 


(2) Marketing must be done in accordance with the HUD-approved affirmative fair housing marketing plan and all fair housing and equal opportunity requirements. The purpose of the plan and requirements is to achieve a condition in which eligible families of similar income levels in the same housing market have a like range of housing choices available to them regardless of their race, color, religion, sex (including actual or perceived sexual orientation and gender identity), disability, familial status, or national origin.










(3) At the time of PAC execution, the Borrower must submit to HUD a list of leased and unleased assisted units (or in the case of a group home, leased and unleased residential spaces) with a justification for the unleased units or residential spaces, in order to qualify for vacancy payments for the unleased units or residential spaces. 


(b) *Management and maintenance.* The responsibilities of the Borrower with regard to management and maintenance are provided in § 891.600(b). 


(c) *Contracting for services.* The responsibilities of the Borrower with regard to contracting for services are provided in § 891.600(c). 


(d) *Submission of financial and operating statements.* The responsibilities of the Borrower with regard to the submission of financial and operating statements are provided in § 891.600(d). 


(e) *Use of project funds.* The responsibilities of the Borrower with regard to the use of project funds are provided in § 891.600(e). 


(f) *Reports.* The responsibilities of the Borrower with regard to reports are provided in § 891.600(f). 



---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 75233, Nov. 2, 2023]








