# § 1042.302   Applicability of this subpart for Category 3 engines.

If you produce Tier 3 or later Category 3 engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart, except as specified in this section.


(a) You must test each Category 3 engine at the sea trial of the vessel in which it is installed or within the first 300 hours of operation, whichever occurs first. This may involve testing a fully assembled production engine before it is installed in the vessel. For engines with on-off controls, you may omit testing to demonstrate compliance with Tier 2 standards if the engine does not rely on aftertreatment when Tier 3 emission controls are disabled. Since you must test each engine, the provisions of §§ 1042.310 and 1042.315(b) do not apply for Category 3 engines. If we determine that an engine failure under this subpart is caused by defective components or design deficiencies, we may revoke or suspend your certificate for the engine family as described in § 1042.340. If we determine that an engine failure under this subpart is caused only by incorrect assembly, we may suspend your certificate for the engine family as described in § 1042.325. If the engine fails, you may continue operating only to complete the sea trial and return to port. It is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) to operate the vessel further until you remedy the cause of failure. Each two-hour period of such operation constitutes a separate offense. A violation lasting less than two hours constitutes a single offense.


(b) You are only required to measure NO_X_ emissions. You do not need to measure HC, CO or PM emissions under this subpart.


(c) If you are unable to operate the engine at the test points for the specified duty cycle, you may approximate these points consistent with the specifications of section 6 of Appendix 8 to the NO_X_ Technical Code (incorporated by reference in § 1042.910) and show compliance with the alternate installed-engine standard of § 1042.104(g). You must obtain EPA approval of your test procedure prior to testing the engine. Include in your request a description of your basis for concluding that the engine cannot be tested at the actual test points of the specified duty cycle.


(d) You may measure NO_X_ emissions at additional test points for the purposes of the continuous NO_X_ monitoring requirements of § 1042.110(d). If you do, you must report these values along with your other test results. Describe in your application for certification how you plan to use these values for continuous NO_X_ monitoring.


(e) You may ask to measure emissions according to the Direct Measurement and Monitoring method specified in section 6.4 of the NO_X_ Technical Code (incorporated by reference in § 1042.910).



---

[N] [75 FR 23003, Apr. 30, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 74149, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34510, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4662, Jan. 24, 2023]




