# § 238.737   Luggage racks.

(a) Overhead storage racks shall provide longitudinal and lateral restraint for stowed articles. These racks shall incorporate transverse dividers at a maximum spacing of 10 ft. (3 m) to restrain the longitudinal movement of luggage. To restrain the lateral movement of luggage, these racks shall also slope downward in the outboard direction at a minimum ratio of 1:8 with respect to a horizontal plane.


(b) Luggage racks shall comply with the requirements in either of the following paragraphs:


(1) Section 238.233; or


(2) Section 6.8, “Luggage stowage,” of GM/RT2100, provided that—


(i) The conditions of § 238.705(b)(2) are met;


(ii) Attachment strength is sufficient to resist without failure individually applied loads of 5g longitudinal, 3g lateral, and 3g vertical; and


(iii) Use of the standard is carried out under any conditions identified by the railroad, as approved by FRA. In particular, the railroad shall determine the maximum allowable weight of the luggage stowed for purposes of evaluating luggage rack attachment strength.


(c) Railway Group Standard GM/RT2100, Issue Four, “Requirements for Rail Vehicle Structures,” December 2010 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC and is available from Rail Safety and Standards Board Ltd., Communications, RSSB, Block 2 Angel Square, 1 Torrens Street, London, England EC1V 1NY, *www.rgsonline.co.uk*. It is also available for inspection at NARA. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*.




