# § 48.6421-4   Meaning of terms.

For purposes of the regulations under section 6421, unless otherwise expressly indicated—


(a) *Gasoline.* The term “gasoline” has the same meaning given to such term by section 4082(b) and regulations thereunder.


(b) *Qualified business use.* (1) The term “qualified business use” means any use by a person in a trade or business of the person or in an activity of the person described in section 212 (relating to production of income) otherwise than as a fuel in a highway vehicle—


(i) That at the time of the use is registered, or is required to be registered, for highway use under the laws of any state, the District of Columbia, or a foreign country, or


(ii) That, in the case of a highway vehicles owned by the United States, is used on the highway.


(2) Any highway vehicle operated under a dealer's tag, license, or permit will be considered to be registered. A highway vehicle is not considered to be “registered” solely because there has been issued a special permit for operation of the vehicle at particular times and under specified conditions. However, a highway vehicle that is required to be registered and that is also issued a special permit for operation of the vehicle under specified conditions, such as carrying an oversize load, is still considered to be “registered.”


(3) Nonbusiness, off-highway use of gasoline by such vehicles and equipment as minibikes, snowmobiles, power lawn mowers, chain saws, and other yard equipment does not qualify as gasoline used a qualified business use.


(4) Examples of gasoline used in a qualified business use include: 


(i) Gasoline used (in a trade or business or for the production of income) in stationary engines to operate pumps, generators, compressors, and power saws; 


(ii) Gasoline used (in a trade or business or for the production of income) for cleaning purposes; 


(iii) Gasoline used (in a trade or business or for the production of income) in forklift trucks, bulldozers, and earthmovers; and 


(iv) Gasoline used by a nonhighway vehicle in connection with the trade or business of construction, mining or logging.


(5) *Illustration.* The application of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following example:


(c) *Highway vehicle.* The term “highway vehicle” has the same meaning assigned to this term under § 48.4061(a)-1(d).


(d) *Highway.* The term “highway” includes any road, whether a Federal highway, State highway, city street, or otherwise, in the United States which is not a private roadway.


(e) *Noncommercial aviation.* The term “non-commercial aviation” has the same meaning given to such term by section 4041(c)(4).


(f) *Calendar quarter.* The term “calendar quarter” means a period of three calendar months ending on March 31, June 30, September 30, or December 31.


(g) *Taxable year.* The “taxable year” of a governmental unit or tax-exempt organization described in § 48.6421-1(c) or § 48.6421-2(c) is the calendar or fiscal year on the basis of which it regularly keeps its books. The “taxable year” of persons subject to income tax shall have the meaning it has under section 7701(a)(23).



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32042, Aug. 8, 1985]




