# ยง 1277.26   Redemption and repurchase of capital stock.

(a) *Redemption.* (1) A member or former member may have its stock in a Bank redeemed by providing written notice to the Bank in accordance with this section. A member or former member shall provide six-months written notice for Class A stock and five-years written notice for Class B stock. The notice shall indicate the number of shares of Bank stock that are to be redeemed. No more than one notice of redemption may be outstanding at one time for the same shares of Bank stock. At the expiration of the applicable notice period, the Bank shall pay to the member or other institution holding the stock the stated par value of that stock in cash.


(2) A member may cancel a notice of redemption by so informing the Bank in writing, and the Bank may impose a fee (to be specified in its capital plan) with respect to any cancellation of a pending notice of redemption. A request by a member (whose membership has not been terminated) to redeem specific shares of stock shall automatically be cancelled if the Bank is prevented from redeeming the member's stock by paragraph (c) of this section within five business days from the end of the expiration of the applicable redemption notice period because the member would fail to maintain its minimum investment in the stock of the Bank after such redemption. The automatic cancellation of a member's redemption request shall have the same effect as if the member had cancelled its notice to redeem stock prior to the end of the redemption notice period, and a Bank may impose a fee (to be specified in its capital plan) for automatic cancellation of a redemption request.


(3) A Bank shall not be obligated to redeem its capital stock other than in accordance with this paragraph.


(b) *Repurchase.* A Bank, in its discretion and without regard to the applicable redemption periods, may repurchase excess stock in accordance with the capital plan of that Bank. A Bank undertaking such a stock repurchase at its own initiative shall provide reasonable notice prior to repurchasing any excess stock, with the period of such notice to be specified in the Bank's capital plan, and shall pay the stated par value of that stock in cash. A member's submission of a notice of intent to withdraw from membership, or its termination of membership in any other manner, shall not, in and of itself, cause any Bank stock to be deemed excess stock for purposes of this section.


(c) *Limitation.* In no event may a Bank redeem or repurchase any stock if, following the redemption or repurchase, the Bank would fail to meet its regulatory capital requirements, or if the member or former member would fail to maintain its minimum investment in the stock of the Bank, as required by ยง 1277.22.




