# § 147.100   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of Alaska, other than those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ [May 6, 1986]; the effective date of this program is June 19, 1986. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of Alaska. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register effective June 19, 1986.


(1) Alaska Statutes, Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Act, Title 31, §§ 31.05.005 through 31.30.010 (1979 and Cum. Supp. 1984);


(2) Alaska Statutes, Administrative Procedures Act, Title 44, §§ 44.62.010 through 44.62.650 (1984);


(3) Alaska Administrative Code, Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, 20 AAC 25.005 through 20 AAC 25.570 (Supp. 1986).


(b) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 10, and the Alaska Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on January 29, 1986, as amended on June 21, 1988. 


(c) *Statement of Legal Authority.* Statement from the Attorney General of the State of Alaska, signed by the Assistant Attorney General on December 10, 1985.


(d) The Program Description and any other materials submitted as part of the original application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [51 FR 16684, May 6, 1986, as amended at 56 FR 9411, Mar. 6, 1991]




