# § 63.2850   How do I comply with the hazardous air pollutant emission standards?

(a) *General requirements.* The requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply to all affected sources:


(1) Submit the necessary notifications in accordance with § 63.2860, which include:


(i) Initial notifications for existing sources.


(ii) Initial notifications for new and reconstructed sources.


(iii) Initial notifications for significant modifications to existing or new sources.


(iv) Notification of compliance status.


(2) Develop and implement a plan for demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.2851.


(3) Develop a written startup, shutdown and malfunction (SSM) plan in accordance with the provisions in § 63.2852. On and after September 15, 2020, an SSM plan is not required.


(4) Maintain all the necessary records you have used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart in accordance with § 63.2862.


(5) Submit the reports in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable:


(i) Annual compliance certifications in accordance with § 63.2861(a).


(ii) Periodic SSM reports in accordance with § 63.2861(c).


(iii) Immediate SSM reports in accordance with § 63.2861(d).


(iv) Initial startup period reports in accordance with § 63.2861(e).


(6) Submit all notifications and reports and maintain all records required by the General Provisions for performance testing if you add a control device that destroys solvent.


(b) *Existing sources under normal operation.* You must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation, and the schedules for demonstrating compliance for existing sources under normal operation in Table 2 of this section.


(c) *New sources.* Your new source, including a source that is categorized as new due to reconstruction, must meet the requirements associated with one of two compliance options. Within 15 days of the startup date, you must choose to comply with one of the options listed in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section:


(1) *Normal operation.* Upon initial startup of your new source, you must meet all of the requirements listed in § 63.2850(a) and Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation, and the schedules for demonstrating compliance for new sources under normal operation in Table 2 of this section.


(2) *Initial startup period.* For up to 6 calendar months after the startup date of your new source, you must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and Table 1 of this section for sources operating under an initial startup period, and the schedules for demonstrating compliance for new sources operating under an initial startup period in Table 2 of this section. On and after September 15, 2020, you must also comply with the work practice standard in § 63.2840(h) for the duration of the initial startup period. At the end of the initial startup period (as defined in § 63.2872), your new source must then meet all of the requirements listed in Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation.


(d) *Existing or new sources that have been significantly modified.* Your existing or new source that has been significantly modified must meet the requirements associated with one of two compliance options. Within 15 days of the modified source startup date, you must choose to comply with one of the options listed in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section:


(1) *Normal operation.* Upon initial startup of your significantly modified existing or new source, you must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation, and the schedules for demonstrating compliance for an existing or new source that has been significantly modified in Table 2 of this section.


(2) *Initial startup period.* For up to 3 calendar months after the startup date of your significantly modified existing or new source, you must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and Table 1 of this section for sources operating under an initial startup period, and the schedules for demonstrating compliance for a significantly modified existing or new source operating under an initial startup period in Table 2 of this section. On and after September 15, 2020, you must also comply with the work practice standard in § 63.2840(h) for the duration of the initial startup period. At the end of the initial startup period (as defined in § 63.2872), your new or existing source must meet all of the requirements listed in Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation.


(e) *Existing or new sources experiencing a malfunction.* A *malfunction* is defined in § 63.2. In general, it means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to function in a normal or usual manner. If your existing or new source experiences an unscheduled shutdown as a result of a malfunction, continues to operate during a malfunction (including the period reasonably necessary to correct the malfunction), or starts up after a shutdown resulting from a malfunction, then you must meet the requirements associated with one of two compliance options. Routine or scheduled process startups and shutdowns resulting from, but not limited to, market demands, maintenance activities, and switching types of oilseed processed, are not startups or shutdowns resulting from a malfunction and, therefore, do not qualify for this provision. Within 15 days of the beginning date of the malfunction, you must choose to comply with one of the options listed in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (e) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.


(1) *Normal operation.* Your source must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and one of the options listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) Existing source normal operation requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) New source normal operation requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(iii) Normal operation requirements for sources that have been significantly modified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(2) *Malfunction period.* Throughout the malfunction period, you must meet all of the requirements listed in paragraph (a) of this section and Table 1 of this section for sources operating during a malfunction period. At the end of the malfunction period, your source must then meet all of the requirements listed in Table 1 of this section for sources under normal operation. Table 1 of this section follows:



---

[N] [66 FR 19011, Apr. 12, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 20463, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 15627, Mar. 18, 2020]







