# § 912.700   Idaho Federal program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining operations in Idaho which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977.


(b) The rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this chapter. The full text of a rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the Idaho Federal program.


(c) The rules in this part apply to all surface coal mining operations in Idaho conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. The rules in subchapter D of this chapter apply to operations on Federal lands in Idaho.


(d) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this part are the same as those of the permanent program regulations which have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507.


(e) The following provisions of Idaho laws provide, where applicable, for more stringent environmental control and regulation of surface coal mining operations than do the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to Section 505(b) of the Act, they shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Act.


(1) Idaho Code Section 47-1503(20) pertaining to the definition of “operator.”


(2) Idaho Code Section 47-1509(c) regarding reclamation of disturbed land of less than 2 acres.


(3) Idaho Code Section 47-1513(c) providing for assessment of anticipated costs of reclamation against an operator.


(4) Idaho Code Sections 47-1513 (f) and (g) providing for assessment of civil penalties in addition to bond forfeiture.


(5) Idaho Code Sections 47-1301 *et seq.* and Rules 1 through 20 promulgated thereunder pertaining to regulation of dredge mining.


(6) Idaho Code Sections 18-4301 and 18-7019 providing for punishment for interference with water sources used in mining operations.


(7) Idaho Code Section 42-1713 requiring a fee to be paid by each owner of a dam, reservoir or mine tailing impoundment structure. 


(8) Idaho Code Section 42-1718 (Supp.) providing for assessment against an operator for costs incurred in correction deficiencies in dams and impoundment structures.


(f) The following Idaho statute and regulations interfere with the achievement of the purposes and goals of the Act. Therefore, in accordance with section 504(g) of the Act, they are preempted and superseded with respect to surface coal mining and reclamation, except as they apply to surface coal mining operations affecting two acres or less, or which otherwise are not regulated by the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act:



---

[N] [48 FR 16222, Apr. 14, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 13807, Apr. 24, 1987]




