# 9.203   QPL's, QML's, and QBL's.

(a) Qualification and listing in a QPL, QML, or QBL is the process by which products are obtained from manufacturers or distributors, examined and tested for compliance with specification requirements, or manufacturers or potential offerors, are provided an opportunity to demonstrate their abilities to meet the standards specified for qualification. The names of successful products, manufacturers, or potential offerors are included on lists evidencing their status. Generally, qualification is performed in advance and independently of any specific acquisition action. After qualification, the products, manufacturers, or potential offerors are included in a Federal or Military QPL, QML, or QBL. (See 9.202(a)(2) with regard to any product, manufacturer, or potential offeror not yet included on an applicable list.)




(b) Specifications requiring a qualified product are included—


(1) In the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions; and


(2) On the Department of Defense Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST) website at *https://assist.dla.mil.*

(c) Instructions concerning qualification procedures are included in the following publications:


(1) Federal Standardization Manual, FSPM-0001.


(2) Department of Defense Manual 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP) Procedures, (*www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/Issuances/dodm*) as amended by Military Standards 961 and 962 (*https://assist.dla.mil*).




(d) The publications in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(1) of this section may be obtained from the address in 11.201(d)(1).





---

[N] [50 FR 35476, Aug. 30, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 17857, May 18, 1988; 63 FR 34062, June 22, 1998; 67 FR 6120, Feb. 8, 2002; 71 FR 227, Jan. 3, 2006; 79 FR 24253, Apr. 29, 2014; 88 FR 57355, Aug. 8, 2023]




