# § 488.432   Civil money penalties imposed by the State: NF-only.

(a) *When a facility requests a hearing.* (1) When the State imposes a civil money penalty against a non-State operated NF that is not subject to imposition of remedies by CMS, the facility must request a hearing on the determination of noncompliance that is the basis for imposition of the civil money penalty within the time specified in § 431.153 of this chapter.


(2)(i) If a facility requests a hearing within the time frame specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for a civil money penalty imposed per day, the State initiates collection of the penalty when there is a final administrative decision that upholds the State's determination of noncompliance after the facility achieves substantial compliance or is terminated.


(ii) If a facility requests a hearing for a civil money penalty imposed per instance of noncompliance within the time specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State initiates collection of the penalty when there is a final administrative decision that upholds the State's determination of noncompliance.


(b) *When a facility does not request a hearing for a civil money penalty imposed per day.* (1) If a facility does not request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the State initiates collection of the penalty when the facility—


(i) Achieves substantial compliance; or


(ii) Is terminated.


(2) *When a facility does not request a hearing for a civil money penalty imposed per instance of noncompliance.* If a facility does not request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the State initiates collection of the penalty when the time frame for requesting a hearing expires.


(c) *When a facility waives a hearing.* (1) If a facility waives its right to a hearing as specified in § 488.436, the State initiates collection of civil money penalty imposed per day of noncompliance after 60 days from the date of the notice imposing the penalty and the State has not received a timely request for a hearing.


(2) If a facility waives its right to a hearing as specified in § 488.436, the State initiates collection of civil money penalty imposed per instance of noncompliance after 60 days from the date of the notice imposing the penalty and the State has not received a timely request for a hearing.


(d) Accrual and computation of penalties for a facility that—


(1) Requests a hearing or does not request a hearing are specified in § 488.440; 


(2) Waives its right to a hearing in writing, are specified in §§ 488.436(b) and 488.440. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56243, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50119, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 13360, Mar. 18, 1999; 76 FR 15127, Mar. 18, 2011; 88 FR 53347, Aug. 7, 2023]




