# § 1090.710   Downstream oxygenate accounting.

The requirements of this section apply to BOB for which a gasoline manufacturer accounts for the effects of the oxygenate blending that occurs downstream of the fuel manufacturing facility in the gasoline manufacturer's average standard compliance calculations under this subpart. This section also includes requirements for oxygenate blenders to ensure that oxygenate is added in accordance with the blending instructions specified by the gasoline manufacturer in order to ensure fuel quality standards are met.


(a) *Provisions for gasoline manufacturers.* In order to account for the effects of oxygenate blending downstream, a gasoline manufacturer must meet all the following requirements:


(1) Produce or import BOB such that the gasoline continues to meet the applicable gasoline standards in subpart C of this part after the addition of the specified type and amount of oxygenate.


(2) For each batch of BOB produced or imported, create a hand blend in accordance with § 1090.1340 and determine the properties of the hand blend using the methods specified in subpart N of this part.


(3) Participate in the NSTOP specified in § 1090.1450 or have an approved in-line blending waiver under § 1090.1315.


(4) Transfer ownership of the BOB only to an oxygenate blender that is registered with EPA under subpart I of this part or to an intermediate owner with the restriction that it only be transferred to a registered oxygenate blender.


(5) Specify on the PTD for the BOB each oxygenate type and amount (or range of amounts) for which the hand blend was certified for compliance under § 1090.1340.


(6) Participate in the NFSP under subpart O of this part.


(b) *Requirements for oxygenate blenders.* An oxygenate blender must add oxygenate of each type and amount (or within the range of amounts) as specified on the PTD for all BOB received, except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(c) *Limitations.* (1) Only the gasoline manufacturer that first certifies the BOB may account for the downstream addition of oxygenate under this section. On any occasion where any person downstream of the fuel manufacturing facility gate of the gasoline manufacturer that produced or imported gasoline or BOB adds oxygenate to such product, the person must not include the volume, sulfur content, and benzene content of the oxygenate in any compliance calculations for demonstrating compliance with the average standards specified in subpart C of this part or for credit generation under this subpart. All applicable per-gallon standards specified in subpart C of this part continue to apply.


(2) A person downstream of the fuel manufacturing facility gate may recertify BOB for use as gasoline without the addition of the specified type and amount of oxygenate if the provisions of § 1090.740 are met. A person who recertifies BOB for use as gasoline without the addition of the specified type and amount of oxygenate is a gasoline manufacturer and must meet all applicable requirements for a gasoline manufacturer specified in this part.




