# ยง 14.8   Use and occupancy fee.

(a) Every permittee must pay a use and occupancy fee to the NPS for the use and occupancy of federally owned lands and waters within the National Park System, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) The use and occupancy fee will be the fair market value of the use and occupancy of federally owned lands and waters under the right-of-way permit.


(1) The NPS may adopt any method approved by the Department of the Interior to determine the use and occupancy fee.


(2) Costs for administration of the right-of-way program will be collected by the NPS in accordance with OMB Circular A-25 at the current indirect cost rate and will be retained as cost recovery under 54 U.S.C. 103104 out of the use and occupancy fees collected on right-of-way permits issued.


(3) If a permittee's infrastructure is for both exempt and non-exempt uses or users, as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, only those discrete portions that serve exempt uses or users may be eligible for exemption from the use and occupancy fee.


(c) The use and occupancy fee may be re-evaluated at any time during the term of a right-of-way permit at the discretion of the NPS, but at a minimum will be re-evaluated every 10 years.


(d) The use and occupancy fee will be re-evaluated when a right-of-way permit is renewed under ยง 14.12 of this part and when a subsequent right-of-way permit is issued for infrastructure that was authorized under an expired right-of-way permit that was not renewed in a timely manner.


(e) A permittee may be exempt from paying a use and occupancy fee if their infrastructure is exclusively:


(1) Used by a Federal Government agency, including the NPS;


(2) Serving the purposes of an authorized use and occupancy for which the NPS is already receiving compensation that was determined in consideration of services provided by the permittee;


(3) Operated or used by a Tribal, State, or local government for a direct non-commercial use; or


(4) For a project that is clearly in the public interest and consistent with the purposes and values of the park area.






