# § 301.91-1   Definitions.

Terms used in the singular form in this subpart shall be construed as the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. The following terms, when used in this subpart, shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*Certificate.* A document which is issued for a regulated article by an inspector or by a person operating under a compliance agreement, and which represents that such article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.91-5(a).


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between Plant Protection and Quarantine and a person engaged in the business of growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, wherein the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed pursuant thereto. 


*Deputy Administrator.* The Deputy Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service for Plant Protection and Quarantine, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority to act in his/her stead has been or may hereafter be delegated. 


*European larch canker.* The plant disease known as European larch canker, *Lachnellula willkommi* (Dasycypha), in any stage of development. 


*Infestation.* The presence of European larch canker or the existence of circumstances that make it reasonable to believe that the European larch canker is present. 


*Inspector.* Any employee of Plant Protection and Quarantine, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or other person, authorized by the Deputy Administrator in accordance with law to enforce the provisions of the quarantines and regulations in this subpart.


*Interstate.* From any State into or through any other State. 


*Limited permit.* A document which is issued for a regulated article by an inspector or by a person operating under a compliance agreement, and which represents that such regulated article is eligible for interstate movement in accordance with § 301.91-5(b).


*Moved (movement, move).* Shipped, offered for shipment to a common carrier, received for transportation or transported by a common carrier, or carried, transported, moved, or allowed to be moved or caused to be moved by any means. “Movement” and “move” shall be construed accordingly.


*Person.* Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, society, association, or other organized group.


*Plant Protection and Quarantine.* The organizational unit within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, delegated responsibility for enforcing provisions of the Plant Protection Act and related legislation, quarantines, and regulations.


*Regulated area.* Any State, or any portion thereof, listed in accordance with § 301.91-3.




*Regulated article.* Any article identified as a regulated article under § 301.91-2 as follows: listed as of January 30, 2023, added in accordance with § 301.91-2(b), or otherwise designated in accordance with § 301.91-2(c).






*State.* Each of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United States and all other Territories and Possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [49 FR 18992, May 4, 1984, as amended at 66 FR 21053, Apr. 27, 2001; 87 FR 80017, Dec. 29, 2022]




