# § 225.21   Forms.

The following forms and copies of the “FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports” may be obtained from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration, Office of Safety Analysis, RRS-22, Mail Stop 25 West Building 3rd Floor, Room W33-107, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590 or downloaded from FRA's Office of Safety Analysis Web site at *http://safetydata.fra.dot.gov/officeofsafety/,* and click on “Click Here for Changes in Railroad Accident/Incident Recordkeeping and Reporting.”


(a) *Form FRA F 6180.54—Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report.* Form FRA F 6180.54 shall be used to report each reportable rail equipment accident/incident which occurred during the preceding month.


(b) *Form FRA F 6180.55—Railroad Injury and Illness Summary.* Form FRA F 6180.55 must be filed each month, even though no reportable accident/incident occurred during the month covered. Each report must include an oath or verification, made by the proper officer of the reporting railroad, as provided for attestation on the form. If no reportable accident/incident occurred during the month, that fact must be stated on this form. All railroads subject to this part, shall show on this form the total number of freight train miles, passenger train miles, yard switching train miles, and other train miles run during the month.


(c) *Form FRA 6180.55a—Railroad Injury and Illness (Continuation Sheet).* Form FRA 6180.55a shall be used to report all reportable fatalities, injuries and occupational illnesses that occurred during the preceding month.


(d) *Form FRA 6180.56—Annual Railroad Report of Manhours by State.* Form FRA 6180.56 shall be submitted as part of the monthly Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Form FRA F 6180.55) for the month of December of each year.


(e) *Form FRA F 6180.57—Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Report.* Form FRA F 6180.57 shall be used to report each highway-rail grade crossing accident/incident which occurred during the preceding month.


(f) *Form FRA F 6180.81—Employee Human Factor Attachment.* Form FRA F 6180.81 shall be used by railroads, as a supplement to the Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.54), in reporting rail equipment accidents/incidents that they attribute to an employee human factor. This form shall be completed in accordance with instructions printed on the form and in the current “FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports.” The form shall be attached to the Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report and shall be submitted within 30 days after expiration of the month in which the accident/incident occurred.


(g) *Form FRA F 6180.78—Notice to Railroad Employee Involved in Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Attributed to Employee Human Factor; Employee Statement Supplementing Railroad Accident Report.* When a railroad alleges, in the Employee Human Factor Attachment to a Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report, that the act, omission, or physical condition of a specific employee was a primary or contributing cause of the rail equipment accident/incident, the railroad shall complete part I of Form FRA F 6180.78 to notify each such employee identified that the railroad has made such allegation and that the employee has the right to submit a statement to FRA. The railroad shall then submit the entire form, parts I and II, to the employee. The Employee Statement Supplementing Railroad Accident Report (Employee Supplement) is completely at the option of the employee; however, if the employee desires to make a statement about the accident that will become part of the railroad's Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report, the employee shall complete the Employee Supplement form (part II of Form FRA F 6180.78) and shall then submit the original of the entire form, parts I and II, and any attachments, to FRA and submit a copy of the same to the railroad that issued the Notice in part I.


(h) *Form FRA F 6180.98—Railroad Employee Injury and/or Illness Record.* Form FRA F 6180.98 or an alternative railroad-designed record shall be used by the railroads to record all reportable and accountable injuries and illnesses to railroad employees for each establishment. This record shall be completed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 225.25.


(i) *Form FRA F 6180.97—Initial Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Record.* Form FRA F 6180.97 or an alternative railroad-designed record shall be used by the railroads to record all reportable and accountable rail equipment accidents/incidents for each establishment. This record shall be completed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 225.25.


(j) *Form FRA F 6180.107—Alternative Record for Illnesses Claimed to be Work-Related.* Form FRA F 6180.107 or an alternative railroad-designed record may be used by a railroad in lieu of Form FRA F 6180.98, “Railroad Employee Injury and/or Illness Record” (described in paragraph (h) of this section), to record each illness claimed by an employee to be work-related that is reported to the railroad for which there is insufficient information for the railroad to determine whether the illness is work-related. This record shall be completed and retained in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 225.25 and § 225.27.


(k) *Form FRA F 6180.150—Highway User Injury Inquiry Form.*—Form FRA F 6180.150 shall be sent to every potentially injured highway user, or their representative, involved in a highway-rail grade crossing accident/incident. If a highway user died as a result of the highway-rail grade crossing accident/incident, a railroad must not send this form to any person. The railroad shall hand deliver or send by first class mail the letter within a reasonable time period following the date of the highway-rail grade crossing accident/incident. The form shall be sent along with a cover letter and a prepaid preaddressed return envelope. The form and cover letter shall be completed in accordance with instructions contained in the current “FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports.” Any response from a highway user is voluntary and not mandatory. A railroad shall use any response from a highway user to comply with part 225's accident/incident reporting and recording requirements.



---

[N] [39 FR 43224, Dec. 11, 1974, as amended at 42 FR 1221, Jan. 6, 1977; 49 FR 48939, Dec. 17, 1984; 55 FR 37828, Sept. 13, 1990; 61 FR 30969, 30973, June 18, 1996; 68 FR 10138, Mar. 3, 2003; 75 FR 68907, Nov. 9, 2010]




