# § 35.930   Evaluation and hazard reduction requirements.

(a) *Paint testing.* The grantee or participating jurisdiction shall either perform paint testing on the painted surfaces to be disturbed or replaced during rehabilitation activities, or presume that all these painted surfaces are coated with lead-based paint.


(b) *Residential property receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.* Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:


(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If paint testing indicates that the painted surfaces are not coated with lead-based paint, safe work practices and clearance are not required.


(2) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed.


(3) After completion of any rehabilitation disturbing painted surfaces, perform a clearance examination of the worksite(s) in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance is not required if rehabilitation did not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(d).


(c) *Residential property receiving an average of more than $5,000 and up to and including $25,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.* Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:


(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Perform a risk assessment in the dwelling units receiving Federal assistance, in common areas servicing those units, and exterior painted surfaces, in accordance with § 35.1320(b), before rehabilitation begins.


(3) Perform interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330 of all lead-based paint hazards identified pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.


(4) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed and is known or presumed to be lead-based paint.


(d) *Residential property receiving an average of more than $25,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.* Each grantee or participating jurisdiction shall:


(1) Conduct paint testing or presume the presence of lead-based paint in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Perform a risk assessment in the dwelling units receiving Federal assistance and in associated common areas and exterior painted surfaces in accordance with § 35.1320(b) before rehabilitation begins.


(3) Abate all lead-based paint hazards identified by the paint testing or risk assessment conducted pursuant to paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, in accordance with § 35.1325, except that interim controls are acceptable on exterior surfaces that are not disturbed by rehabilitation and on paint-lead hazards that have an area smaller than the *de minimis* limits of § 35.1350(d). If abatement of a paint-lead hazard is required, it is necessary to abate only the surface area with hazardous conditions.


(4) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed and is known or presumed to be lead-based paint.



---

[N] [64 FR 50214, Sept. 15, 1999; 65 FR 3387, Jan. 21, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 34273, June 21, 2004]




