# § 843.25   Energy Policy Act enforcement in States with approved State programs.

(a) *State-by-State determinations.* By July 31, 1995, OSM will determine for each State with an approved State regulatory program whether:


(1) Direct Federal enforcement of the Energy Policy Act and implementing Federal regulations will occur under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to some or all surface coal mining operations in each State, or 


(2) The procedures of §§ 843.11 and 843.12(a)(2) will apply to State enforcement of the Energy Policy Act, or


(3) A combination of direct Federal enforcement and State enforcement will occur. 


(4) Before making this determination, OSM will consult with each affected State and provide an opportunity for public comment. OSM will publish its determination in the _Federal Register._

(b) *Interim Federal enforcement.* (1) If OSM determines under paragraph (a) that direct Federal enforcement is necessary, §§ 817.41(j), 817.121(c)(2), and 817.121(c)(4) of this chapter will apply to each underground mining operation subject to that determination that is conducted in a State with an approved State regulatory program. 


(2) If OSM determines under paragraph (a) of this section that direct Federal enforcement is necessary, the provisions of § 843.12(a)(2) will not apply to direct Federal enforcement actions under this paragraph (b). When, on the basis of any Federal inspection under this paragraph, an authorized representative determines that a violation of § 817.41(j) or § 817.121(c)(2) exists, the authorized representative must issue a notice of violation or cessation order, as appropriate.


(3) This paragraph (b) will remain effective in a State with an approved State regulatory program until the State adopts, and OSM approves, under part 732 of this chapter, provisions consistent with §§ 817.41(j) and 817.121(c)(2) of this chapter. After these provisions are approved, this paragraph will remain effective only for violations of §§ 817.41(j) and 817.121(c)(2) that are not regulated by the State regulatory authority. 



---

[N] [60 FR 16750, Mar. 31, 1995]




