# § 91.235   Special case; abbreviated consolidated plan.

(a) *Who may submit an abbreviated plan?* A jurisdiction that is not a CDBG entitlement community under 24 CFR part 570, subpart D, and is not expected to be a participating jurisdiction in the HOME program under 24 CFR part 92, as well as an Insular Area that is a HOME or CDBG grantee, may submit an abbreviated consolidated plan that is appropriate to the types and amounts of assistance sought from HUD, instead of a full consolidated plan.


(b) *When is an abbreviated plan necessary?*—(1) *Jurisdiction.* When a jurisdiction that is permitted to use an abbreviated plan applies to HUD for funds under a program that requires an approved consolidated plan (see § 91.2(b)), it must obtain approval of an abbreviated plan (or full consolidated plan) and submit a certification that the housing activities are consistent with the plan. 


(2) *Other applicants.* When an eligible applicant other than a jurisdiction (e.g., a public housing agency or nonprofit organization) seeks to apply for funding under a program requiring certification of consistency with an approved consolidated plan, the jurisdiction—if it is permitted to use an abbreviated plan—may prepare an abbreviated plan appropriate to the project. See § 91.510. 


(3) *Limitation.* For the HOME program, an abbreviated consolidated plan is permitted only with respect to reallocations to other than participating jurisdictions (see 24 CFR part 92, subpart J), and for Insular Area grantees that submit an abbreviated consolidated plan pursuant to 24 CFR 570.440. For the CDBG program, an abbreviated plan may be submitted for the HUD-administered Small Cities program (except that an abbreviated plan may not be submitted for the HUD-administered Small Cities program in the state of Hawaii), and for Insular Area grantees pursuant to 24 CFR 570.440.


(c) *What is an abbreviated plan?*—(1) *Assessment of needs, resources, and planned activities.* An abbreviated plan must contain sufficient information about needs, resources, and planned activities to address the needs to cover the type and amount of assistance anticipated to be funded by HUD.


(2) *Nonhousing community development plan.* If the jurisdiction seeks assistance under the Community Development Block Grant program, it must describe the jurisdiction's priority non-housing community development needs eligible for assistance under HUD's community development programs by CDBG eligibility category, reflecting the needs of families for each type of activity, as appropriate, in terms of dollar amounts estimated to meet the priority need for the type of activity, in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. This community development component of the plan must state the jurisdiction's specific long-term and short-term community development objectives (including economic development activities that create jobs), which must be developed in accordance with the statutory goals described in § 91.1 and the primary objective of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5301(c), of the development of viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-income and moderate-income persons. 


(3) *Separate application for funding.* In addition to submission of the abbreviated consolidated plan, an application must be submitted for funding is sought under a competitive program. The applicable program requirements are found in the regulations for the program and in the Notice of Funding Availability published for the applicable fiscal year. For the CDBG Small Cities program, the applicable regulations are found at 24 CFR part 570, subpart F. 


(4) *Submissions, certifications, amendments, and performance reports.* An Insular Area grantee that submits an abbreviated consolidated plan under this section must comply with the submission, certification, amendment, and performance report requirements of § 570.440 of this title. This includes the certification that the grantee will affirmatively further fair housing pursuant to §§ 5.151 and 5.152 of this title.


(d) *What consultation is applicable?* The jurisdiction must make reasonable efforts to consult with appropriate public and private social service agencies regarding the needs to be served with the funding sought from HUD. The jurisdiction must attempt some consultation with the State. (Section 91.100 does not apply.) 


(e) *Citizen Participation.* An Insular Area grantee that submits an abbreviated consolidated plan under this section must comply with the citizen participation requirements of 24 CFR 570.441.



---

[N] [60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995; 60 FR 4861, Jan. 25, 1995; 72 FR 12535, Mar. 15, 2007; 80 FR 42365, July 16, 2015; 85 FR 47909, Aug. 7, 2020; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021; 86 FR 30792, June 10, 2021]




