# ยง 20.202   Losses in transit.

(a) *Reporting losses.* Upon discovering any loss of specially denatured spirits while in transit, the carrier shall immediately inform the consignee, in writing, of the facts and circumstances relating to the loss. In the case of theft, the carrier shall also immediately notify the consignee's appropriate TTB officer of the facts and circumstances relating to the loss.


(b) *Recording losses.* At the time the shipment or report of loss is received, the consignee shall determine the quantity of specially denatured spirits lost. The consignee shall note the quantity lost on the receiving document and attach all relevant information to the record of receipt, prescribed in ยง 20.163. For the purpose of maintaining the records prescribed in subpart P of this part, receipts of specially denatured spirits will only include the quantity actually received.


(c) *Claims.* A claim for allowances of losses of specially denatured spirits will, as prescribed in ยง 20.205, be filed:


(1) If the quantity lost in transit exceeds one percent of the total quantity shipped and is more than 10 gallons, the consignee shall file a claim for allowance of the entire quantity lost; or


(2) If the loss was due to theft or other unlawful removal, the consignee shall file a claim for allowance of the entire quantity lost, regardless of the quantity or percentage involved.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9162, Mar. 6, 1985, as amended by T.D. TTB-140, 81 FR 59456, Aug. 30, 2016]




