# § 154.1125   Additional response plan requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a TAPAA facility shall include the following information in the Prince William Sound appendix to the response plan required by subpart F of this part:


(1) *Oil spill removal organization.* Identification of an oil spill removal organization that shall—


(i) Perform response activities; 


(ii) Provide oil spill removal and containment training, including training in the operation of prepositioned equipment for personnel, including local residents and fishermen, from the following locations in Prince William Sound: 


(A) Valdez;


(B) Tatitlek;


(C) Cordova;


(D) Whittier;


(E) Chenega; and


(F) Fish hatcheries located at Port San Juan, Main Bay, Esther Island, Cannery Creek, and Solomon Gulch.


(iii) Provide a plan for training, in addition to the personnel listed in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, sufficient numbers of trained personnel to remove, to the maximum extent practicable, a worst case discharge; and


(iv) Address the responsibilities required in § 154.1035(b)(3)(iii).


(2) *Exercises.* Identification of exercise procedures that must—


(i) Provide for two exercises of the oil spill removal organization each year that test the ability of the prepositioned equipment and trained personnel required under this subpart to perform effectively;


(ii) Consist of both announced and unannounced drills; and


(iii) Include design(s) for exercises that test either the entire appendix or individual components(s).


(3) *Testing, inspection, and certification.* Identification of a testing, inspecting, and certification program for the prepositioned response equipment required in § 154.1130 that must provide for—


(i) Annual testing and equipment inspection in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended procedures, to include—


(A) Start-up and running under load all electrical motors, pumps, power packs, air compressors, internal combustion engines, and oil recovery devices; and


(B) Removal for inspection of no less than one-third of required boom from storage annually, such that all boom will have been removed and inspected within a period of 3 years; and


(ii) Records of equipment tests and inspection.


(iii) Use of an independent entity to certify that the equipment is on-site and in good operating condition and that required tests and inspection have been preformed. The independent entity must have appropriate training and expertise to provide this certification.


(4) *Prepositioned response equipment.* Identification and location of the prepositioned response equipment required in § 154.1130 including the make, model, and effective daily recovery rate of each oil recovery resource.


(b) The owner or operator of a TAPAA facility shall submit to the COTP a schedule for the training and drills required by the geographic-specific appendix for Prince William Sound for the following calendar year.


(c) All records required by this section must be available for inspection by the COTP.




