# § 1915.34   Mechanical paint removers.

(a) *Power tools.* (1) Employees engaged in the removal of paints, preservatives, rusts, or other coatings by means of power tools shall be protected against eye injury by using goggles or face shields in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part. 


(2) All portable rotating tools used for the removal of paints, preservatives, rusts or other coatings shall be adequately guarded to protect both the operator and nearby workers from flying missiles.


(3) Portable electric tools shall be grounded in accordance with the requirements of § 1915.132.


(4) In a confined space, mechanical exhaust ventilation sufficient to keep the dust concentration to a minimum shall be used, or employees shall be protected by respiratory protective equipment in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part. 


(b) *Flame removal.* (1) Hardened preservative coatings shall not be removed by flame in enclosed spaces unless the employees exposed to fumes are protected by air line respirators in accordance with the requirements of subpart I. Employees performing such an operation in the open air, and those exposed to the resulting fumes shall be protected by a fume filter type respirator in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part. 


(2) Flame or heat shall not be used to remove soft and greasy preservative coatings.


(c) *Abrasive blasting*—(1) *Equipment.* Hoses and fittings used for abrasive blasting shall meet the following requirements:


(i) *Hoses.* Hose of a type to prevent shocks from static electricity shall be used.


(ii) *Hose couplings.* Hose lengths shall be joined by metal couplings secured to the outside of the hose to avoid erosion and weakening of the couplings.


(iii) *Nozzles.* Nozzles shall be attached to the hose by fittings that will prevent the nozzle from unintentionally becoming disengaged. Nozzle attachments shall be of metal and shall fit onto the hose externally.


(iv) *Dead man control.* A dead man control device shall be provided at the nozzle end of the blasting hose either to provide direct cutoff or to signal the pot tender by means of a visual and audible signal to cut off the flow, in the event the blaster loses control of the hose. The pot tender shall be available at all times to respond immediately to the signal.


(2) *Replacement.* Hoses and all fittings used for abrasive blasting shall be inspected frequently to insure timely replacement before an unsafe amount of wear has occurred.


(3) *Personal protective equipment.* (i) Abrasive blasters working in enclosed spaces shall be protected by hoods and air line respirators, or by air helmets of a positive pressure type in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part. 


(ii) Abrasive blasters working in the open shall be protected as indicated in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section except that when synthetic abrasive containing less than one percent free silica are used, filter type respirators approved jointly by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and the Mine Safety and Health Administration for exposure to lead dusts, used in conjunction with the proper eye, face and head protection, may be used in accordance with subpart I of this part. 


(iii) Employees, other than blasters, including machine tenders and abrasive recovery men, working in areas where unsafe concentrations of abrasive materials and dusts are present shall be protected by eye and respiratory protective equipment in accordance with the requirements of subpart I of this part. 


(iv) The blaster shall be protected against injury from exposure to the blast by appropriate protective clothing, including gloves.


(v) Since surges from drops in pressure in the hose line can be of sufficient proportions to throw the blaster off the staging, the blaster shall be protected by a safety belt when blasting is being done from elevations where adequate protection against falling cannot be provided by railings.



---

[N] [47 FR 16986, Apr. 20, 1982, as amended at 61 FR 26351, May 24, 1996]




