# ยง 308.148   Rights of witnesses.

In an investigation:


(a) Any person compelled or requested to furnish testimony, documentary evidence, or other information, shall upon request be shown and provided with a copy of the order initiating the proceeding; 


(b) Any person compelled or requested to provide testimony as a witness or to furnish documentary evidence may be represented by a counsel who meets the requirements of ยง 308.6 of the Uniform Rules. That counsel may be present and may: 


(1) Advise the witness before, during, and after such testimony; 


(2) Briefly question the witness at the conclusion of such testimony for clarification purposes; and 


(3) Make summary notes during such testimony solely for the use and benefit of the witness; 


(c) All persons testifying shall be sequestered. Such persons and their counsel shall not be present during the testimony of any other person, unless permitted in the discretion of the person conducting the investigation. Neither attorney(s) for the institution that is the subject of the investigation, nor attorney(s) for any other interested persons, shall have any right to be present during the testimony of any witness not personally represented by such attorney;


(d) In cases of a perceived or actual conflict of interest arising out of an attorney's or law firm's representation of multiple witnesses, the person conducting the investigation may require the attorney to comply with the provisions of ยง 308.8 of the Uniform Rules; and 


(e) Witness fees shall be paid in accordance with ยง 308.14 of the Uniform Rules. 



---

[N] [56 FR 37975, Aug. 9, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 62100, Nov. 16, 1999; 80 FR 5013, Jan. 30, 2015]




