# ยง 1261.6   Determination of member votes.

(a) *In general.* Each Bank shall determine, in accordance with this section, the number of votes that each member of the Bank may cast for each directorship that is to be filled by the vote of the members. 


(b) *Number of votes.* For each member directorship and each independent directorship that is to be filled in an election, each member shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of Bank stock that the member was required to hold as of the record date. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the number of votes that any member may cast for any one directorship shall not exceed the average number of shares of Bank stock required to be held as of the record date by all members located in the same State as of the record date. If a Bank has issued more than one class of stock, it shall calculate the average number of shares separately for each class of stock, using the total number of members in a State as the denominator, and shall apply those limits separately in determining the maximum number of votes that any member owning that class of stock may cast in the election. The number of shares of Bank stock that a member was required to hold as of the record date shall be determined in accordance with the minimum investment requirement established by the Bank's capital plan.


(c) *Voting preferences.* If the board of directors of a Bank includes any voting preferences as part of its approved capital plan, those preferences shall supersede the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section that otherwise would allow a member to cast one vote for each share of Bank stock it was required to hold as of the record date. If a Bank establishes a voting preference for a class of stock, the members with voting rights shall remain subject to the provisions of section 7(b) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1427(b)) that prohibit any member from casting any vote in excess of the average number of shares of stock required to be held by all members in its state. 



---

[N] [73 FR 55715, Sept. 26, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 51461, Oct. 7, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 17039, Apr. 5, 2010; 81 FR 76296, Nov. 2, 2016]




