# § 32.55-25   Venting of cargo tanks of tank barges constructed on or after July 1, 1951—B/ALL.

(a) *Venting required.* (1) On all tank barges, subject to the provisions of this subchapter the construction or conversion of which is started on or after July 1, 1951, each cargo tank shall be equipped with a vent. The diameter of a vent shall be not less than 2
1/2 inches. 


(2) In any case where a venting system is required for a particular grade of liquid, the venting system permitted for a higher grade of liquid may be used instead.


(b) *Grade A, B, or C liquids.* Cargo tanks in which Grade A, B, or C liquids are to be transported shall be fitted with either individual pressure-vacuum relief valves which shall extend to a reasonable height above the weather deck or shall be fitted with a venting system consisting of branch vent lines connected to a vent header which shall extend to a reasonable height above the weather deck and be fitted with a pressure-vacuum relief valve. The vent header system, if fitted, shall be provided with suitable connections for flushing and draining, and if desired, stop valves may be placed in the individual branch vent lines: *Provided,* That each such stop valve is bypassed by a pressure-vacuum relief valve. 


(c) *Grade D or E liquids.* Cargo tanks in which Grade D or E liquids only are to be transported shall be fitted with gooseneck vents and flame screens. 



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16671, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3709, Feb. 25, 1970]




