# ยง 13.3   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) *Claims.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a Person will be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,500 for each Claim (as adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-140), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-134)) if such Person Makes a Claim that such Person Knows or Has Reason to Know:


(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(ii) Includes or is supported by any written Statement that asserts a material fact that is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(iii) Includes or is supported by any written Statement that:


(A) Omits a material fact;


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and


(C) Is a Statement in which the Person Making such Statement has a duty to include such material fact; or


(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services that the Person has not provided as claimed.


(2) Each voucher, invoice, Claim form, or other Individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate Claim.


(3) A Claim will be considered Made to the Authority, recipient, or party when such Claim is actually Made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Authority, recipient, or party.


(4) Each Claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.


(5) If the Government has Made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a Claim, a Person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such Claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment will be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such Claim.


(b) *Statements.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a Person will be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $5,500 (as adjusted in accordance with the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-140), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-134)) if such Person Makes a written Statement that:


(i) The Person Knows or Has Reason to Know:


(A) Asserts a material fact that is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or


(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the Person Making the Statement has a duty to include in such Statement; and


(ii) Contains, or is accompanied by, an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the Statement.


(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate Statement.


(3) A Statement will be considered Made to the Authority when such Statement is actually Made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Authority.


(c) *Specific intent not required.* No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.


(d) *More than one Person liable.* (1) In any case in which it is determined that more than one Person is liable for Making a Claim or Statement under this section, each such Person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.


(2) In any case in which it is determined that more than one Person is liable for Making a Claim under this section on which the Government has Made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such Person or jointly and severally against any combination of such Persons.




