# ยง 84.79   Breathing gas; minimum requirements.

(a) Breathing gas used to supply apparatus shall be respirable and contain no less than 19.5 (dry atmosphere) volume percent of oxygen.


(b) Oxygen, including liquid oxygen, shall contain not less than 99.0 percent, by volume, of pure O_2_, not more than 0.03%, by volume, carbon dioxide, and not more than 0.001%, by volume, carbon monoxide. Methods for making these determinations can be found in the U.S. Pharmacopeia National Formulary. Containers used for oxygen must not be treated with any toxic, sleep-inducing, narcosis-producing, or respiratory tract irritating compounds.


(c) Compressed, gaseous breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type I gaseous air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G-7.1, 1966 (Grade D or higher quality). G-7.1 is incorporated by reference and has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, NY 10018. Copies may be inspected at the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(d) Compressed, liquefied breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type II liquid air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G-7.1, 1966 (Grade B or higher quality). G-7.1 is incorporated by reference and has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, NY 10018. Copies may be inspected at the NIOSH, National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 18070, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15236, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*


---

[N] [60 FR 30355, June 8, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 3907, Jan. 26, 2015]




