# § 3570.65   Processing preapplications and applications.

For combination proposals for loan and grant funds, only one preapplication package and one application package should be prepared and submitted. Preapplications and applications for grants will be developed in accordance with applicable portions of 7 CFR 1942.2, 1942.104, and 3575.52.


(a) *Preapplications.* Applicants will file an original and one copy of “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction),” with the appropriate Agency office. This form is available in all Agency offices. The preapplication and supporting documentation are used to determine applicant eligibility and priority for funding.


(1) All preapplications shall be accompanied by:


(i) Evidence of applicant's legal existence and authority; and


(ii) Appropriate clearinghouse agency comments.


(b) *Application processing.* Upon notification on “Notice of Preapplication Review Action” that the applicant is eligible for CFG funding, the applicant will be provided forms and instructions for filing a complete application. The forms required for a complete application, including the following, will be submitted to the processing office by the applicant:


(1) Updated “Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction).”


(2) Financial feasibility report.


(c) *Discontinuing the processing of the application.* If the applicant fails to submit the application and related material by the date shown on “Notice of Preapplication Review Action” (normally 60 days from the date of this form), the Agency will discontinue consideration of the application.




