# ยง 177.823   Movement of motor vehicles in emergency situations.

(a) A carrier may not move a transport vehicle containing a hazardous material unless the vehicle is marked and placarded in accordance with part 172 or as authorized in ยง 171.12a of this subchapter, or unless, in an emergency:


(1) The vehicle is escorted by a representative of a state or local government;


(2) The carrier has permission from the Department; or


(3) Movement of the transport vehicle is necessary to protect life or property.


(b) *Disposition of contents of cargo tank when unsafe to continue.* In the event of a leak in a cargo tank of such a character as to make further transportation unsafe, the leaking vehicle should be removed from the traveled portion of the highway and every available means employed for the safe disposal of the leaking material by preventing, so far as practicable, its spread over a wide area, such as by digging trenches to drain to a hole or depression in the ground, diverting the liquid away from streams or sewers if possible, or catching the liquid in containers if practicable. Smoking, and any other source of ignition, in the vicinity of a leaking cargo tank is not permitted.


(c) *Movement of leaking cargo tanks.* A leaking cargo tank may be transported only the minimum distance necessary to reach a place where the contents of the tank or compartment may be disposed of safely. Every available means must be utilized to prevent the leakage or spillage of the liquid upon the highway.



---

[N] [Amdt. 177-35, 41 FR 16130, Apr. 15, 1976, as amended by Amdt. 177-67, 50 FR 41521, Oct. 11, 1985; Amdt. 177-86, 61 FR 18933, Apr. 29, 1996]




