# § 1300.31   Equipment.

(a) *Title.* Except as provided in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, title to equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 will vest upon acquisition in the State or its subrecipient, as appropriate, subject to the conditions in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.


(b) *Use.* Equipment may only be purchased if necessary to perform eligible grant activities or if specifically authorized as an allowable use of funds. All equipment shall be used for the originally authorized grant purposes for as long as needed for those purposes, as determined by the Regional Administrator, and neither the State nor any of its subrecipients or contractors shall encumber the title or interest while such need exists.


(c) *Management and disposition.* Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b), (d), (e), and (f) of this section, States and their subrecipients and contractors shall manage and dispose of equipment acquired under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 and Section 1906 in accordance with State laws and procedures.


(d) *Major purchases and dispositions.* Equipment with a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $10,000 or more shall be subject to the following requirements:


(1) Purchases shall receive prior written approval from the Regional Administrator;


(2) Dispositions shall receive prior written approval from the Regional Administrator unless the equipment has exceeded its useful life as determined under State law and procedures.


(e) *Right to transfer title.* The Regional Administrator may reserve the right to transfer title to equipment acquired under this part to the Federal Government or to a third party when such third party is eligible under Federal statute. Any such transfer shall be subject to the following requirements:


(1) The equipment shall be identified in the grant or otherwise made known to the State in writing;


(2) The Regional Administrator shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after the equipment is determined to be no longer needed for highway safety purposes, in the absence of which the State shall follow the applicable procedures in 2 CFR parts 200 and 1201.


(f) *Federally-owned equipment.* In the event a State or its subrecipient is provided federally-owned equipment—


(1) Title shall remain vested in the Federal Government;


(2) Management shall be in accordance with Federal rules and procedures, and an annual inventory listing shall be submitted by the State;


(3) The State or its subrecipient shall request disposition instructions from the Regional Administrator when the item is no longer needed for highway safety purposes.



---

[N] [88 FR 7804, Feb. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 57357, July 15, 2024]




