# ยง 40.313   Disposition of tobacco products and schedule.

When so authorized, as evidenced by the appropriate TTB officer's statement on the schedule, the manufacturer shall dispose of the tobacco products (and destroy the stamps, if any) as specified in the schedule. After the manufacturer has disposed of the products (and destroyed the stamps, if any), he shall execute a certificate on both copies of the schedule returned to him by the appropriate TTB officer, to show the disposition and the date of disposition of the products (and stamps, if any). In connection with a claim for allowance the manufacturer then shall return the original of the schedule to the appropriate TTB officer who authorized such disposition, who will cause such schedule to be associated with the claim, TTB F 5620.8, filed under ยง 40.282. In connection with a claim for credit or refund the manufacturer shall attach the original of the schedule to his claim for credit, TTB F 5620.8, or claim for refund, TTB F 5620.8, filed under ยง 40.283. When an appropriate TTB officer is assigned to verify the schedule and supervise disposition of the tobacco products, such officer shall, upon completion of his assignment, execute a certificate on all copies of the schedule to show the disposition and the date of disposition of the products. In connection with a claim for allowance the officer shall return one copy of the schedule to be included in the manufacturers records, and in connection with a claim for credit or refund, the officer shall return the original and one copy of the schedule to the manufacturer, the original of which the manufacturer shall attach to the claim, TTB F 5620.8, filed under ยง 40.283.



---

[N] [T.D. 6871, 31 FR 39, Jan. 4, 1966. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-232, 51 FR 28083, Aug. 5, 1986; T.D. ATF-243, 51 FR 43194, Dec. 1, 1986; T.D. ATF-251, 52 FR 19340, May 22, 1987]




