# § 334.170   Chesapeake Bay, in the vicinity of Chesapeake Beach, Md.; firing range, Naval Research Laboratory.

(a) *The danger zone*—(1) *Area A.* A roughly rectangular area bounded on the north by latitude 38°39′55″; on the south by latitude 38°39′09″; on the east by longitude 76°31′03″; and on the west by the shore of Chesapeake Bay.


(2) *Area B.* The sector of a circle bounded by radii of 9,600 yards bearing 31° (to Bloody Point Bar Light) and 137°30′ (to Choptank River Approach Buoy 2), respectively, from the center at the southeast corner of building No. 3; excluding Area A.


(3) *Area C.* The segment of a circle inclosed by the arcs of two circles having radii of 9,600 yards and 13,200 yards, respectively, and bounded by the extended radii marking the north and south limits of Area B.


(4) *Area D.* A roughly rectangular area bounded on the north by an east-west line through Chesapeake Beach Light 2 at the entrance channel to Fishing Creek; on the south by an east-west line through Plum Point Shoal Buoy 1 northeast from Breezy Point; on the east by the established fishing structure limit line; and on the west by the shore of Chesapeake Bay.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No person or vessel shall enter or remain in Area A at any time.


(2) No person or vessel shall enter or remain in Area B or Area C between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. daily except Sundays, except that through navigation of commercial craft will be permitted in Area C at all times, but such vessels shall proceed on their normal course and shall not delay their progress.


(3) No fishing structures, other than those presently in established locations, which may be maintained, will be permitted to be established in Area D without specific permission from the Commanding Officer, Naval Research Laboratory.


(4) The areas will be in use throughout the year, and no further notice is contemplated that firing is continuing.


(5) Prior to the conduct of each firing practice a patrol vessel will patrol the range to warn navigation. “Baker” will be flown from a conspicuous point on the patrol vessel and from a prominent position on shore.


(6) This section shall be enforced by the Commander, Naval Base, Norfolk, Virginia, and such agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [13 FR 6916, Nov. 24, 1948, as amended at 17 FR 4832, May 28, 1952; 48 FR 54597, Dec. 6, 1983. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17552, Apr. 10, 1997]




