# § 721.10573   Magnesium hydroxide surface treated with substituted alkoxysilanes (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as magnesium hydroxide surface treated with substituted alkoxysilanes (PMN P-08-737) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(A) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting half-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(B) NIOSH-certified air-purifying, tight-fitting full-face respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(C) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a loose-fitting hood or helmet and high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters.


(D) NIOSH-certified powered air-purifying respirator equipped with a tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face) and HEPA filters.


(E) NIOSH-certified supplied-air respirator operated in pressure demand or continuous flow mode and equipped with a hood or helmet, or tight-fitting facepiece (either half-face or full-face).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 72l.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(l)(ii), (g)(l)(viii), and (g)(2)(iv).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(s) (100,000 kilograms).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 61146, Oct. 5, 2012]




