# ยง 0.167   Submission to Associate Attorney General by Director of Office of Alien Property of certain proposed allowances and disallowances.

In addition to the matters which he is required to submit to the Associate Attorney General under preceding sections of this subpart Y, the Director of the Office of Alien Property, shall submit to the Associate Attorney General for such review as he may desire to make the following: 


(a) Any proposed allowance by the Director, without hearing, of a title or debt claim.


(b) Any final determination of a title of debt claim, whether by allowance or disallowance.


(c) Any proposed allowance or disallowance by the Director, without hearing, of a title claim under section 9(a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, filed less than 2 years after the date of vesting in or transfer to the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General of the property or interest in respect of which the claim is made:


(1) Any title claim which involves the return of assets having a value of $50,000 or more, or any debt claim in the amount of $50,000 or more. 


(2) Any title claim which will, as a practical matter, control the disposition of related title claims involving, with the principal claim, assets having a value of $50,000 or more; or any debt claim which will, as a practical matter, control the disposition of related debt claims in the aggregate amount, including the principal claim, of $50,000 or more. 


(3) Any title claim or debt claim presenting a novel question of law or a question of policy which, in the opinion of the Director, should receive the personal attention of the Associate Attorney General or the Attorney General. 


(d) Any sale or other disposition of vested property involving assets of $50,000 or more.



---

[N] [Order No. 423-69, 34 FR 20388, Dec. 31, 1969, as amended by Order No. 445-70, 35 FR 19397, Dec. 23, 1970; Order No. 543-73, 38 FR 29587, Oct. 26, 1973; Order No. 568-74, 39 FR 18646, May 29, 1974; Order No. 699-77, 42 FR 15315, Mar. 21, 1977; Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52352, Oct. 27, 1981] 




