# § 206.3   Monthly report.

(a) *Do I need to provide monthly reports?* Each packer, as defined in § 206.1, must provide information for each swine processing plant that it operates or at which it has swine slaughtered that has the slaughtering capacity, alone or in combination with other plants, specified in the definition of packer.


(b) *When is the monthly report due?* Each packer must send a separate monthly report for each plant that has the slaughtering capacity, alone or in combination with other plants specified in the definition of packer in § 206.1. Each packer must deliver the report to the AMS Regional Office in Des Moines, Iowa, by the close of business on the 15th of each month, beginning at least 45 days after the initial submission of example contracts. If the 15th day of a month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday, the monthly report is due no later than the close of the next business day following the 15th.


(c) *What information do I need to provide in the monthly report?* The monthly report that each packer files must be reported on Form PSD 341, which will be available on the Internet on the AMS website (*https://www.ams.usda.gov*) and at USDA, AMS, Suite 317, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, Iowa 50309. In the monthly report, each packer must provide the following information:


(1) *Number of swine to be delivered under existing contracts.* Existing contracts are contracts the packer currently is using for the purchase of swine for slaughter at each plant. Each packer must provide monthly estimates of the number of swine committed to be delivered under all of its existing contracts (even if those contracts are not currently available for renewal or to additional producers) in each contract type as defined in § 206.1.


(2) *Available contracts.* Available contracts are the contracts the packer is currently making available to producers, or is making available for renewal to currently contracted producers, for the purchase of swine for slaughter at each plant. On the monthly report, a packer will indicate each contract type, as defined in § 206.1, that the packer is currently making available.


(3) *Estimates of committed swine.* Each packer must provide an estimate of the total number of swine committed under existing contracts for delivery to each plant for slaughter within each of the following 12 calendar months beginning with the 1st of the month immediately following the due date of the report. The estimate of total swine committed will be reported by contract type as defined in § 206.1.


(4) *Expansion clauses.* Any conditions or circumstances specified by clauses in any existing contracts that could result in an increase in the estimates specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Each packer will identify the expansion clauses in the monthly report by listing a code for the following conditions:


(i) Clauses that allow for a range of the number of swine to be delivered.


(ii) Clauses that require a greater number of swine to be delivered as the contract continues.


(iii) Other clauses that provide for expansion in the numbers of swine to be delivered.


(5) *Maximum estimates of swine.* The packer's estimate of the maximum total number of swine that potentially could be delivered to each plant within each of the following 12 calendar months, if any or all of the types of expansion clauses identified in accordance with the requirement in paragraph (c)(4) of this section are executed. The estimate of maximum potential deliveries must be reported for all existing contracts by contract type as defined in § 206.1.


(d) *What if a contract does not specify the number of swine committed?* To meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section, the packer must estimate expected and potential deliveries based on the best information available to the packer. Such information might include, for example, the producer's current and projected swine inventories and planned production.


(e) *When do I change previously reported estimates?* Regardless of any estimates for a given future month that may have been previously reported, current estimates of deliveries reported as required by paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(5) of this section must be based on the most accurate information available at the time each report is prepared.


(f) *Where and how do I send my monthly report?* Each packer must submit monthly reports required by this section by either of the following two methods:


(1) *Electronic report.* Information reported under this section may be reported by electronic means, to the maximum extent practicable. Electronic submission may be by any form of electronic transmission that has been determined to be acceptable to the Administrator. To obtain current options for acceptable methods to submit information electronically, contact PSD through the Internet on the AMS website (*https://www.ams.usda.gov*) or at USDA, AMS, Suite 317, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, Iowa 50309.


(2) *Printed report.* Each packer may deliver its printed monthly report to USDA, AMS, Suite 317, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, Iowa 50309.


(g) *What information from monthly reports will be made available to the public and when and how will the information be made available to the public?* (1) *Availability.* PSD will provide a monthly report of estimated deliveries by contract types as reported by packers in accordance with this section, for public release on the first business day of each month. The monthly reports will be available on the Internet on the AMS website (*https://www.ams.usda.gov*) and at USDA, AMS, Suite 317, 210 Walnut Street, Des Moines, Iowa 50309.


(2) *Regions.* Information in the report will be aggregated and reported by geographic regions. Geographic regions will be defined in such a manner to provide as much information as possible while maintaining confidentiality in accordance with section 251 of the Agricultural Marketing Act (7 U.S.C. 1636) and may be modified from time to time.


(3) *Reported information.* The monthly report will provide the following information:


(i) The existing contract types for each geographic region.


(ii) The contract types currently being made available to additional producers or available for renewal to currently contracted producers in each geographic region.


(iii) The sum of packers' reported estimates of the total number of swine committed by contract for delivery during the next 6 and 12 months beginning with the month the report is published. The report will indicate the number of swine committed by geographic reporting region and by contract type.


(iv) The types of conditions or circumstances as reported by packers that could result in expansion in the numbers of swine to be delivered under the terms of expansion clauses in the contracts at any time during the following 12 calendar months.


(v) The sum of packers' reported estimates of the maximum total number of swine that potentially could be delivered during each of the next 6 and 12 months if all expansion clauses in current contracts are executed. The report will indicate the sum of estimated maximum potential deliveries by geographic reporting region and by contract type.


(h) *Where and how do I file a waiver request?* The waiver request must be submitted in writing and include a statement that the packer does not procure swine using marketing agreements. The packer must send the waiver request to the PSD Regional Office in Des Moines, Iowa. If the waiver request is approved, PSD will inform the packer in writing that it has been granted a waiver for 12 months following the date of receipt of the waiver request unless the status of the packer changes during that year. The packer will be notified to submit the information required in this part if it begins using marketing agreements during the waiver period or if PSD determines that the packer utilizes marketing agreements.



---

[N] [75 FR 16642, Apr. 2, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 45649, Aug. 30, 2019; 88 FR 62696, Sept. 13, 2023]




