# § 610.60   Container label.

(a) *Full label.* The following items shall appear on the label affixed to each container of a product capable of bearing a full label: 


(1) The proper name of the product; 


(2) The name, address, and license number of manufacturer; 


(3) The lot number or other lot identification; 


(4) The expiration date; 


(5) The recommended individual dose, for multiple dose containers. 


(6) The statement: “ ‘Rx only’ ” for prescription biologicals.


(7) If a Medication Guide is required under part 208 of this chapter, the statement required under § 208.24(d) of this chapter instructing the authorized dispenser to provide a Medication Guide to each patient to whom the drug is dispensed and stating how the Medication Guide is provided, except where the container label is too small, the required statement may be placed on the package label.


(b) *Package label information.* If the container is not enclosed in a package, all the items required for a package label shall appear on the container label. 


(c) *Partial label.* If the container is capable of bearing only a partial label, the container shall show as a minimum the name (expressed either as the proper or common name), the lot number or other lot identification and the name of the manufacturer; in addition, for multiple dose containers, the recommended individual dose. Containers bearing partial labels shall be placed in a package which bears all the items required for a package label. 


(d) *No container label.* If the container is incapable of bearing any label, the items required for a container label may be omitted, provided the container is placed in a package which bears all the items required for a package label. 


(e) *Visual inspection.* When the label has been affixed to the container a sufficient area of the container shall remain uncovered for its full length or circumference to permit inspection of the contents.



---

[N] [38 FR 32056, Nov. 20, 1973, as amended at 47 FR 22518, May 25, 1982; 63 FR 66400, Dec. 1, 1998; 67 FR 4907, Feb. 1, 2002]




