# § 110.183   St. Johns River, Florida.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Anchorage A.* (Upper Anchorage) The Anchorage is established within the following coordinates, the area enclosed by a line starting at the south shore westerly of the entrance to Miller Creek at


(2) *Anchorage* B. (Lower Anchorage) The Anchorage is established within the following coordinates, the area enclosed by a line starting at a point on the eastern shore of the river at ‘Floral Bluff’ at


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Except in cases of emergency, only vessels meeting the conditions and restrictions of this paragraph will be authorized by the Captain of the Port to anchor in the St. Johns River, as depicted on NOAA chart 11491, between the entrance buoy (STJ) and the Main Street Bridge (in position 30°19′20″ N, 81°39′32″ W). Vessels unable to meet any of the following conditions and restrictions must obtain specific authorization from the Captain of the Port prior to anchoring in Anchorage A or B.


(2) All vessels intending to enter and anchor in Anchorage A or B shall notify the Captain of the Port prior to entering.


(3) Anchorages A and B are temporary anchorages. Additionally, Anchorage B is used as a turning basin. Vessels may not anchor for more than 24 hours in either anchorage without specific written authorization from the Captain of the Port.


(4) All vessels at anchor must maintain a watch on VHF-FM channels 13 and 16 by a person fluent in English, and shall make a security broadcast on channel 13 upon anchoring and every 4 hours thereafter.


(5) Anchorage A is restricted to vessels less than 250 feet in length.


(6) Anchorage B is restricted to vessels with a draft of 24 feet or less, regardless of length.


(7) Any vessel transferring petroleum products within Anchorage B shall have a pilot or Docking Master aboard, and employ sufficient assist tugs to assure the safety of the vessel at anchor and any vessels transiting the area.


(8) Any vessel over 300 feet in length within Anchorage B shall have a Pilot or Docking Master aboard, and employ sufficient assist tugs to assure the safety of the vessel at anchor and any vessels transiting the area.



---

[N] [CGD07-93-035, 60 FR 14220, Mar. 16, 1995, as amended by CGD07-99-023, 64 FR 42279, Aug. 4, 1999]




