# § 721.632   Silicoaluminophosphates, compd. with organic amine (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as Silicoaluminophosphates, compd. with organic amine (PMN P-98-1274) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (b) and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the section TSCA 5(e) consent order for these substances. The NCEL is 0.1 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average verified by actual monitoring data. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1) (vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). 


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 81398, Dec. 26, 2000]




