# § 351.528   Exchanges of undervalued currencies.

(a) *Currency undervaluation*—(1) *In general.* The Secretary normally will consider whether a benefit is conferred from the exchange of United States dollars for the currency of a country under review or investigation under a unified exchange rate system only if that country's currency is undervalued during the relevant period. In determining whether a country's currency is undervalued, the Secretary normally will take into account the gap between the country's real effective exchange rate (REER) and the real effective exchange rate that achieves an external balance over the medium term that reflects appropriate policies (equilibrium REER).


(2) *Government action.* The Secretary normally will make an affirmative finding under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if there has been government action on the exchange rate that contributes to an undervaluation of the currency. In assessing whether there has been such government action, the Secretary will not normally include monetary and related credit policy of an independent central bank or monetary authority. The Secretary may also consider the government's degree of transparency regarding actions that could alter the exchange rate.


(b) *Benefit*—(1) *In general.* Where the Secretary has made an affirmative finding under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary normally will determine the existence of a benefit after examining the difference between:


(i) The nominal, bilateral United States dollar rate consistent with the equilibrium REER; and


(ii) The actual nominal, bilateral United States dollar rate during the relevant time period, taking into account any information regarding the impact of government action on the exchange rate.


(2) *Amount of benefit.* Where there is a difference under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount of the benefit from a currency exchange normally will be based on the difference between the amount of currency the firm received in exchange for United States dollars and the amount of currency that firm would have received absent the difference referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Information sources.* In applying this section, the Secretary will request that the Secretary of the Treasury provide its evaluation and conclusion as to the determinations under paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 6043, Feb. 4, 2020]








