# § 203.8   Approval of mortgagees for Direct Endorsement Lender Review and Approval Process (DELRAP).

(a) *General.* Each mortgagee that chooses to participate in the review and approval of Condominium Projects, as set forth in § 203.43b, must be granted authority to participate in the Direct Endorsement Lender Review and Approval Process (DELRAP).


(b) *DELRAP Authority*—(1) *Eligibility.* To be granted DELRAP authority, as described in § 203.43b, a mortgagee must be unconditionally approved for the Direct Endorsement program as provided in § 203.3 and meet the following requirements:


(i) Have staff with at least one year of experience in underwriting mortgages on condominiums and/or Condominium Project approval;


(ii) Have originated no fewer than 10 condominium loans in projects approved by the Commissioner;


(iii) Have an acceptable quality control plan that includes specific provisions related to DELRAP; and


(iv) Ensure that staff members that participate in the approval of a Condominium Project using DELRAP authority meet the above requirements in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section or are supervised by staff that meet such requirements.


(2) *Conditional DELRAP Authority.* Mortgagees will be granted conditional DELRAP authority upon provision of notice to the Commissioner of the intent to use DELRAP. Mortgagees with conditional DELRAP authority must submit all recommended Condominium Project approvals, denials, and recertifications to FHA for review. If FHA agrees with the mortgagee's recommendation, it will advise the mortgagee that it may proceed with the recommended decision on the Condominium Project.


(3) *Unconditional DELRAP Authority.* Mortgagees will be granted unconditional DELRAP authority after completing at least five (5) DELRAP reviews, or such lower number of DELRAP reviews as HUD may specify, to the satisfaction of HUD, and may then exercise DELRAP authority to approve projects in accordance with requirements of HUD.


(c) *Reviews.* HUD will monitor a mortgagee's performance in DELRAP on an ongoing basis.


(1) If the review shows that there are no material deficiencies, subsequent project approvals, denials, or recertifications may be selected for post-action review based on a percentage as determined by the Commissioner.


(2) If the review shows that there are material deficiencies in the mortgagee's DELRAP performance, the mortgagee may be returned to conditional DELRAP status.


(3) If additional reviews continue to show material deficiencies in the mortgagee's DELRAP performance, the mortgagee's authority to participate in DELRAP may be terminated or other action taken against the mortgagee or responsible staff reviewer.


(d) *Termination of DELRAP Authority.* (1) HUD may immediately terminate the mortgagee's authority to participate in DELRAP or take any action listed in 24 CFR 203.3(d) if:


(i) The mortgagee violates any of the requirements and procedures established by the Secretary for mortgagees approved to participate in DELRAP, the Direct Endorsement program, or the Title II Single Family mortgage insurance program; or


(ii) HUD determines that other good cause exists.


(2) Such termination will be effective upon the date of receipt of HUD's notice advising of the termination.


(3) Notwithstanding any provisions of this section, the Commissioner reserves the right to take administrative action, including revocation of DELRAP authority, against any mortgagee and staff reviewer because of unacceptable performance. Any termination instituted under this section is distinct from withdrawal of mortgagee approval by the Mortgagee Review Board under 24 CFR part 25.


(e) *Reinstatement.* A mortgagee whose DELRAP authority is terminated under this section may request reinstatement if the mortgagee's DELRAP authority has been terminated for at least 6 months. In addition to addressing the eligibility criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the application for reinstatement must be accompanied by a corrective action plan addressing the issues that led to the termination of the mortgagee's DELRAP authority, along with evidence that the mortgagee has implemented the corrective action plan. The Commissioner may grant conditional DELRAP authority if the mortgagee's application is complete and the Commissioner determines that the underlying causes for the termination have been satisfactorily remedied. The mortgagee will be required to complete successfully at least five DELRAP reviews in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section in order to receive unconditional DELRAP authority as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 41874, Aug. 15, 2019]






