# § 1.6047-1   Information to be furnished with regard to employee retirement plan covering an owner-employee.

(a) *Trustees and insurance companies*—(1) *Requirement of return.* (i) Every trustee of a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) which makes payments of amounts described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph aggregating $10 or more during any calendar year to an individual (or his beneficiary) who was covered, within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.401-10, as an owner-employee under the plan of which such trust is a part shall make a return on Forms 1096 and 1099 for such year showing the name and address of the person to whom paid, the aggregate amount of such payments, specifically identified as an amount to which this paragraph applies, and such other information as is required by the forms. A separate Form 1099 shall be filed with respect to each payee. The term “owner-employee” means an owner-employee as defined in section 401(c)(3) and paragraph (d) of § 1.401-10. Any custodial account which satisfies the requirements of section 401(f) shall be treated as a qualified trust and the custodian of such a custodial account must comply with the requirements of this section as if he were the trustee.


(ii) Every issuer of a contract which is treated as an annuity contract under sections 401 through 404 purchased by a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) or under a plan described in section 403(a) which makes payments of amounts described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph aggregating $10 or more during any calendar year to an individual (or his beneficiary) who was covered, within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.401-10, as an owner-employee under the plan of which such trust is a part or under which such contract was purchased shall make a return on Forms 1096 and 1099 for such year showing the name and address of the person to whom paid, the aggregate amount of such payments, specifically identified as an amount to which this paragraph applies, and such other information as is required by the form. A separate Form 1099 shall be filed with respect to each payee.


(2) *Amounts subject to this section.* The amounts subject to reporting under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph include all amounts distributed or made available to which section 402(a) (relating to employees' trusts) or section 403(a) (relating to employee annuity plans) applies, whether or not such amounts are includible in gross income and whether or not attributable to contributions made while the individual to whom they relate was an owner-employee. However, amounts subject to reporting do not include any amounts distributed or made available by the trustee of any trust or the issuer of any contract under any plan with respect to which he has not received the notification provided in either subparagraph (3) of this paragraph or paragraph (b) of this section. Amounts distributed or made available under the plan include, for example, amounts received by the individual as loans on contracts purchased under the plan, and payments made to the individual by reason of the surrender of contracts purchased under the plan, whether or not prior to their maturity.


(3) *Notification by trustee.* The trustee of any trust described in section 401(a) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) who receives notification from any owner-employee that contributions have been made to the trust on behalf of that owner-employee as an owner-employee shall notify in writing the issuer of any contract which is treated as an annuity contract under sections 401 through 404 purchased by the trust for the benefit of that owner-employee that such contributions have been made to such trust. Such notification shall be delivered to such issuer at the time such contract is purchased or within 90 days after the notification required by paragraph (b) of this section is received by the trustee, whichever is later. Only one such notification must be made with respect to any contract.


(4) *Record keeping.* Any trustee, insurance company, or other person, which is referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph and which is notified under section 6047(b) that contributions to the trust or under the plan have been made on behalf of an owner-employee shall maintain a record of such notification until all funds of the trust or under the plan on behalf of the owner-employee have been distributed.


(5) *Inclusion of other payments.* The Form 1099 filed under this section by any person with respect to payments to another person during a calendar year may, at the election of the maker, include other payments made by him to such other person during such year which are required to be reported on Form 1099.


(6) *Time and place for filing.* The return required under this section for any calendar year shall be filed after the close of that year and on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the following year with any of the Internal Revenue Service Centers, the addresses of which are listed in the instructions for Form 1096. For extensions of time for filing returns under this section, see § 1.6081-1.


(b) *Notification by owner-employee.* Any owner-employee on behalf of whom contributions are made to a trust described in section 401(a) and exempt under section 501(a) or under a plan described in section 403(a) shall notify in writing:


(1) The trustee of such a trust, or


(2) The issuer of any contract which is treated as an annuity contract under sections 401 through 404 under such plan,


(c) *Penalties.* For civil penalty for failure to file a return required by this section, and for criminal penalty for furnishing fraudulent information under this section, see §§ 301.6652-3 and 301.7207-1 respectively.


(d) *Permission to submit information required by Form 1099 on magnetic tape.* For rules relating to permission to submit the information required by Form 1099 on magnetic tape or other media, see § 1.9101-1.



---

[N] [T.D. 6677, 28 FR 10147, Sept. 17, 1963, as amended by T.D. 6883, 31 FR 6589, May 3, 1966; T.D. 7551, 43 FR 29292, July 7, 1978; T.D. 8895, 65 FR 50407, Aug. 18, 2000]




