# § 385.3   Definitions and acronyms.

*Applicable safety regulations or requirements* means 49 CFR chapter III, subchapter B—Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations or, if the carrier is an intrastate motor carrier subject to the hazardous materials safety permit requirements in subpart E of this part, the equivalent State standards; and 49 CFR chapter I, subchapter C—Hazardous Materials Regulations.


*CMV* means a commercial motor vehicle as defined in § 390.5 of this subchapter.


*Commercial motor vehicle* shall have the same meaning as described in § 390.5 of this subchapter, except that this definition will also apply to intrastate motor vehicles subject to the hazardous materials safety permit requirements of subpart E of this part.


*FMCSA* means the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. 


*FMCSRs* mean Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (49 CFR parts 350-399). 


*HMRs* means the Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 171-180).


*Motor carrier operations in commerce* means commercial motor vehicle transportation operations either—


(1) In interstate commerce, or


(2) Affecting interstate commerce.


*New entrant* is a motor carrier not domiciled in Mexico that applies for a United States Department of Transportation (DOT) identification number in order to initiate operations in interstate commerce. 


*New entrant registration* is the registration (US DOT number) granted a new entrant before it can begin interstate operations in an 18-month monitoring period. A safety audit must be performed on a new entrant's operations within 12 months after receipt of its US DOT number for motor carriers of property and 120 days for motor carriers of passengers, and it must be found to have adequate basic safety management controls to continue operating in interstate commerce at the end of the 18-month period.


*PHMSA* means Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.


*Preventable accident* on the part of a motor carrier means an accident (1) that involved a commercial motor vehicle, and (2) that could have been averted but for an act, or failure to act, by the motor carrier or the driver.


*Reviews.* For the purposes of this part:


(1) *Compliance review* means an examination of motor carrier operations, such as drivers' hours of service, maintenance and inspection, driver qualification, commercial driver's license requirements, financial responsibility, accidents, hazardous materials, and other safety and transportation records to determine whether a motor carrier meets the safety fitness standard in this part. A compliance review may be conducted in response to a request to change a safety rating, to investigate potential violations of safety regulations by motor carriers, or to investigate complaints or other evidence of safety violations. The compliance review may result in the initiation of an enforcement action.


(2) *Safety audit* means an examination of a motor carrier's operations to provide educational and technical assistance on safety and the operational requirements of the FMCSRs and applicable HMRs and to gather critical safety data needed to make an assessment of the carrier's safety performance and basic safety management controls. Safety audits do not result in safety ratings.


(3) *Safety management controls* means the systems, policies, programs, practices, and procedures used by a motor carrier to ensure compliance with applicable safety and hazardous materials regulations which ensure the safe movement of products and passengers through the transportation system, and to reduce the risk of highway accidents and hazardous materials incidents resulting in fatalities, injuries, and property damage.


(4) *Roadability review* means an examination of the intermodal equipment provider's compliance with the applicable FMCSRs.


*Safety ratings.* (1) *Satisfactory safety rating* means that a motor carrier has in place and functioning adequate safety management controls to meet the safety fitness standard prescribed in § 385.5. Safety management controls are adequate if they are appropriate for the size and type of operation of the particular motor carrier.


(2) *Conditional safety rating* means a motor carrier does not have adequate safety management controls in place to ensure compliance with the safety fitness standard that could result in occurrences listed in § 385.5 (a) through (k).


(3) *Unsatisfactory safety rating* means a motor carrier does not have adequate safety management controls in place to ensure compliance with the safety fitness standard which has resulted in occurrences listed in § 385.5 (a) through (k).


(4) *Unrated carrier* means that a safety rating has not been assigned to the motor carrier by the FMCSA.



---

[N] [53 FR 50968, Dec. 19, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 40805, Aug. 16, 1991; 62 FR 60042, Nov. 6, 1997; 67 FR 12779, Mar. 19, 2002; 67 FR 31983, May 13, 2002; 69 FR 39367, June 30, 2004; 72 FR 36788, July 5, 2007; 73 FR 76818, Dec. 17, 2008; 75 FR 17240, Apr. 5, 2010; 77 FR 28450, May 14, 2012; 78 FR 58481, Sept. 24, 2013; 78 FR 60232, Oct. 1, 2013; 80 FR 59073, Oct. 1, 2015; 86 FR 35642, July 7, 2021; 87 FR 59036, Sept. 29, 2022]




