# ยง 410.1101   Process for placement of an unaccompanied child after referral from another Federal agency.

(a) ORR shall accept referrals of unaccompanied children, from any department or agency of the Federal Government at any time of day, every day of the year.


(b) Upon notification from any department or agency of the Federal Government that a child in its custody is an unaccompanied child and therefore must be transferred to ORR custody, ORR shall identify a standard program placement for the unaccompanied child, unless one of the listed exceptions in ยง 410.1104 applies, and notify the referring Federal agency within 24 hours of receiving the referring agency's notification whenever possible, and no later than within 48 hours of receiving notification, barring exceptional circumstances. ORR may seek clarification about the information provided by the referring agency as needed. In such instances, ORR shall notify the referring agency and work with the referring agency, including by requesting additional information, in accordance with statutory time frames.


(c) ORR shall work with the referring Federal Government department or agency to accept transfer of custody of the unaccompanied child, consistent with the statutory requirements at 8 U.S.C. 1232(b)(3).


(d) For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, ORR may be unable to timely identify a placement for and timely accept transfer of custody of an unaccompanied child due to exceptional circumstances, including:


(1) Any court decree or court-approved settlement that requires otherwise;


(2) An influx, as defined at ยง 410.1001;


(3) An emergency, including a natural disaster such as an earthquake or hurricane, a facility fire, or a civil disturbance;


(4) A medical emergency, such as a viral epidemic or pandemic among a group of unaccompanied children;


(5) The apprehension of an unaccompanied child in a remote location;


(6) The apprehension of an unaccompanied child whom the referring Federal agency indicates:


(i) Poses a danger to self or others; or


(ii) Has been charged with or has been convicted of a crime, or is the subject of delinquency proceedings, delinquency charge, or has been adjudicated delinquent, and additional information is essential in order to determine an appropriate ORR placement.


(e) ORR shall take legal custody of an unaccompanied child when it assumes physical custody from the referring agency.






