# § 831.1303   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Additional charges* means interest, penalties, and/or administrative costs owed on a debt.


*Annuitant* means a retired employee or Member of Congress, spouse, widower, or child receiving recurring benefits under the provisions of subchapter III, chapter 83, of title 5, United States Code.


*Compromise* is an adjustment of the total amount of the debt to be collected based upon the considerations established by the FCCS (4 CFR part 103).


*Consumer reporting agency* has the same meaning provided in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3).


*Debt* means a payment of benefits to an individual in the absence of entitlement or in excess of the amount to which an individual is properly entitled.


*Delinquent* has the same meaning provided in 4 CFR 101.2(b).


*FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards (Chapter II of title 4, Code of Federal Regulations).


*Offset* means to withhold the amount of a debt, or a portion of that amount, from one or more payments due the debtor. Offset also means the amount withheld in this manner.


*Reconsideration* means the process of reexamining an individual's liability for a debt based on—


(1) Proper application of law and regulation; and


(2) Correctness of the mathematical computation.


*Repayment schedule* means the amount of each payment and number of payments to be made to liquidate the debt as determined by OPM.


*Retirement fund* means the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.


*Voluntary repayment agreement* means an alternative to offset that is agreed to by OPM and includes a repayment schedule.


*Waiver* is a decision not to recover a debt under authority of 5 U.S.C. 8346(b).




