# ยง 95.979   CBRS unwanted emissions limits.

Each CBRS transmitter type must be designed to comply with the applicable unwanted emissions limits in this section.


(a) *Attenuation requirements.* The power of unwanted emissions must be attenuated below the transmitter output power in Watts (P) as specified in the applicable paragraphs listed in the following table:


(1) 25 dB (decibels) in the frequency band 4 kHz to 8 kHz removed from the channel center frequency;


(2) 25 dB in the frequency band 2 kHz to 6 kHz removed from the channel center frequency;


(3) 35 dB in the frequency band 8 kHz to 20 kHz removed from the channel center frequency;


(4) 35 dB in the frequency band 6 kHz to 10 kHz removed from the channel center frequency;


(5) 53 + 10 log (P) dB in any frequency band removed from the channel center frequency by more than 250% of the authorized bandwidth.


(6) 60 dB in any frequency band centered on a harmonic (*i.e.,* an integer multiple of two or more times) of the carrier frequency.


(b) *Measurement bandwidths.* The power of unwanted emissions in the frequency bands specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section is measured with a reference bandwidth of 300 Hz. The power of unwanted emissions in the frequency ranges specified in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section is measured with a reference bandwidth of at least 30 kHz.


(c) *Measurement conditions and procedures.* Subject to additional measurement standards and procedures established pursuant to part 2, subpart J, the following conditions and procedures must be used.


(1) The unwanted emissions limits requirements in this section must be met both with and without the connection of permitted attachments, such as external speakers, microphones, power cords and/or antennas.


(2) Either mean power output or peak envelope power output may be used for measurements, as appropriate for the emission type under test, provided that the same type of power measurement is used for both the transmitter output power and the power of the unwanted emissions.



---

[N] [82 FR 41104, Aug. 29, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 53565, Sept. 28, 2021]




