# § 1060.601   How do the prohibitions of 40 CFR 1068.101 apply with respect to the requirements of this part?

(a) As described in § 1060.1, fuel tanks and fuel lines that are used with or intended to be used with new nonroad engines or equipment are subject to evaporative emission standards under this part. This includes portable marine fuel tanks and fuel lines and other fuel-system components associated with portable marine fuel tanks. Note that § 1060.1 specifies an implementation schedule based on the date of manufacture of nonroad equipment, so new fuel tanks and fuel lines are not subject to standards under this part if they will be installed for use in equipment built before the specified dates for implementing the appropriate standards, subject to the limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, fuel-system components that are subject to permeation or diurnal emission standards under this part must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity before being introduced into U.S. commerce to avoid violating the prohibition of 40 CFR 1068.101(a). To the extent we allow it under the exhaust standard-setting part, fuel-system components may be certified with a family emission limit higher than the specified emission standard.


(b) New replacement fuel tanks and fuel lines must meet the requirements of this part 1060 if they are intended to be used with nonroad engines or equipment regulated under this part 1060, as follows:


(1) *Applicability of standards between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2019.* Manufacturers, distributors, retailers, and importers must clearly state on the packaging for all replacement components that could reasonably be used with nonroad engines how such components may be used consistent with the prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section. It is presumed that such components are intended for use with nonroad engines regulated under this part 1060 unless the components, or the packaging for such components, clearly identify appropriate restrictions. This requirement does not apply for components that are clearly not intended for use with fuels.


(2) *Applicability of standards after January 1, 2020.* Starting January 1, 2020, it is presumed that replacement components will be used with nonroad engines regulated under this part if they can reasonably be used with such engines. Manufacturers, distributors, retailers, and importers are therefore obligated to take reasonable steps to ensure that any uncertified components are not used to replace certified components. This would require labeling the components and may also require restricting the sales and requiring the ultimate purchaser to agree to not use the components inappropriately. This paragraph (b)(2) does not apply for components that are clearly not intended for use with fuels.


(3) *Applicability of the tampering prohibition.* If a fuel tank or fuel line needing replacement was certified to meet the emission standards in this part with a family emission limit below the otherwise applicable standard, the new replacement fuel tank or fuel line must be certified to current emission standards, but need not be certified with the same or lower family emission limit to avoid violating the tampering prohibition in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Manufacturers that generate or use evaporative emission credits related to Marine SI engines in 40 CFR part 1045 or Small SI engines in 40 CFR part 1054 are subject to the emission standards for which they are generating or using evaporative emission credits. These engines or equipment must therefore be covered by a valid certificate of conformity showing compliance with emission-credit provisions before being introduced into U.S. commerce to avoid violating the prohibition of 40 CFR 1068.101(a).


(e) If there is no valid certificate of conformity for any given evaporative emission standard for new equipment, the manufacturers of the engine, equipment and fuel-system components are each liable for violations of the prohibited acts with respect to the fuel systems and fuel-system components they have introduced into U.S. commerce, including fuel systems and fuel-system components installed in engines or equipment at the time the engines or equipment are introduced into U.S. commerce.


(f) If you manufacture fuel lines or fuel tanks that are subject to the requirements of this part as described in paragraph (a) of this section, 40 CFR 1068.101(a) does not prohibit you from shipping your products directly to an equipment manufacturer or another manufacturer from which you have received a written commitment to be responsible for certifying the components as required under this part 1060. This includes SHED-based certification of Small SI equipment as described in § 1060.105. If you ship fuel lines or fuel tanks under this paragraph (f), you must include documentation that accompanies the shipped products identifying the name and address of the company receiving shipment and stating that the fuel lines or fuel tanks are exempt under the provisions of 40 CFR 1060.601(f).


(g) If new evaporative emission standards apply in a given model year, your equipment in that model year must have fuel-system components that are certified to the new standards, except that you may continue to use up your normal inventory of earlier fuel-system components that were built before the date of the new or changed standards. For example, if your normal inventory practice is to keep on hand a one-month supply of fuel tanks based on your upcoming production schedules, and a new tier of standards starts to apply for the 2012 model year, you may order fuel tanks based on your normal inventory requirements late in the fuel tank manufacturer's 2011 model year and install those fuel tanks in your equipment, regardless of the date of installation. Also, if your model year starts before the end of the calendar year preceding new standards, you may use fuel-system components from the previous model year (or uncertified components if no standards were in place) for those units you produce before January 1 of the year that new standards apply. If emission standards do not change in a given model year, you may continue to install fuel-system components from the previous model year without restriction. You may not circumvent the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) by stockpiling fuel-system components that were built before new or changed standards take effect.


(h) If equipment manufacturers hold certificates of conformity for their equipment but they use only fuel-system components that have been certified by other companies, they may satisfy their defect-reporting obligations by tracking the information described in 40 CFR 1068.501(b)(1) related to possible defects, reporting this information to the appropriate component manufacturers, and keeping these records for eight years. Such equipment manufacturers will not be considered in violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(6) for failing to perform investigations, make calculations, or submit reports to EPA as specified in 40 CFR 1068.501. *See* § 1060.5(a).



---

[N] [73 FR 59298, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23027, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34532, June 29, 2021]




