# ยง 18.3   Development and adoption of equal employment opportunity programs.

(a) *Submission.* Within 90 days after the effective date of this part, the President shall furnish to the Secretary a positive continuing program to assure that employment is provided without discrimination. 


(b) *Development.* The President and the Secretary may consult with each other at any time regarding the development and evaluation of the program in order to better effectuate the purpose of this part. The program may be a part of a general program establishing employment procedures for employees of the university and may cover other rights and privileges of employees. 


(c) *Concurrence.* The Secretary may concur with the program proposed by the President. If the Secretary does not concur with the proposed program, he shall inform the President and make suggestions for improvement. The President will have 30 days thereafter to furnish a satisfactory proposal. 


(d) *Amendment.* After concurrence has been obtained on the program, the President may make recommendations to amend the program to improve its effectiveness and furnish them to the Secretary for concurrence. If the Secretary, at any time finds that a program, as implemented, does not achieve the purposes described in ยง 18.2, he shall confer with the President concerning needed improvements and changes. The President will furnish a satisfactory amendment to the Secretary within 30 days for concurrence. 


(e) *Effective date.* The program or amendments to it shall be made effective by the President not later than 30 days from the date of concurrence. 




