# ยง 2807.11   When must I contact BLM during operations?

You must contact BLM:


(a) At the times specified in your grant;


(b) When your use requires a substantial deviation from the grant. You must seek an amendment to your grant under ยง 2807.20 and obtain the BLM's approval before you begin any activity that is a substantial deviation;


(c) When there is a change affecting your application or grant, including, but not limited to, changes in:


(1) Mailing address;


(2) Partners;


(3) Financial conditions; or


(4) Business or corporate status;


(d) Whenever site-specific circumstances or conditions result in the need for changes to an approved right-of-way grant or lease, POD, site plan, mitigation measures, or construction, operation, or termination procedures that are not substantial deviations in location or use authorized by a right-of-way grant or lease. Changes for authorized actions, project materials, or adopted mitigation measures within the existing, approved right-of-way area must be submitted to us for review and approval;


(e) To identify and correct discrepancies or inconsistencies;


(f) When you submit a certification of construction, if the terms of your grant require it. A certification of construction is a document you submit to BLM after you have finished constructing a facility, but before you begin operating it, verifying that you have constructed and tested the facility to ensure that it complies with the terms of the grant and with applicable Federal and state laws and regulations; or


(g) When BLM requests it. You must update information or confirm that information you submitted before is accurate.



---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92222, Dec. 19, 2016]




