# § 387.313T   Forms and procedures.

(a) *Forms for endorsements, certificates of insurance and others*—(1) *In form prescribed.* Endorsements for policies of insurance and surety bonds, certificates of insurance, applications to qualify as a self-insurer, or for approval of other securities or agreements, and notices of cancellation must be in the form prescribed and approved by the FMCSA.


(2) *Aggregation of insurance.* (i) When insurance is provided by more than one insurer in order to aggregate security limits for carriers operating only freight vehicles under 10,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating, as defined in § 387.303T(b)(1), a separate *Form BMC 90,* with the specific amounts of underlying and limits of coverage shown thereon or appended thereto, and *Form BMC 91X* certificate is required of each insurer.


(ii) For aggregation of insurance for all other carriers to cover security limits under § 387.303T(b)(1) or (2), a separate Department of Transportation prescribed form endorsement and *Form BMC 91X* certificate is required of each insurer. When insurance is provided by more than one insurer to aggregate coverage for security limits under § 387.303T(c) a separate *Form BMC 32* endorsement and *Form BMC 34* certificate of insurance is required for each insurer.


(iii) For aggregation of insurance for foreign motor private carriers of nonhazardous commodities to cover security limits under § 387.303T(b)(4), a separate *Form BMC 90* with the specific amounts of underlying and limits of coverage shown thereon or appended thereto, or Department of Transportation prescribed form endorsement, and *Form BMC 91MX* certificate is required for each insurer.


(3) *Use of certificates and endorsements in BMC Series.* Form BMC 91 certificates of insurance will be filed with the FMCSA for the full security limits under § 387.303T(b)(1) or (2).


(i) *Form BMC 91X* certificate of insurance will be filed to represent full coverage or any level of aggregation for the security limits under § 387.303T(b)(1) or (2).


(ii) *Form BMC 90* endorsement will be used with each filing of *Form BMC 91* or *Form 91X* certificate with the FMCSA which certifies to coverage not governed by the requirements of the Department of Transportation. *Form BMC 32* endorsement and *Form BMC 34* certificate of insurance and *Form BMC 83* surety bonds are used for the limits of cargo liability under § 387.303T(c).


(iii) *Form BMC 91MX* certificate of insurance will be filed to represent any level of aggregation for the security limits under § 387.303T(b)(4).


(4) *Use of endorsements in MCS Series.* When Security limits certified under § 387.303T(b)(1) or (b)(2) involves coverage also required by the Department of Transportation a Form MCS endorsement prescribed by the Department of Transportation such as, and including, the Form MCS 90 endorsement is required.


(5) *Surety bonds.* When surety bonds are used rather than certificates of insurance, Form BMC 82 is required for the security limits under § 387.303T(b)(1) not subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, and Form MCS 82, or any form of similar import prescribed by the Department of Transportation, is used for the security limits subject also to minimum coverage requirements of the Department of Transportation.


(6) *Surety bonds and certificates in effect continuously.* Surety bonds and certificates of insurance shall specify that coverage thereunder will remain in effect continuously until terminated as herein provided, except:


(i) When filed expressly to fill prior gaps or lapses in coverage or to cover grants of emergency temporary authority of unusually short duration and the filing clearly so indicates; or


(ii) In special or unusual circumstances, when special permission is obtained for filing certificates of insurance or surety bonds on terms meeting other particular needs of the situation.


(b) *Filing and copies.* Certificates of insurance, surety bonds, and notices of cancellation must be filed with the FMCSA.


(c) *Name of insured.* Certificates of insurance and surety bonds shall be issued in the full and correct name of the individual, partnership, corporation or other person to whom the certificate, permit, or license is, or is to be, issued. In the case of a partnership, all partners shall be named.


(d) *Cancellation notice.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, surety bonds, certificates of insurance and other securities or agreements shall not be cancelled or withdrawn until 30 days after written notice has been submitted to the FMCSA at its offices in Washington, DC, on the prescribed form (*Form BMC-35,* Notice of Cancellation Motor Carrier Policies of Insurance under 49 U.S.C. 13906, and *BMC-36,* Notice of Cancellation Motor Carrier and Broker Surety Bonds, as appropriate) by the insurance company, surety or sureties, motor carrier, broker or other party thereto, as the case may be, which period of thirty (30) days shall commence to run from the date such notice on the prescribed form is actually received by the FMCSA.


(e) *Termination by replacement.* Certificates of insurance or surety bonds which have been accepted by the FMCSA under these rules may be replaced by other certificates of insurance, surety bonds or other security, and the liability of the retiring insurer or surety under such certificates of insurance or surety bonds shall be considered as having terminated as of the effective date of the replacement certificate of insurance, surety bond or other security, provided the said replacement certificate, bond or other security is acceptable to the FMCSA under the rules and regulations in this part.



---

[N] [82 FR 5308, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16226, Apr. 16, 2018; 84 FR 51434, Sept. 30, 2019]




