# § 800.136   How to request appeal inspection services.

(a) *General.* Requests shall be filed with the field office responsible for the area in which the original service was performed. Requests for Board appeal inspections may be filed with the Board of Appeals and Review or the field office that performed the appeal inspection. All requests shall include the information specified in § 800.46. Verbal requests shall be confirmed in writing when requested by official personnel as specified in § 800.46. Copies of request forms may be obtained from the field office upon request. If at the time the request is filed the documentation required by § 800.46 is not available, official personnel may, at their discretion, withhold service pending the receipt of the required documentation. An appeal inspection certificate will not be issued unless (1) documentation requested under § 800.46 has been submitted or (2) office personnel determine that sufficient information has been made available so as to perform the request. A record that sufficient information has been made available must be included in the record of the official service.


(b) *Filing requirements.* Requests will be considered filed on the date they are received by official personnel. A record shall be maintained for all requests. Requests must be filed (1) before the grain has left the specified service point where the grain was located when the original inspection was performed, (2) no later than the close of business on the second business day following the date of the last inspection, and (3) before the identity of the grain has been lost. If a representative file sample as prescribed in § 800.82 is available, official personnel may waive the requirements pursuant to this paragraph. The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be waived only upon written consent of the applicant and all interested persons. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section may be waived at the request of the applicant or other interested persons. The requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section may also be waived upon satisfactory showing by an interested person of evidence of fraud or that because of distance or other good cause, the time allowed for filing was not sufficient. A record of each waiver shall be included in the record of the appeal inspection service.



---

[N] [50 FR 45395, Oct. 31, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 5924, Feb. 7, 1989]




