# § 21.6140   Evaluation and improvement of rehabilitation potential.

(a) *General.* The services described in paragraph (d) of this section may be used to:


(1) Evaluate rehabilitation potential;


(2) Provide a basis for planning:


(i) A program of services and assistance to improve the veteran's potential for vocational rehabilitation; or


(ii) A vocational training program; and


(3) Reevaluate the vocational training potential of a veteran participating in a rehabilitation program.


(b) *Periods during which evaluation and improvement services may be provided.* Services described in paragraph (d) of this section may be provided during:


(1) An evaluation or reevaluation;


(2) Rehabilitation to the point of employability;


(3) Employment services.


(c) *Duration of services.* The duration of services needed to improve rehabilitation potential, furnished on a full-time basis either as a preliminary part of the period of rehabilitation to the point of employability or as the total program, may not exceed 9 months. If these services are furnished on a less than full-time basis the duration will be for the period necessary, but may not exceed the equivalent of 9 months of full-time training. See § 21.6310.


(d) *Scope of services.* Evaluation and improvement services include:


(1) Diagnostic services;


(2) Personal and work adjustment training;


(3) Medical care and treatment;


(4) Independent living services indispensable to pursuing a vocational training program;


(5) Language training, speech and voice correction, training in ambulation, and one-hand typewriting;


(6) Orientation, adjustment, mobility and related services; and


(7) Other appropriate services.


(e) *Applicability of chapter 31 rules.* the provisions of § 21.140 of this part are not applicable to this temporary program. The provisions of § 21.142 through § 21.156 of this part are applicable, subject to provisions of this section.


