# ยง 488.314   Survey teams.

(a) *Team composition.* (1) Surveys under sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Social Security Act must be conducted by an interdisciplinary team of professionals, which must include a registered nurse. 


(2) Examples of professionals include, but are not limited to, physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, physical, speech, or occupational therapists, registered professional nurses, dieticians, sanitarians, engineers, licensed practical nurses, or social workers. 


(3) The State determines what constitutes a professional, subject to CMS approval. 


(4) Any of the following circumstances disqualifies a surveyor for surveying a particular facility: 


(i) The surveyor currently works, or, within the past two years, has worked as an employee, as employment agency staff at the facility, or as an officer, consultant, or agent for the facility to be surveyed. 


(ii) The surveyor has any financial interest or any ownership interest in the facility. 


(iii) The surveyor has an immediate family member who has a relationship with a facility described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) or paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. 


(iv) The surveyor has an immediate family member who is a resident in the facility to be surveyed. For purposes of this section, an immediate family member is defined at ยง 488.301 of this part. 


(b) *CMS training.* CMS provides comprehensive training to surveyors, including at least the following: 


(1) Application and interpretation of regulations for SNFs and NFs. 


(2) Techniques and survey procedures for conducting standard and extended surveys. 


(3) Techniques for auditing resident assessments and plans of care. 


(c) *Required surveyor training.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the survey agency may not permit an individual to serve as a member of a survey team unless the individual has successfully completed a training and testing program prescribed by the Secretary. 


(2) The survey agency must have a mechanism to identify and respond to in-service training needs of the surveyors. 


(3) The survey agency may permit an individual who has not completed a training program to participate in a survey as a trainee if accompanied on-site by a surveyor who has successfully completed the required training and testing program. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56238, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50118, Sept. 28, 1995 as amended at 82 FR 36636, Aug. 4, 2017]




