# ยง 1003.15   Contents of the order to show cause and notice to appear and notification of change of address.

(a) In the Order to Show Cause, the Service shall provide the following administrative information to the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Omission of any of these items shall not provide the alien with any substantive or procedural rights:


(1) The alien's names and any known aliases;


(2) The alien's address;


(3) The alien's registration number, with any lead alien registration number with which the alien is associated;


(4) The alien's alleged nationality and citizenship;


(5) The language that the alien understands; 


(b) The Order to Show Cause and Notice to Appear must also include the following information:


(1) The nature of the proceedings against the alien;


(2) The legal authority under which the proceedings are conducted;


(3) The acts or conduct alleged to be in violation of law;


(4) The charges against the alien and the statutory provisions alleged to have been violated;


(5) Notice that the alien may be represented, at no cost to the government, by counsel or other representative authorized to appear pursuant to 8 CFR 1292.1;


(6) The address of the Immigration Court where the Service will file the Order to Show Cause and Notice to Appear; and 


(7) A statement that the alien must advise the Immigration Court having administrative control over the Record of Proceeding of his or her current address and telephone number and a statement that failure to provide such information may result in an *in absentia* hearing in accordance with ยง 1003.26.


(c) *Contents of the Notice to Appear for removal proceedings.* In the Notice to Appear for removal proceedings, the Service shall provide the following administrative information to the Immigration Court. Failure to provide any of these items shall not be construed as affording the alien any substantive or procedural rights.


(1) The alien's names and any known aliases;


(2) The alien's address;


(3) The alien's registration number, with any lead alien registration number with which the alien is associated;


(4) The alien's alleged nationality and citizenship; and


(5) The language that the alien understands.


(d) *Address and telephone number.* (1) If the alien's address is not provided on the Order to Show Cause or Notice to Appear, or if the address on the Order to Show Cause or Notice to Appear is incorrect, the alien must provide to the Immigration Court where the charging document has been filed, within five days of service of that document, a written notice of an address and telephone number at which the alien can be contacted. The alien may satisfy this requirement by completing and filing Form EOIR-33.


(2) Within five days of any change of address, the alien must provide written notice of the change of address on Form EOIR-33 to the Immigration Court where the charging document has been filed, or if venue has been changed, to the Immigration Court to which venue has been changed.



---

[N] [57 FR 11571, Apr. 6, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 34089, June 30, 1995; 62 FR 10332, Mar. 6, 1997]




