# ยง 2506.17   What must I do to obtain a review of my debt, and how will the review process work?

(a) *Request for review.* (1) You have the right to request a review by the Corporation of the existence or the amount of your debt, the proposed schedule for offset of Federal employee salary payments, or whether the debt is past due or legally enforceable. If you want a review, you must send a written request to the Corporation official designated in the notice (*see* ยง 2506.16(d)).


(2) You must sign your request for review and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses that support your position. Your request for review should be accompanied by available evidence to support your contentions.


(3) Your request for review must be received by the designated officer or employee of the Corporation on or before the 60th calendar day following the date of the notice. Timely filing will stay the commencement of collection procedures. The Corporation may consider requests filed after the 60-day period provided for in this section if you:


(i) Can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond your control; or


(ii) Did not receive notice of the filing deadline (unless you had actual notice of the filing deadline).


(b) *Inspection of the Corporation records related to the debt.* (1) If you want to inspect or copy the Corporation records related to the debt (*see* ยง 2506.14(a)(5)), you must send a letter to the Corporation official designated in the notice. Your letter must be received within 30 days of the date of the notice.


(2) In response to the timely request described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the designated Corporation official will notify you of the location and time when you may inspect and copy records related to the debt.


(3) If personal inspection of the Corporation records related to the debt is impractical, reasonable arrangements will be made to send you copies of those records.


(c) *Review official.* (1) When required by Federal law or regulation, such as in a salary offset situation, the Corporation will request an administrative law judge, or hearing official from another agency who is not under the supervision or control of the Chief Executive Officer, to conduct the review. In these cases, the hearing official will, following the review, submit the review decision to the Chief Executive Officer for the issuance of the Corporation's final decision (*see* paragraph (f) of this section for content of the review decision).


(2) When Federal law or regulation does not require the Corporation to have the review conducted by an administrative law judge, or by a hearing official from another agency who is not under the supervision or control of the Chief Executive Officer, the Corporation has the right to appoint a hearing official to conduct the review. In these cases, the hearing official will, following the review, submit the review decision to the Chief Executive Officer for the issuance of the Corporation's final decision (see paragraph (f) of this section for the content of the review decision).


(d) *Review procedure.* If you request a review, the review official will notify you of the form of the review to be provided. The review official will determine whether an oral hearing is required, or if a review of the written record is sufficient, in accordance with the FCCS. Although you may request an oral hearing, such a hearing is required only when a review of the documentary evidence cannot determine the question of indebtedness, such as when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or truthfulness. In either case, the review official will conduct the review in accordance with the FCCS. If the review will include an oral hearing, the notice sent to you by the review official will set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing.


(e) *Date of decision.* (1) The review official will issue a written decision, based upon either the written record or documentary evidence and information developed at an oral hearing. This decision will be issued as soon as practical, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the Corporation received your request for a review, unless you request, and the review official grants, a delay in the proceedings.


(2) If the Corporation is unable to issue a decision within 60 days after the receipt of the request for a hearing:


(i) The Corporation may not issue a withholding order or take other action until the review (in whatever form) is held and a decision is rendered; and


(ii) If the Corporation previously issued a withholding order to the debtor's employer, the Corporation must suspend the withholding order beginning on the 61st day after the receipt of the review request and continuing until a review (in whatever form) is held and a decision is rendered.


(f) *Content of review decision.* The review official will prepare a written decision that includes:


(1) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;


(2) The review official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and


(3) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable.


(g) *Interest, penalty charge, and administrative cost accrual during review period.* Interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs authorized by law will continue to accrue during the review period.




