# ยง 1631.3   Prior approval process.

(a) LSC shall grant prior approval of a cost listed in ยง 1630.6(b) of this chapter if the recipient has provided sufficient written information to demonstrate that the cost would be consistent with the standards and policies of this part. LSC may request additional information if necessary to make a decision on the recipient's request.


(b)(1) For purchases or leases of personal property, contracts for services, and capital improvements, LSC will make a decision to approve or deny a request for prior approval within 30 days of receiving materials LSC deems sufficient to decide. LSC will inform a recipient within 20 days of receiving the initial prior approval request whether LSC needs additional information to make a decision.


(2) For purchases of real estate, LSC will make a decision within 60 days of receiving materials LSC deems sufficient to decide. LSC will inform a recipient within 20 days of receiving the initial prior approval request whether LSC needs additional information to make a decision.


(3) If LSC cannot make a decision whether to approve the request within the allotted time, it will provide the requester with a date by which it expects to make a decision.


(c) If LSC denies a request for prior approval, LSC shall provide the recipient with a written explanation of the grounds for denying the request.


(d) *Exigent circumstances.* (1) A recipient may use more than $25,000 of LSC funds to purchase personal property or award a contract for services without seeking LSC's prior approval if the purchase or contract is necessary;


(i) To avoid imminent harm to the recipient's personnel, physical facilities, or systems;


(ii) To remediate or mitigate damage to the recipient's personnel, physical facilities or systems;


(iii) To avoid disruption to the recipient's client-service delivery system (e.g., an event that causes a recipient's telecommunications system to cease functioning); or


(iv) To respond to a natural disaster (e.g., a flood washes out roads leading to the recipient's offices such that the recipient must contract for services that will enable it to contact its clients).


(2) The recipient must provide LSC with a description of the exigent circumstances and the information described in ยง 1631.8(b) within 30 days after the circumstances necessitating the purchase or contract have ended.



---

[N] [82 FR 37341, Aug. 10, 2017; 82 FR 55053, Nov. 20, 2017]




