# ยง 1400.101   Minor children.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, payments received by a child under 18 years of age as of June 1 of the applicable crop, program, or fiscal year, including the person who is the beneficiary of a trust or who is an heir of an estate, will be attributed for the entire crop, program, or fiscal year to the parent receiving the greater amount of program payments subject to this part or to any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor.


(b) Payments received by a minor will not be attributed to the minor's parent or to any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor if all of the following apply:


(1) The minor is a producer on a farm and the minor's parents or any court-appointed person such as guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor, does not have any interest in the farm;


(2) The minor has established and maintains a separate household from the minor's parents or any court-appointed person such as a guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor, and the minor personally carries out the farming activities with respect to the minor's farming operation for which there is a separate accounting; and


(3) The minor does not live in the same household as the minor's parents and:


(i) Is represented by a court-appointed guardian or conservator who is responsible for the minor and


(ii) Ownership of the farm is vested in the minor.


(c) A person will be considered to be a minor until the age 18 is reached. Court proceedings conferring majority on a person under 18 years of age will not change the person's status as a minor.



---

[N] [73 FR 79273, Dec. 29, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 899, Jan. 7, 2010; 85 FR 52038, Aug. 24, 2020]




