# ยง 63.1065   Recordkeeping requirements.

The owner or operator shall keep the records required in paragraph (a) of this section for as long as liquid is stored. Records required in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section shall be kept for at least 5 years. Records shall be kept in such a manner that they can be readily accessed within 24 hours. Records may be kept in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.


(a) *Vessel dimensions and capacity.* A record shall be kept of the dimensions of the storage vessel, an analysis of the capacity of the storage vessel, and an identification of the liquid stored.


(b) *Inspection results.* Records of floating roof inspection results shall be kept as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(1) If the floating roof passes inspection, a record shall be kept that includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section. If the floating roof fails inspection, a record shall be kept that includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(v) of this section.


(i) Identification of the storage vessel that was inspected.


(ii) The date of the inspection.


(iii) A description of all inspection failures.


(iv) A description of all repairs and the dates they were made.


(v) The date the storage vessel was removed from service, if applicable.


(2) A record shall be kept of EFR seal gap measurements, including the raw data obtained and any calculations performed.


(c) *Floating roof landings.* The owner or operator shall keep a record of the date when a floating roof is set on its legs or other support devices. The owner or operator shall also keep a record of the date when the roof was refloated, and the record shall indicate whether the process of refloating was continuous.


(d) An owner or operator who elects to use an extension in accordance with ยง 63.1063(e)(2) or ยง 63.1063(c)(2)(iv)(B) shall keep the documentation required by those paragraphs.




