# § 62.15   Reporting requirements.

(a) Sponsors must submit annual reports to the Department of State that are generated through SEVIS on Form DS-3097. Such reports must be filed on an academic, calendar, or fiscal year basis, as directed by the Department of State in the sponsor's letter of designation or redesignation, and must contain the following:


(1) *Program report and evaluation.* A summary of the activities in which exchange visitors were engaged, including an evaluation of program effectiveness, program difficulties, and number of staff used in the administration of the exchange visitor program;


(2) *Reciprocity.* A description of the nature and extent of reciprocity occurring in the sponsor's exchange visitor program during the reporting year;


(3) *Cross-cultural activities.* A description of the cross-cultural activities the sponsor provided for its exchange visitors during the reporting year;


(4) *Proof of insurance.* Certification of compliance with insurance coverage requirements set forth in § 62.14;


(5) *Certification.* The following certification:


(i) For exchange visitor programs classified as “Government Programs,” this certification will be signed by the Responsible Officer.


(ii) For exchange visitor programs classified as P-1 or P-2 “Academic Programs” this certification will be signed by the institution's Chief Executive Officer or Responsible Officer.


(iii) For exchange visitor programs classified as P-3 and P-4 “Private Sector Programs,” this certification will be signed by the organization's Chief Executive Officer or Responsible Officer.


(6) *Program participation.* A numerical count of all exchange visitors participating in the sponsor's program for the reporting year (*i.e.*, by category, form usage, active status at one point during the annual cycle, and by other status).


(b) Sponsors of P-3 and P-4 “Private Sector” programs must file a program specific management review (in a format and on a schedule approved by the Department of State).



---

[N] [79 FR 60307, Oct. 6, 2014]




