# ยง 403.736   Condition of participation: Discharge planning.

(a) *Discharge planning and instructions.* The RNHCI must have in effect a discharge planning process that applies to all patients. The process must assure that appropriate post-institution services are obtained for each patient, as necessary. The RNHCI must assess the need for a discharge plan for any patient likely to suffer adverse consequences if there is no planning.


(1) Discharge instructions must be provided at the time of discharge to the patient or the patient's caregiver as necessary.


(2) If the patient assessment indicates a need for a discharge plan, the discharge plan must include instructions on post-RNHCI care to be used by the patient or the caregiver in the patient's home, as identified in the discharge plan.


(3) If the RNHCI's patient assessment does not indicate a need for a discharge plan, the beneficiary or his or her legal representative may request a discharge plan. In this case, the RNHCI must develop a discharge plan for the beneficiary.


(b) *Standard: Transfer or referral.* The RNHCI must transfer or refer patients in a timely manner to another facility (including a medical facility if requested by the beneficiary, or his or her legal representative) in accordance with ยง 403.730(b)(2).


(c) *Standard: Reassessment.* The RNHCI must reassess its discharge planning process on an ongoing basis. The reassessment must include a review of discharge plans to ensure that they are responsive to discharge needs.



---

[N] [64 FR 67047, Nov. 30, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 66720, Nov. 28, 2003; 84 FR 51813, Sept. 30, 2019]




