# ยง 28.270   Instruction, drills, and safety orientation.

(a) *Drills and instruction.* The master or individual in charge of each vessel must ensure that drills are conducted and instruction is given to each individual on board at least once each month. Instruction may be provided in conjunction with drills or at other times and places provided it ensures that each individual is familiar with their duties and their responses to at least the following contingencies: 


(1) Abandoning the vessel; 


(2) Fighting a fire in different locations on board the vessel; 


(3) Recovering an individual from the water; 


(4) Minimizing the effects of unintentional flooding; 


(5) Launching survival craft and recovering lifeboats and rescue boats; 


(6) Donning immersion suits and other wearable personal flotation devices; 


(7) Donning a fireman's outfit and a self-contained breathing apparatus, if the vessel is so equipped; 


(8) Making a voice radio distress call and using visual distress signals; 


(9) Activating the general alarm; and 


(10) Reporting inoperative alarm systems and fire detection systems. 


(b) *Participation in drills.* Drills must be conducted on board the vessel as if there were an actual emergency and must include participation by all individuals on board, breaking out and using emergency equipment, testing of all alarm and detection systems, donning protective clothing, and donning immersion suits, if the vessel is so equipped. 


(c) *Training.* No individual may conduct the drills or provide the instructions required by this section unless that individual has been trained in the proper procedures for conducting the activity.


(d) The viewing of videotapes concerning at least the contingencies listed in paragraph (a) of this section, whether on board the vessel or not, followed by a discussion led by an individual familiar with these contingencies will satisfy the requirement for instruction but not the requirement for drills in paragraph (b) of this section or for the safety orientation in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(e) *Safety orientation.* The master or individual in charge of a vessel must ensure that a safety orientation is given to each individual on board that has not received the instruction and has not participated in the drills required by paragraph (a) of this section before the vessel may be operated. 


(f) The safety orientation must explain the emergency instructions required by ยง 28.265 and cover the specific evolutions listed in paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [CGD 88-079, 56 FR 40393, Aug. 14, 1991, as amended by CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48048, Sept. 18, 1995; CGD 96-046, 61 FR 57275, Nov. 5, 1996, CGD 96-046, 62 FR 46677, Sept. 4, 1997; USCG-2002-13058, 67 FR 61278, Sept. 30, 2002]




