# ยง 1205.26   Eligibility.

Only persons who meet the eligibility requirements in this subpart may participate in the sign-up period. No person is entitled to sign up more than once.


(a) Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following persons are eligible to request the conduct of a continuance referendum:


(1) Any person who was engaged in the production of Upland cotton during calendar year 2020; and


(2) Any person who was an importer of Upland cotton during calendar year 2020.


(b) A general partnership is not eligible to request a continuance referendum, however, the individual partners of an eligible general partnership are each entitled to submit a request.


(c) Where a group of individuals is engaged in the production of Upland cotton under the same lease or cropping agreement, only the individual or individuals who signed or entered into the lease or cropping agreement are eligible to participate in the sign-up period. Individuals who are engaged in the production of Upland cotton as joint tenants, tenants in common, or owners of community property, are each entitled to submit a request if they share in the proceeds of the required crop as owners, cash tenants, share tenants, sharecroppers or landlords of a fixed rent, standing rent or share tenant.


(d) An officer or authorized representative of a qualified corporation, association, or limited partnership may submit a request on behalf of that corporation, association, or limited partnership. 


(e) A guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of any qualified estate or trust may submit a request on behalf of that estate or trust.


(f) An individual may not submit a request on behalf of another individual.


(g) Participation in the sign-up by proxy or power of attorney is not authorized. 



---

[N] [62 FR 1660, Jan. 13, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 21169, Apr. 30, 2002; 72 FR 51160, Sept. 6, 2007; 80 FR 36233, June 24, 2015; 86 FR 20257, Apr. 19, 2021]




