# § 211.5   Regulatory docket.

(a)(1) Records of the Federal Railroad Administration created after November 1, 1998, concerning each proceeding subject to this part are maintained in current docket form by the Federal Docket Management System. These records include rulemaking and waiver petitions, emergency orders, notices, comments received in response to notices, hearing transcripts, final rules, denials of rulemaking petitions, grants and denial of waiver and other petitions. Also included are records pertaining to applications for special approval under §§ 211.55 and 238.21 of this chapter, petitions for grandfathering approval under § 238.203 of this chapter, signal applications under parts 235 and 236 of this chapter, and informal safety inquiries under § 211.61.


(2) Any person may examine docketed material created after November 1, 1998:


(i) At the U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations (M-30), West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. Copies of docketed materials may be obtained upon payment of the fees prescribed by the Federal Docket Management System, or


(ii) Through the Internet at *http://www.regulations.gov.* All docketed materials are available for viewing and may be downloaded for electronic storage or printing. There is no charge for this service.


(b) Records of the Federal Railroad Administration created before November 1, 1998, concerning each proceeding subject to this part are available in FRA's Docket Office, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590. Any person may examine docketed material at that location during normal business hours. Copies of docketed material may be obtained upon payment of the fees prescribed in part 7 of this title.


(c) Any person may examine docketed material in the office where it is maintained. Copies of docketed material other than commercially prepared transcripts may be obtained upon payment of the fees prescribed in part 7 of this title.



---

[N] [41 FR 54181, Dec. 13, 1976, as amended at 64 FR 70195, Dec. 16, 1999; 74 FR 25171, May 27, 2009]




