# ยง 311.8   Transcripts and minutes of meetings.

(a) *When required.* The Corporation will maintain a complete transcript, identifying each speaker, to record fully the proceedings of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public, except that in the case of a meeting or portions of a meeting closed to the public pursuant to paragraph (b)(8), (9)(i), or (10) of ยง 311.3, the Corporation may, in lieu of a transcript, maintain a set of minutes. 


(b) *Content of minutes.* If minutes are maintained, they will fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and will provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons for taking such action. Minutes will also include a description of each of the views expressed by each person in attendance on any item and the record of any roll call vote, reflecting the vote of each member. All documents considered in connection with any action will be identified in the minutes. 


(c) *Available material.* The Corporation will maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript or minutes of each meeting or portion of a meeting closed to the public for a period of at least 2 years after the meeting, or until 1 year after the conclusion of any proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later. The Corporation will make promptly available to the public the transcript, identifying each speaker, or minutes of items on the agenda or testimony of any witness received at the closed meeting except that in cases where the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) does not apply, the Corporation may withhold information exempt from disclosure under ยง 311.3(b). For the convenience of members of the public who may be unable to attend open meetings of the Board, the Corporation will maintain for at least 2 years a set of minutes of each meeting of the Board or portion thereof open to public observation. 


(d) *Procedures for inspecting or copying available material.* (1) An individual may inspect materials made available under paragraph (c) of this section at the offices of the Executive Secretary, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429, during normal business hours. If the individual desires a copy of such material, the Corporation will furnish copies at a cost of 10 cents per page. Whenever the Corporation determines that in the public interest a reduction or waiver is warranted, it may reduce or waive any fees imposed under this section. 


(2) An individual may also submit a written request for transcripts or minutes, reasonably identifying the records sought, to the Executive Secretary, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429. 


(e) *Procedures for obtaining documents identified in minutes.* Copies of documents identified in minutes or considered by the Board in connection with any action identified in the minutes may be made available to the public upon request, to the extent permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, under the provisions of 12 CFR part 309, Disclosure of Information. 



---

[N] [42 FR 14675, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended at 61 FR 38357, July 24, 1996; 67 FR 71071, Nov. 29, 2002]




