# § 922.11   Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply to this part, unless modified by the definitions for a specific subpart or regulation:


*Abandoning* means leaving without intent to remove any structure, material, or other matter on or in the seabed or submerged lands of a Sanctuary. For Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve, abandoning means leaving without intent to remove any structure, material or other matter on the lake bottom associated with underwater cultural resources.


*Act or NMSA* means title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1431 *et seq.,* also known as the National Marine Sanctuaries Act.


*Assistant Administrator* means the Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) or designee.


*Attract or attracting* means the conduct of any activity that lures or may lure any animal by using food, bait, chum, dyes, decoys (e.g., surfboards or body boards used as decoys), acoustics or any other means, except the mere presence of human beings (e.g., swimmers, divers, boaters, kayakers, surfers).


*Benthic community* means the assemblage of organisms, substrate, and structural formations found at or near the sea/ocean/lake bottom that is periodically or permanently covered by water.


*Clean* means not containing detectable levels of harmful matter*.*

*Commercial fishing* means any activity that results in the sale or trade for intended profit of fish, shellfish, algae, or corals.


*Conventional hook and line gear* means any fishing gear composed of a single line terminated by a combination of sinkers and hooks or lures and spooled upon a reel that may be hand, electrically, or hydraulically operated, regardless of whether mounted. This term does not include longlines.


*Cruise ship* means any vessel with 250 or more passenger berths for hire.


*Cultural resource* means any historical or cultural feature, including archaeological sites, historic structures, shipwrecks, and artifacts.


*Deserting* means leaving a vessel aground, adrift, wrecked, junked, or in a substantially dismantled condition without notification to the Director of the vessel going aground or becoming adrift, wrecked, junked, or substantially dismantled within 12 hours of its discovery and developing and presenting to the Director a preliminary salvage plan within 24 hours of such notification; after expressing or otherwise manifesting intention not to undertake or to cease salvage efforts, or when the owner/operator cannot after reasonable efforts by the Director be reached within 12 hours of the vessel's condition being reported to authorities; or leaving a vessel at anchor when its condition creates potential for a grounding, discharge, or deposit and the owner/operator fails to secure the vessel in a timely manner.


*Director* means, except where otherwise specified, the Director of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries or designee.


*Effective date* means the date of final regulations described and published in the _Federal Register._ For regulations governing the designation of a new sanctuary or revising terms of designation, effective date means the date after the close of the review period of the 45th day of continuous session of Congress following submission of the _Federal Register_ document of the designation together with final regulations to implement the designation and any other matters required by law, unless the Governor of any state in which the sanctuary is completely or partially located certifies that the designation or any of its terms is unacceptable pursuant to section 304(b) of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (NMSA) (16 U.S.C. 1434(b)).


*Exclusive economic zone* means the zone established by Proclamation 5030, dated March 10, 1983, and as defined in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended 16 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*

*Fish* means finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all other forms of marine animal and plant life other than marine mammals and birds, as defined in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1802(12)).


*Graywater* means graywater as defined by section 312 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1322.


*Harmful matter* means any substance, or combination of substances, that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may pose a present or potential threat of injury to Sanctuary resources or qualities. Such substances or combination of substances may include, but is not limited to: fishing nets, fishing line, hooks, fuel, oil, and hazardous substances as defined by the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. 9601(14) and designated at 40 CFR 302.4.


*Historical resource* means any resource possessing historical, cultural, archaeological or paleontological significance, including a site, contextual information, structure, district, and object significantly associated with or representative of earlier people, culture, maritime heritage, and human activities and events. Historical resource includes “cultural resource,” “submerged cultural resource,” and “historical property” as that term is used in the National Historic Preservation Act, as amended, 54 U.S.C. 300101 *et seq.* and its implementing regulations, as amended.


*Indian tribe* means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 5130.


*Injure or injury* means to change adversely, either in the short or long term, a chemical, biological or physical attribute, or the viability, of a sanctuary resource. This includes, but is not limited to, to cause the loss of or destroy.


*Introduced species* means any species (including, but not limited to, any of its biological matter capable of propagation) that is non-native to the ecosystems of the Sanctuary; or any organism into which altered genetic matter, or genetic matter from another species, has been transferred in order that the host organism acquires the genetic traits of the transferred genes.


*Inventory* means a list of selected natural and historical resource sites selected by the Secretary as qualifying for further evaluation for possible designation as National Marine Sanctuaries.


*Lawful fishing* means fishing authorized by a tribal, State or Federal entity with jurisdiction over the activity.


*Lightering* means at-sea transfer of petroleum-based products, materials, or other matter from vessel to vessel.


*Marine* means those areas of coastal and ocean waters, the Great Lakes and their connecting waters, and submerged lands over which the United States exercises jurisdiction, including the exclusive economic zone, consistent with international law.


*Mineral* means clay, stone, sand, gravel, metalliferous ore, non-metalliferous ore, or any other solid material or other matter of commercial value.


*National historic landmark* means a district, site, building, structure or object designated as such by the Secretary of the Interior under the National Historic Landmarks Program (36 CFR part 65).


*National Marine Sanctuary or Sanctuary* means an area of the marine environment of special national significance designated as such by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) pursuant to the Act or by Congress pursuant to legislation.


*Person* means any private individual, partnership, corporation or other entity; or any officer, employee, agent, department, agency or instrumentality of the Federal government, of any State or local unit of government, or of any foreign government.


*Regional Fishery Management Council* means any fishery council established under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*

*Sanctuary quality* means any of those ambient conditions, physical-chemical characteristics and natural processes, the maintenance of which is essential to the ecological health of a national marine sanctuary, including, but not limited to, water quality, sediment quality, and air quality.


*Sanctuary resource* means any living or non-living resource of a national marine sanctuary, or the parts or products thereof, that contributes to the conservation, recreational, ecological, historical, educational, cultural, archaeological, scientific, or aesthetic value of the national marine sanctuary, including, but not limited to, waters of the sanctuary, the seabed or submerged lands of the sanctuary, other submerged features and the surrounding seabed, carbonate rock, corals and other bottom formations, coralline algae and other marine plants and algae, marine invertebrates, brine-seep biota, phytoplankton, zooplankton, fish, birds, sea turtles and other marine reptiles, marine mammals, and maritime heritage, cultural, archaeological, and historical resources. For Thunder Bay National Marine Sanctuary and Underwater Preserve, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.191. For Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.182. For Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary, Sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.201(a). For Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National Marine Sanctuary, sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.211. For Lake Ontario National Marine Sanctuary, sanctuary resource is defined at § 922.221.


*Seagrass* means any species of marine angiosperms (flowering plants) that inhabits a portion of the seabed in a national marine sanctuary. Those species include, but are not limited to: *Zostera asiatica* (Asian eelgrass), *Zostera marina* (eelgrass/common eelgrass); *Thalassia testudinum* (turtle grass); *Syringodium filiforme* (manatee grass); *Halodule wrightii* (shoal grass); *Halophila decipiens* (paddle grass), *H. engelmannii (*Engelmann's seagrass), *H. johnsonii* (Johnson's seagrass); and *Ruppia maritima* (widgeon grass).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the United States Department of Commerce, or designee.


*Shunt* means to discharge expended drilling cuttings and fluids near the ocean seafloor.


*State* means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.


*Subsistence use* means the customary and traditional use by rural residents of areas near or in the marine environment for direct personal or family consumption as food, shelter, fuel, clothing, tools, or transportation; for the making and selling of handicraft articles; and for barter, if for food or non-edible items other than money, if the exchange is of a limited and non-commercial nature.


*Take (taking or taken) of a marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird* means:


(1) Take as that term is defined in section 3(19) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1532(19) (ESA);


(2) Take as that term is defined in section 3(13) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1362(13) (MMPA); or


(3) Conducting an activity prohibited by section 703 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 703 (MBTA).


(4) For purposes of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this definition, take also includes, but is not limited to, collection of any dead or injured marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, or any part thereof; or restraint or detainment of any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, no matter how temporarily; tagging any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird, or operating a vessel or aircraft or conducting any other act that results in the disturbance or molestation of any marine mammal, sea turtle, or bird.


*Vessel* means a watercraft of any description capable of being used as a means of transportation in or on the waters of a sanctuary. The term includes but is not limited to, motorized and non-motorized watercraft, personal watercraft, airboats, and float planes while maneuvering on the water. For purposes of this part, the terms “vessel,” “watercraft,” and “boat” have the same meaning.


*Washington Coast treaty tribe* means the Hoh, Makah, or Quileute Indian Tribes or the Quinault Indian Nation.



---

[N] [88 FR 958, Jan. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 48287, June 6, 2024]




