# § 800.99   Checkweighing sacked grain.

(a) *General.* Each checkweighing service performed on a lot of sacked grain to determine the weight of the grain shall be made on the basis of one or more official weight samples obtained from the grain by official personnel according to this section and procedures prescribed in the instructions.


(b) *Representative sample.* No official weight sample shall be considered to be representative of a lot of sacked grain unless the sample is of the size prescribed in the instructions and has been obtained and weighed according to the procedures prescribed in the instructions.


(c) *Protecting samples and data.* Official personnel and other employees of an agency or the Service shall protect official weight samples and data from manipulation, substitution, and improper and careless handling which might deprive the samples and sample data of their representativeness.


(d) *Restriction on weighing.* No agency shall weigh any lot of sacked grain unless at the time of obtaining the official weight sample the grain from which the sample was obtained was located within the area of responsibility assigned to the agency, except as otherwise provided for in § 800.117, or on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Administrator.


(e) *Equipment and labor.* Each applicant for weighing services shall provide necessary labor for obtaining official weight samples and place the samples in a position for weighing and shall supply suitable weighing equipment approved by the Service, pursuant to the regulations and the instructions.


(f) *Disposition of official weight samples.* In weighing sacked grain in lots, the grain in the official weight samples shall be returned to the lots from which the samples were obtained.


(g) *Provisions by kinds of service*—(1) *“IN” movements.* Each checkweighing on an “IN” movement of sacked grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained while the grain is at rest in the carrier or during unloading, in accordance with procedures prescribed in the instructions.


(2) *“OUT” movements (export).* Each checkweighing of sacked export grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained as the grain is being loaded aboard the final carrier, as the grain is being sacked, or while the grain is at rest in a warehouse or holding facility, in accordance with procedures prescribed in the instructions.


(3) *“OUT” movements (other than export).* Each checkweighing of an “OUT” movement of nonexport sacked grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained from the grain as the grain is being loaded in the carrier, or while the grain is at rest in the carrier, or while the grain is at rest in a warehouse or holding facility, or while the grain is being sacked, in accordance with procedures prescribed in the instructions.


(4) *“LOCAL” weighing.* Each checkweighing of a “LOCAL” movement of sacked grain shall be based on an official weight sample obtained while the grain is at rest or while the grain is being transferred, in accordance with procedures prescribed in the instructions.



---

[N] [52 FR 6497, Mar. 4, 1987, as amended at 68 FR 19138, Apr. 18, 2003]




