# § 2635.501   Overview.

(a) *Scope.* This subpart is intended to ensure that employees take appropriate steps to avoid an appearance of loss of impartiality in the performance of their official duties in circumstances other than those covered by the criminal conflict of interest statute, 18 U.S.C. 208(a).


(1) The provisions of § 2635.502 are designed to help employees identify and take appropriate steps regarding their participation in particular matters involving specific parties that may cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question their impartiality. Employees and agencies should analyze such appearance issues, and employees may receive authorization to participate in such matters, using the procedures in this subpart.


(2) Under § 2635.503, an employee who has received a covered payment from a former employer is subject, in the absence of a waiver pursuant to § 2635.503(c), to a two-year period of recusal from participating in particular matters in which that former employer is or represents a party.


(3) An employee is prohibited by 18 U.S.C. 208(a) from participating personally and substantially in an official capacity in any particular matter in which, to the employee's knowledge, the employee has a personal or imputed financial interest, if the particular matter will have a direct and predictable effect on that interest. Section 208(a), its interpreting and implementing regulations under part 2640 of this chapter, and the regulations at subparts D and F of this part, apply when the particular matter would affect the financial interests of one of these persons.


(b) *Distinction between authorizations under this subpart and waivers and exemptions under the criminal conflict of interest law.* (1) When an employee's participation in a particular matter involving specific parties would raise a question in the mind of a reasonable person about the employee's impartiality, but would not violate 18 U.S.C. 208(a), the agency designee may make a determination, as explained in § 2635.502(d), and authorize the employee to participate in the matter.


(2) When the employee's participation in a particular matter would affect any one of the financial interests described in 18 U.S.C. 208(a), only a statutory waiver or exemption, as described in §§ 2635.402(d) and 2635.605(a), will enable the employee to participate in that matter. The specific requirements for regulatory exemptions and statutory waivers are contained in part 2640, subparts B and C, of this chapter.


(3) An applicable waiver or exemption under part 2640 of this chapter also authorizes an employee's participation in particular matters that would otherwise be restricted by § 2635.502. Specifically, if an employee meets all prerequisites for the application of one of the regulatory exemptions set forth in part 2640, subpart B, of this chapter, that constitutes a determination that the interest of the Government in the employee's participation in a particular matter outweighs the concern that a reasonable person may question the integrity of agency programs and operations. Similarly, if the employee complies with all terms of a statutory waiver granted pursuant to part 2640, subpart C, of this chapter, that also constitutes a determination that the interest of the Government in the employee's participation in a particular matter outweighs the concern that a reasonable person may question the integrity of agency programs and operations. In such cases, the employee is not required to recuse under § 2635.502(e) or request authorization to participate under § 2635.502(d).


