# § 72.40   General.

(a) For each affected unit included in an Acid Rain permit application, a complete compliance plan shall:


(1) For sulfur dioxide emissions, certify that, as of the allowance transfer deadline, the designated representative will hold allowances in the compliance account of the source where the unit is located (after deductions under § 73.34(c) of this chapter) not less than the total annual emissions of sulfur dioxide from the affected units at the source. The compliance plan may also specify, in accordance with this subpart, one or more of the Acid Rain compliance options.


(2) For nitrogen oxides emissions, certify that the unit will comply with the applicable emission limitation under § 76.5, § 76.6, or § 76.7 of this chapter or shall specify one or more Acid Rain compliance options, in accordance with part 76 of this chapter.


(b) *Multi-unit compliance options.* (1) A plan for a compliance option, under § 72.41, § 72.42, § 72.43, or § 72.44 of this part, under § 74.47 of this chapter, or a NO_X_ averaging plan under § 76.11 of this chapter, that includes units at more than one affected source shall be complete only if:


(i) Such plan is signed and certified by the designated representative for each source with an affected unit governed by such plan; and


(ii) A complete permit application is submitted covering each unit governed by such plan.


(2) A permitting authority's approval of a plan under paragraph (b)(1) of this section that includes units in more than one State shall be final only after every permitting authority with jurisdiction over any such unit has approved the plan with the same modifications or conditions, if any.


(c) *Conditional Approval.* In the compliance plan, the designated representative of an affected unit may propose, in accordance with this subpart, any Acid Rain compliance option for conditional approval, except a Phase I extension plan; *provided* that an Acid Rain compliance option under section 407 of the Act may be conditionally proposed only to the extent provided in part 76 of this chapter.


(1) To activate a conditionally-approved Acid Rain compliance option, the designated representative shall notify the permitting authority in writing that the conditionally-approved compliance option will actually be pursued beginning January 1 of a specified year. If the conditionally approved compliance option includes a plan described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the designated representative of each source governed by the plan shall sign and certify the notification. Such notification shall be subject to the limitations on activation under subpart D of this part and part 76 of this chapter.


(2) The notification under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall specify the first calendar year and the last calendar year for which the conditionally approved Acid Rain compliance option is to be activated. A conditionally approved compliance option shall be activated, if at all, before the date of any enforceable milestone applicable to the compliance option. The date of activation of the compliance option shall not be a defense against failure to meet the requirements applicable to that compliance option during each calendar year for which the compliance option is activated.


(3) Upon submission of a notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, the conditionally-approved Acid Rain compliance option becomes binding on the owners and operators and the designated representative of any unit governed by the conditionally-approved compliance option.


(4) A notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section will revise the unit's permit in accordance with § 72.83 (administrative permit amendment).


(d) *Termination of compliance option.* (1) The designated representative for a unit may terminate an Acid Rain compliance option by notifying the permitting authority in writing that an approved compliance option will be terminated beginning January 1 of a specified year. If the compliance option includes a plan described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the designated representative for each source governed by the plan shall sign and certify the notification. Such notification shall be subject to the limitations on termination under subpart D of this part and part 76 of this chapter.


(2) The notification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall specify the calendar year for which the termination will take effect.


(3) Upon submission of a notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section, the termination becomes binding on the owners and operators and the designated representative of any unit governed by the Acid Rain compliance option to be terminated.


(4) A notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section will revise the unit's permit in accordance with § 72.83 (administrative permit amendment).



---

[N] [58 FR 3650, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 17113, Apr. 4, 1995; 62 FR 55481, Oct. 24, 1997; 64 FR 25842, May 13, 1999; 70 FR 25334, May 12, 2005]




