# § 5.152   AFFH certification and administration.

(a) *Certifications.* Program participants must certify that they will comply with their obligation of affirmatively furthering fair housing when required by statutes or regulations governing HUD programs. Such certifications are made in accordance with applicable regulations. Consolidated plan program participants are subject to the certification requirements in 24 CFR part 91, and PHA Plan program participants are subject to the certification requirements in 24 CFR part 903.


(b) *Administration.* To assist program participants in carrying out their obligation of affirmatively furthering fair housing, and supporting their certifications pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, HUD will provide technical assistance to program participants in various ways, including by:


(1) Making HUD-provided data and informational resources available, including about how to voluntarily engage in fair housing planning, such as:


(i) Analyzing fair housing data, assessing fair housing issues and contributing factors, assessing fair housing priorities and goals; taking meaningful actions to support identified goals; and taking no action that is materially inconsistent with the obligation to affirmatively further fair housing; or


(ii) Conducting an analysis to identify impediments to fair housing choice within the jurisdiction, taking appropriate actions to overcome the effects of any impediments identified through that analysis, and maintaining records reflecting the analysis and actions in this regard; or


(iii) Engaging in other means of fair housing planning that meaningfully supports this certification;


(2) Permitting a program participant to voluntarily submit its fair housing planning for HUD feedback from the responsible office; and


(3) Engaging in other forms of technical assistance.


(c) *Procedure for challenging the validity of an AFFH certification.* The procedures for challenging the validity of an AFFH certification are as follows:


(1) For consolidated plan program participants, HUD's challenge to the validity of an AFFH certification will be as specified in 24 CFR part 91.


(2) For PHA Plan program participants, HUD's challenge to the validity of an AFFH certification will be as specified in 24 CFR part 903.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Data* refers collectively to the sources of data provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this definition. When identification of the specific source of data in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) is necessary, the specific source (HUD-provided data or local data) will be stated.


(i) *HUD-provided data.* The term “HUD-provided data” refers to HUD-provided metrics, statistics, and other quantified information that may be used when conducting fair housing planning. HUD-provided data will not only be provided to program participants but will be posted on HUD's website for availability to all of the public;


(ii) *Local data.* The term “local data” refers to metrics, statistics, and other quantified information, relevant to the program participant's geographic areas of analysis, that can be found through a reasonable amount of search, are readily available at little or no cost, and may be used to conduct fair housing planning.


(2) *Program participants* means:


(i) Jurisdictions and Insular Areas, as described in 570.405 and defined in 570.3, that are required to submit consolidated plans for the following programs:


(A) The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program (see 24 CFR part 570, subparts D and I);


(B) The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program (see 24 CFR part 576);


(C) The HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program (see 24 CFR part 92); and


(D) The Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see 24 CFR part 574).


(ii) Public housing agencies (PHAs) receiving assistance under sections 8 or 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f or 42 U.S.C. 1437g).


(3)* Protected characteristics* are race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, having a disability, and having a type of disability.


(4) *Protected class* means a group of persons who have the same protected characteristic; e.g., a group of persons who are of the same race are a protected class. Similarly, a person who has a mobility disability is a member of the protected class of persons with disabilities and a member of the protected class of persons with mobility disabilities.



---

[N] [86 FR 30791, June 10, 2021]




