# § 17.43   Allowable claims.

(a) A claim may be allowed only if: 


(1) The damage or loss was not caused wholly or partly by the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant, his agent, the members of his family, or his private employee (the standard to be applied is that of reasonable care under the circumstances); and 


(2) The possession of the property lost or damaged and the quantity possessed is determined to have been reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances; and 


(3) The claim is substantiated by proper and convincing evidence. 


(b) Claims which are otherwise allowable under this part shall not be disallowed solely because the property was not in the possession of the claimant at the time of the damage or loss, or solely because the claimant was not the legal owner of the property for which the claim is made. For example, borrowed property may be the subject of a claim. 


(c) Subject to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section, and the other provisions of this subpart, any claim for damage to, or loss of, personal property incident to service with HUD may be considered and allowed. The following are examples of the principal types of claims which may be allowed, but these examples are not exclusive and other types of claims may be allowed, unless excluded by §§ 17.44 and 17.45: 


(1) *Property loss or damage in quarters or other authorized places.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property arising from fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft, or other unusual occurrence, while such property is located at: 


(i) Quarters within the 50 States or the District of Columbia that were assigned to the claimant or otherwise provided in kind by the United States; 


(ii) Quarters outside the 50 States and the District of Columbia that were occupied by the claimant, whether or not they were assigned or otherwise provided in kind by the United States, except when the claimant is a civilian employee who is a local inhabitant; or 


(iii) Any warehouse, office, working area, or other place (except quarters) authorized or apparently authorized for the reception or storage of property. 


(2) *Transportation or travel losses.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property incident to transportation or storage pursuant to orders, or in connection with travel under orders, including property in the custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government, or the claimant. 


(3) *Manufactured homes.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, manufactured homes and their contents under the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Claims for structural damage to manufactured homes, other than that caused by collision, and damage to contents of manufactured homes resulting from such structural damage, must contain conclusive evidence that the damage was not caused by structural deficiency of the manufactured home and that it was not overloaded. Claims for damage to, or loss of, tires mounted on manufactured homes will not be allowed, except in cases of collision, theft, or vandalism. 


(4) *Enemy action or public service.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property as a direct consequence of: 


(i) Enemy action or threat thereof, or combat, guerrilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nationals; 


(ii) Action by the claimant to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster; or 


(iii) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or Government property. 


(5) *Property used for benefit of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property when used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of, superior authority. 


(6) *Clothing and accessories.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, clothing or accessories customarily worn on the person, such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, or dentures. 



---

[N] [36 FR 24427, Dec. 22, 1971, as amended at 50 FR 9268, Mar. 7, 1985] 




