# ยง 115.31   Guarantee percentage.

(a) *Ninety percent.* SBA reimburses a Prior Approval Surety for 90% of the Loss incurred and paid if: 


(1) The total amount of the Contract at the time of Execution of the bond is $100,000 or less; or 


(2) The bond was issued on behalf of a small business owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, on behalf of a certified HUBZone small business concern, or on behalf of a small business owned and controlled by veterans or a small business owned and controlled by Service-disabled veterans.


(b) *Eighty percent.* SBA reimburses a Prior Approval Surety in an amount not to exceed 80% of the Loss incurred and paid on bonds for Contracts in excess of $100,000 which are executed on behalf of non-disadvantaged concerns. 


(c) *Contract increase to over $100,000.* If the Contract amount increases to more than $100,000 after Execution of the bond, the guarantee percentage decreases by one percentage point for each $5,000 of increase or part thereof, but it does not decrease below 80%. This provision applies only to guarantees which qualify under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(d) *Contract or Order increases exceed Applicable Statutory Limit.* If the Contract or Order amount is increased above the Applicable Statutory Limit after Execution of the bond, SBA's share of the Loss is limited to that percentage of the increased Contract or Order amount that the Applicable Statutory Limit represents multiplied by the guarantee percentage approved by SBA. For example, if a contract amount increases to $6,800,000, SBA's share of the loss under an 80% guarantee is limited to 76.5% [6,500,000/6,800,000 = 95.6% x 80% = 76.5%].


(e) *Contract or Order decrease to $100,000 or less.* If the Contract or Order amount decreases to $100,000, or less, after Execution of the bond, SBA's guarantee percentage increases to 90% if the Surety provides SBA with evidence supporting the decrease and any other information or documents requested.



---

[N] [61 FR 3271, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 18324, Apr. 14, 1999; 66 FR 30804, June 8, 2001; 72 FR 34599, June 25, 2007; 74 FR 36110, July 22, 2009; 79 FR 2087, Jan. 13, 2014; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019]




