# § 301.6226(e)-1   Jurisdictional requirement for bringing an action in District Court or United States Court of Federal Claims.

(a) *Amount to be deposited*—(1) *In general.* The jurisdictional amount that the filing partner (or, in the case of a petition filed by a 5-percent group, each member of the group, or, for civil actions beginning on or after April 2, 2002, in the case of a petition filed by a pass-thru partner, each indirect partner holding an interest through the pass-thru partner) shall deposit is the amount by which the tax liability of the partner would be increased if the treatment of the partnership items on the partner's return were made consistent with the treatment of partnership items on the partnership return, as adjusted by the notice of final partnership administrative adjustment. The partner is not required to pay other outstanding liabilities in order to deposit a jurisdictional amount. 


(2) *Example.* The provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(b) *Deposit taken into account in computing interest.* The amount deposited is treated as a payment of tax for purposes of chapter 67 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to interest). 


(c) *Deposit generally not treated as payment of tax.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an amount deposited under section 6226(e) shall not be treated as a payment of tax. Thus, the Internal Revenue Service may proceed against the depositor for a deficiency based on nonpartnership items without regard to this deposit. 


(d) *Amount deposited may be applied against assessment.* If the restriction on assessment provided under section 6225(a) lapses with respect to a deficiency attributable to partnership items for a partnership taxable year while an amount is on deposit under section 6226(e) in connection with a petition relating to those items, the Internal Revenue Service may apply the amount deposited against any such deficiency that is assessed. 


(e) *Effective date.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, this section is applicable to civil actions beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For civil actions beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6226(e)-1T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50554, Oct. 4, 2001]




