# § 158.2220   Product performance.

(a) *General*—(1) *Product performance requirement for all antimicrobial pesticides.* Each applicant must ensure through testing that his product is efficacious when used in accordance with label directions and commonly accepted pest control practices. The Agency may require, on a case-by-case basis, submission of product performance data for any pesticide product registered or proposed for registration or amendment.


(2) *Product performance data for each product that bears a public health claim.* Each product that bears a public health claim, as described in § 158.2204(a), must be supported by product performance data, as listed in the table in paragraph (c) of this section. Product performance data must be submitted with any application for registration or amended registration.


(3) *Product performance data for each product that bears a nonpublic health claim.* Each product that bears a nonpublic health claim, as described in § 158.2204(b), must be supported by product performance data. Each registrant must ensure through testing that his product is efficacious when used in accordance with label directions and commonly accepted practices. The Agency reserves the right to require, on a case-by-case basis, submission of product performance data for any pesticide product registered or proposed for registration or amendment.


(4) *Determination of data requirements.* Subpart B of this part and § 158.2201 describe how to use the table in paragraph (c) of this section to determine the product performance data requirements for antimicrobial pesticide products.


(b) *Key.* R = Required; EP = End-use product.


(c) *Antimicrobial product performance data requirements table.* The following table shows the data requirements for antimicrobial product performance.


