# ยง 319.7-4   Withdrawal, cancellation, and revocation of permits.

(a) *Withdrawal of an application.* If the applicant wishes to withdraw a permit application before issuance of a permit, he or she must provide the request in writing to APHIS. APHIS will provide written notification to the applicant as promptly as circumstances allow regarding reception of the request and withdrawal of the application.


(b) *Cancellation of permit by permittee.* If a permittee wishes to cancel a permit after its issuance, he or she must provide the request in writing to APHIS. APHIS will provide written notification to the applicant as promptly as circumstances allow regarding reception of the request and cancellation of the permit.


(c) *Revocation of permit by APHIS.* APHIS may revoke any outstanding permit to import regulated articles into the United States. A revocation, including the reason for the revocation, will be provided in writing, including by electronic methods, to the permittee as promptly as circumstances permit. The revocation of a permit may be appealed in accordance with ยง 319.7-5.


(d) APHIS may revoke a permit to import a regulated article if:


(1) Information is received subsequent to the issuance of the permit of circumstances that APHIS determines would constitute cause for the denial of an application under ยง 319.7-3; or


(2) APHIS determines that the permittee has failed to maintain the safeguards or otherwise observe the conditions specified in the permit or in any applicable regulations or administrative instructions, including, but not limited to, all of the requirements of this part.


(e) Upon revocation of a permit, the permittee must, without cost to the Federal Government and in the manner and method APHIS considers appropriate, either:


(1) Surrender all regulated articles covered by the revoked permit and any other affected plant material to an inspector;


(2) Destroy, under the supervision of an inspector, all regulated articles covered by the revoked permit and any other affected plant material; or


(3) Remove all regulated articles covered by the revoked permit and any other affected plant material from the United States.



---

[N] [78 FR 19807, Apr. 10, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 5888, Feb. 4, 2016]




