# § 22.17   Default.

(a) *Default.* A party may be found to be in default: after motion, upon failure to file a timely answer to the complaint; upon failure to comply with the information exchange requirements of § 22.19(a) or an order of the Presiding Officer; or upon failure to appear at a conference or hearing. Default by respondent constitutes, for purposes of the pending proceeding only, an admission of all facts alleged in the complaint and a waiver of respondent's right to contest such factual allegations. Default by complainant constitutes a waiver of complainant's right to proceed on the merits of the action, and shall result in the dismissal of the complaint with prejudice.


(b) *Motion for default.* A motion for default may seek resolution of all or part of the proceeding. Where the motion requests the assessment of a penalty or the imposition of other relief against a defaulting party, the movant must specify the penalty or other relief sought and state the legal and factual grounds for the relief requested.


(c) *Default order.* When the Presiding Officer finds that default has occurred, he shall issue a default order against the defaulting party as to any or all parts of the proceeding unless the record shows good cause why a default order should not be issued. If the order resolves all outstanding issues and claims in the proceeding, it shall constitute the initial decision under these Consolidated Rules of Practice. The relief proposed in the complaint or the motion for default shall be ordered unless the requested relief is clearly inconsistent with the record of the proceeding or the Act. For good cause shown, the Presiding Officer may set aside a default order.


(d) *Payment of penalty; effective date of compliance or corrective action orders, and Permit Actions.* Any penalty assessed in the default order shall become due and payable by respondent without further proceedings 30 days after the default order becomes final under § 22.27(c). Any default order requiring compliance or corrective action shall be effective and enforceable without further proceedings on the date the default order becomes final under § 22.27(c). Any Permit Action ordered in the default order shall become effective without further proceedings on the date that the default order becomes final under § 22.27(c).




