# ยง 432.55   Reporting training and administrative costs.

(a) *Scope.* This section identifies activities and costs to be reported as training or administrative costs on quarterly estimate and expenditure reports to CMS. 


(b) *Activities and costs to be reported on training expenditures.* (1) For fulltime training (with no assigned agency duties): Salaries, fringe benefits, dependency allowances, travel, tuition, books, and educational supplies. 


(2) For part-time training: Travel, per diem, tuition, books and educational supplies. 


(3) For State and local Medicaid agency staff development personnel (including supporting staff) assigned fulltime training functions: Salaries, fringe benefits, travel, and per diem. Costs for staff spending less than full time on training for the Medicaid program must be allocated between training and administration in accordance with ยง 433.34 of this subchapter. 


(4) For experts engaged to develop or conduct special programs: Salary, fringe benefits, travel, and per diem. 


(5) For agency training activities directly related to the program: Use of space, postage, teaching supplies, and purchase or development of teaching materials and equipment, for example, books and audiovisual aids. 


(6) For field instruction in Medicaid: Instructors' salaries and fringe benefits, rental of space, travel, clerical assistance, teaching materials and equipment such as books and audiovisual aids. 


(c) *Activities and costs not to be reported as training expenditures.* The following activities are to be reported as administrative costs: 


(1) Salaries of supervisors (day-to-day supervision of staff is not a training activity); and 


(2) Cost of employing students on a temporary basis, for instance, during summer vacation. 



---

[N] [43 FR 45199, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 17935, Mar. 23, 1979] 




