# § 200.204   What actions may HUD take against unsatisfactory appraisers on the Appraiser Roster?

An unsatisfactory appraiser may be subject to removal, education requirements, or other actions, as follows: 


(a) *Removal from the Appraiser Roster.* HUD officials, as designated by the Secretary, may at any time remove a listed appraiser from the Appraiser Roster for cause, in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section do not apply to removal actions taken under any section in 2 CFR part 2424 or to any other remedy against an appraiser, available to HUD by statute or otherwise. 


(1) *Cause for removal.* Cause for removal includes, but is not limited to: 


(i) Significant deficiencies in appraisals, including non-compliance with Civil Rights requirements regarding appraisals; 


(ii) Losing standing as a state-certified appraiser due to disciplinary action in any state in which the appraiser is certified;


(iii) Prosecution for committing, attempting to commit, or conspiring to commit fraud, misrepresentation, or any other offense that may reflect on the appraiser's character or integrity;


(iv) Failure to perform appraisal functions in accordance with instructions and standards issued by HUD; 


(v) Failure to comply with any agreement made between the appraiser and HUD or with any certification made by the appraiser; 


(vi) Being issued a final debarment, suspension, or limited denial of participation; 


(vii) Failure to maintain eligibility requirements for placement on the Appraiser Roster as set forth under this subpart or any other instructions or standards issued by HUD; or, 


(viii) Failure to comply with HUD-imposed education requirements under paragraph (d) of this section within the specified period for complying with such education requirements. 


(2) *Procedure for removal.* If you are a listed appraiser and HUD decides to remove you for cause from the Appraiser Roster, the following procedure applies to you unless you have been issued a final debarment, suspension, or limited denial of participation, in which case you are subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section: 


(i) You will be given written notice of your proposed removal. The notice will include the reasons for your proposed removal and the duration of your proposed removal. 


(ii) You will have 20 days from the date of your notice of proposed removal to submit a written response appealing the proposed removal and to request a conference. A request for a conference must be in writing and must be submitted along with a written response. 


(iii) Within 30 days of receiving your written response, or if you have requested a conference, within 30 days after the completion of your conference, a HUD official, designated by the Secretary, will review your appeal and will send you a final decision either affirming, modifying, or canceling your removal from the Appraiser Roster. HUD may extend this time upon giving you notice. The HUD official designated by the Secretary to review your appeal will not be someone involved in HUD's initial removal decision nor will it be someone who reports to a person involved in that initial decision. 


(iv) If you do not submit a written response, your removal will be effective 20 days after the date of HUD's initial removal notice. If you submit a written response, and the removal decision is affirmed or modified, your removal or modification will be effective on the date of HUD's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision. 


(3) *Automatic removal for issuance of final debarment, suspension, or limited denial of participation.* If you are a listed appraiser and you have been issued a final debarment, a suspension, or a limited denial of participation, the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not apply to you, and you will be automatically removed from the Appraiser Roster. 


(b) *Reinstatement.* If an appraiser who has been removed from the Roster wants to be reinstated on the Roster, the appraiser must follow the procedures and requirements contained in this subpart for placement on the Roster. Before an appraiser is eligible to reapply for placement on the Roster, the appraiser shall comply with the terms of any applicable remedial training education requirements, and the time period for the appraiser's removal from the Roster shall have expired. 


(c) *Automatic suspension from Appraiser Roster*—(1) *Appraisers subject to state disciplinary action.* An appraiser whose state certification in any state has been revoked, suspended, or surrendered as a result of a state disciplinary action is automatically suspended from the Appraiser Roster and prohibited from conducting FHA appraisals in any state until HUD receives evidence demonstrating that the state-imposed sanction has been lifted.


(2) *Expirations not due to state disciplinary action.* An appraiser whose certification in a state has expired is automatically suspended from the Appraiser Roster in that state and may not conduct FHA appraisals in that state until HUD receives evidence that demonstrates renewal, but may continue to perform FHA appraisals in other states in which the appraiser is certified.


(d) *Education requirements.* Where there is evidence that an appraiser is deficient in FHA appraisal requirements, HUD may require an appraiser to undergo professional training.


(e) *Other action.* Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking any other action against an appraiser, as provided under 2 CFR part 2424, or from seeking any other remedy against an appraiser, available to HUD by statute or otherwise.



---

[N] [65 FR 17977, Apr. 5, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 26950, May 16, 2003; 72 FR 73494, Dec. 27, 2007; 73 FR 1432, Jan. 8, 2008; 76 FR 72308, Nov. 23, 2011]




