# § 30.14   Complaints.

(a) *Requirements for individuals filing complaints*—(1) *Who may file.* Any individual who believes that he or she has been or is being discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age (40 or older), genetic information, or disability with regard to apprenticeship, or who believes he or she has been retaliated against as described in § 30.17, may, personally or through an authorized representative, file a written complaint with the Registration Agency with whom the apprenticeship program is registered.


(2) *Time period for filing a complaint.* Generally, a complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged discrimination or specified failure to follow the equal opportunity standards. However, for good cause shown, the Registration Agency may extend the filing time. The time period for filing is for the administrative convenience of the Registration Agency and does not create a defense for the respondent.


(3) *Contents of the complaint.* Each complaint must be made in writing and must contain the following information:


(i) The complainant's name, address and telephone number, or other means for contacting the complainant;


(ii) The identity of the respondent (the individual or entity that the complainant alleges is responsible for the discrimination);


(iii) A short description of the events that the complainant believes were discriminatory, including but not limited to when the events took place, what occurred, and why complainant believes the actions were discriminatory (for example, because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age (40 or older), genetic information, or disability).


(iv) The complainant's signature or the signature of the complainant's authorized representative.


(b) *Requirements of sponsors.* Sponsors must provide written notice to all applicants for apprenticeship and all apprentices of their right to file a discrimination complaint and the procedures for doing so. The notice must include the address, phone number, and other contact information for the Registration Agency that will receive and investigate complaints filed under this part. The notice must be provided in the application for apprenticeship and must also be displayed in a prominent, publicly available location where all apprentices will see the notice. The notice must contain the following specific wording:


(c) *Requirements of the Registration Agency*—(1) *Conduct investigations.* The investigation of a complaint filed under this part will be undertaken by the Registration Agency, and will proceed as expeditiously as possible. In conducting complaint investigations, the Registration Agency must:


(i) Provide written notice to the complainant acknowledging receipt of the complaint;


(ii) Contact the complainant, if the complaint form is incomplete, to obtain full information necessary to initiate an investigation;


(iii) Initiate an investigation upon receiving a complete complaint;


(iv) Complete a thorough investigation of the allegations of the complaint and develop a complete case record that must contain, but is not limited to, the name, address, and telephone number of each person interviewed, the interview statements, copies, transcripts, or summaries (where appropriate) of pertinent documents, and a narrative report of the investigation with references to exhibits and other evidence which relate to the alleged violations; and


(v) Provide written notification of the Registration Agency's findings to both the respondent and the complainant.


(2) *Seek compliance.* Where a report of findings from a complaint investigation indicates a violation of the nondiscrimination requirements of this part, the Registration Agency should attempt to resolve the matter quickly at the Registration Agency level whenever appropriate. Where a complaint of discrimination cannot be resolved at the Registration Agency level to the satisfaction of the complainant, the Registration Agency must refer the complaint to other Federal, State or local EEO agencies, as appropriate.


(3) *Referrals to other EEO agencies.* The Registration Agency, at its discretion, may choose to refer a complaint immediately upon its receipt or any time thereafter to:


(i) The EEOC;


(ii) The United States Attorney General;


(iii) The Department's OFCCP; or


(iv) For an SAA, to its Fair Employment Practices Agency.


(4) *Alternative complaint procedures.* An SAA may adopt a complaint review procedure differing in detail from that given in this section provided it is submitted for review to and receives approval by the Administrator.




