# § 628.33   Off-balance sheet exposures.

(a) *General.* (1) A System institution must calculate the exposure amount of an off-balance sheet exposure using the credit conversion factors (CCFs) in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Where a System institution commits to provide a commitment, the System institution may apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.


(3) Where a System institution provides a commitment structured as a syndication or participation, the System institution is only required to calculate the exposure amount for its pro rata share of the commitment.


(4) Where a System institution provides a commitment, enters into a repurchase agreement, or provides a credit enhancing representation and warranty, and such commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty is not a securitization exposure, the exposure amount shall be no greater than the maximum contractual amount of the commitment, repurchase agreement, or credit-enhancing representation and warranty, as applicable.


(5) The exposure amount of a System bank's commitment to an association or OFI is the difference between the association's or OFI's maximum credit limit with the System bank (as established by the general financing agreement or promissory note, as required by § 614.4125(d) of this chapter), and the amount the association or OFI has borrowed from the System bank.


(b) *Credit conversion factors*—(1) *Zero-percent (0%) CCF.* A System institution must apply a 0-percent CCF to a commitment that is unconditionally cancelable by the System institution.


(2) *Twenty-percent (20%) CCF.* A System institution must apply a 20-percent CCF to the amount of:


(i) Commitments, other than a System bank's commitment to an association or OFI, with an original maturity of 14 months or less that are not unconditionally cancelable by the System institution.


(ii) Self-liquidating, trade-related contingent items that arise from the movement of goods, with an original maturity of 14 months or less.


(iii) A System bank's commitment to an association or OFI that is not unconditionally cancelable by the System bank, regardless of maturity.


(3) *Fifty-percent (50%) CCF.* A System institution must apply a 50-percent CCF to the amount of:


(i) Commitments, other than a System bank's commitment to an association or OFI, with an original maturity of more than 14 months that are not unconditionally cancelable by the System institution.


(ii) Transaction-related contingent items, including performance bonds, bid bonds, warranties, and performance standby letters of credit.


(4) *One hundred-percent (100%) CCF.* A System institution must apply a 100-percent CCF to the following off-balance sheet items and other similar transactions:


(i) Guarantees;


(ii) Repurchase agreements (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the System institution has sold subject to repurchase);


(iii) Credit-enhancing representations and warranties that are not securitization exposures;


(iv) Off-balance sheet securities lending transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all positions the System institution has lent under the transaction);


(v) Off-balance sheet securities borrowing transactions (the off-balance sheet component of which equals the sum of the current fair values of all non-cash positions the System institution has posted as collateral under the transaction);


(vi) Financial standby letters of credit; and


(vii) Forward agreements.




