# ยง 229.1   Access to records and proceedings.

(a) *Official written record.* Submissions by parties to a proceeding and documents issued by the Copyright Claims Board (Board) shall constitute the official written record.


(b) *Access to record.* Any member of the public may inspect the official written record through eCCB, except any materials that have been marked confidential pursuant to ยง 222.19 of this subchapter.


(c) *Attendance at hearing.* Attendance at a Board hearing, including virtual hearings, is limited to the parties to the proceeding, including any legal counsel or *authorized representatives,* and any witnesses, except with leave of the Board. The Board may order that a witness be excluded from a hearing except when a question is directed to the witness. A request for attendance may be made in writing. Requests for a third-party non-witness to attend a hearing and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in ยง 220.5(a)(2) of this subchapter.


(d) *Hearing transcript.* The Board may cause a transcript of a hearing to be made by using an official reporter or any technology that is available to the Board. At the request of any party, the Board may designate an official reporter to attend and transcribe a hearing or to prepare a transcript from a recording of a hearing. Requests to designate an official reporter and any responses thereto shall follow the procedures set forth in ยง 220.5(a)(1) of this subchapter. The requesting party or parties shall pay the reporter directly for the cost of creating an official transcript.










