# ยง 156.800   Available remedies; Scope.

(a) *Kinds of sanctions.* HHS may impose the following types of sanctions on QHP issuers in an Exchange that are not in compliance with Exchange standards applicable to issuers offering QHPs in an Exchange:


(1) Civil money penalties as specified in ยง 156.805; and


(2) Decertification of a QHP offered by the non-compliant QHP issuer in a Federally-facilitated Exchange as described in ยง 156.810.


(b) *Scope.* Sanctions under subpart I are applicable for non-compliance with QHP issuer participation standards and other standards applicable to issuers offering QHPs in a Federally-facilitated Exchange. Sanctions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are also applicable for non-compliance by QHP issuers participating in State Exchanges and State-based Exchanges on the Federal platform when HHS is responsible for enforcement of the requirements in subpart E of this part and 45 CFR 156.50.


(c) *Compliance standard.* For calendar years 2014 and 2015, sanctions under this subpart will not be imposed if the QHP issuer has made good faith efforts to comply with applicable requirements.


(d) *Information sharing.* HHS may consult and share information about QHP issuers with other Federal and State regulatory and enforcement entities to the extent that the consultation and information is necessary for purposes of State or Federal oversight and enforcement activities.



---

[N] [78 FR 54143, Aug. 30, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 30351, May 27, 2014; 80 FR 10875, Feb. 27, 2015; 86 FR 24293, May 5, 2021]




