# ยง 61.131   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act, in subpart A of part 61, and in subpart V of part 61. The following terms shall have the specific meanings given them: 


*Annual coke production* means the coke produced in the batteries connected to the coke by-product recovery plant over a 12-month period. The first 12-month period concludes on the first December 31 that comes at least 12 months after the effective date or after the date of initial startup if initial startup is after the effective date. 


*Benzene storage tank* means any tank, reservoir, or container used to collect or store refined benzene. 


*BTX storage tank* means any tank, reservoir, or container used to collect or store benzene-toluene-xylene or other light-oil fractions. 


*Car seal* means a seal that is placed on the device used to change the position of a valve (e.g., from open to closed) such that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal and requiring the replacement of the old seal, once broken, with a new seal.


*Coke by-product recovery plant* means any plant designed and operated for the separation and recovery of coal tar derivatives (by-products) evolved from coal during the coking process of a coke oven battery. 


*Equipment* means each pump, valve, exhauster, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, and flange or other connector in benzene service. 


*Excess ammonia-liquor storage tank* means any tank, reservoir, or container used to collect or store a flushing liquor solution prior to ammonia or phenol recovery. 


*Exhauster* means a fan located between the inlet gas flange and outlet gas flange of the coke oven gas line that provides motive power for coke oven gases. 


*Foundry coke* means coke that is produced from raw materials with less than 26 percent volatile material by weight and that is subject to a coking period of 24 hours or more. Percent volatile material of the raw materials (by weight) is the weighted average percent volatile material of all raw materials (by weight) charged to the coke oven per coking cycle. 


*Foundry coke by-product recovery plant* means a coke by-product recovery plant connected to coke batteries whose annual coke production is at least 75 percent foundry coke. 


*Flushing-liquor circulation tank* means any vessel that functions to store or contain flushing liquor that is separated from the tar in the tar decanter and is recirculated as the cooled liquor to the gas collection system. 


*Furnace coke* means coke produced in by-product ovens that is not foundry coke. 


*Furnace coke by-product recovery plant* means a coke by-product recovery plant that is not a foundry coke by-product recovery plant. 


*In benzene service* means a piece of equipment, other than an exhauster, that either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 10 percent benzene by weight or any exhauster that either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) at least 1 percent benzene by weight as determined by the provisions of ยง 61.137(b). The provisions of ยง 61.137(b) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in benzene service. 


*Light-oil condenser* means any unit in the light-oil recovery operation that functions to condense benzene-containing vapors. 


*Light-oil decanter* means any vessel, tank, or other type of device in the light-oil recovery operation that functions to separate light oil from water downstream of the light-oil condenser. A light-oil decanter also may be known as a light-oil separator. 


*Light-oil storage tank* means any tank, reservoir, or container used to collect or store crude or refined light-oil. 


*Light-oil sump* means any tank, pit, enclosure, or slop tank in light-oil recovery operations that functions as a wastewater separation device for hydrocarbon liquids on the surface of the water. 


*Naphthalene processing* means any operations required to recover naphthalene including the separation, refining, and drying of crude or refined naphthalene. 


*Non-regenerative carbon adsorber* means a series, over time, of non-regenerative carbon beds applied to a single source or group of sources, where non-regenerative carbon beds are carbon beds that are either never regenerated or are moved from their location for regeneration.


*Process vessel* means each tar decanter, flushing-liquor circulation tank, light-oil condenser, light-oil decanter, wash-oil decanter, or wash-oil circulation tank. 


*Regenerative carbon adsorber* means a carbon adsorber applied to a single source or group of sources, in which the carbon beds are regenerated without being moved from their location.


*Semiannual* means a 6-month period; the first semiannual period concludes on the last day of the last full month during the 180 days following initial startup for new sources; the first semiannual period concludes on the last day of the last full month during the 180 days after the effective date of the regulation for existing sources. 


*Tar decanter* means any vessel, tank, or container that functions to separate heavy tar and sludge from flushing liquor by means of gravity, heat, or chemical emulsion breakers. A tar decanter also may be known as a flushing-liquor decanter.


*Tar storage tank* means any vessel, tank, reservoir, or other type of container used to collect or store crude tar or tar-entrained naphthalene, except for tar products obtained by distillation, such as coal tar pitch, creosotes, or carbolic oil. This definition also includes any vessel, tank, reservoir, or container used to reduce the water content of the tar by means of heat, residence time, chemical emulsion breakers, or centrifugal separation. A tar storage tank also may be known as a tar-dewatering tank. 


*Tar-intercepting sump* means any tank, pit, or enclosure that serves to receive or separate tars and aqueous condensate discharged from the primary cooler. A tar-intercepting sump also may be known as a primary-cooler decanter. 


*Vapor incinerator* means any enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds and does not necessarily extract energy in the form of steam or process heat.


*Wash-oil circulation tank* means any vessel that functions to hold the wash oil used in light-oil recovery operations or the wash oil used in the wash-oil final cooler. 


*Wash-oil decanter* means any vessel that functions to separate, by gravity, the condensed water from the wash oil received from a wash-oil final cooler or from a light-oil scrubber.



---

[N] [54 FR 38073, Sept. 14, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 47406, Sept. 19, 1991]




