# § 609.5   Evaluation of applications.

(a) Applications will be considered in a merit-based review process, considering such factors determined and published by DOE in guidance on its Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website pursuant to § 609.19. At any time, DOE may request additional information or supporting documentation from an Applicant.


(b) Applications will be denied if:


(1) The proposed project is not an Eligible Project;


(2) With respect to applications for Innovative Energy Projects and Innovative Supply Chain Projects, the applicable technology is not ready to be deployed commercially in the United States, cannot yield a commercially viable product or service in the use proposed in the Application, does not have the potential to be deployed in other commercial projects in the United States, or is not or will not be available for further commercial use in the United States;


(3) The Person proposed to issue the loan or purchase other debt obligations constituting the Guaranteed Obligations is not an Eligible Lender;


(4) The proposed project is for demonstration, research, or development;


(5) Significant Equity for the proposed project will not be provided by the date of issuance of the Guaranteed Obligations, or such later time as DOE in its discretion may determine;


(6) The proposed project does not present a Reasonable Prospect of Repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations;


(7) With respect to applications for Energy Infrastructure Reinvestment Projects such application fails to include an analysis of how the proposed project will engage with and affect associated communities or, where the Applicant is an electric utility, an assurance that Applicant will pass on the financial benefit from the Guarantee to the customers of, or associated communities served by, the electric utility; or


(8) The Applicant or Project Sponsor does not satisfy DOE's “know your customer” requirements.


(c) If an Application has not been denied pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, DOE will evaluate the proposed project based on the criteria published by DOE in guidance on its Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program website pursuant to § 609.19.


(d) After DOE completes its review and evaluation of a proposed project, DOE will notify the Applicant in writing of its determination whether to proceed with due diligence and negotiation of a Term Sheet. DOE will proceed only if it determines that the proposed project is highly qualified and suitable for a Guarantee. Upon written confirmation from the Applicant that it desires to proceed, DOE and the Applicant will commence negotiations.


(e) DOE shall provide all Applicants with a reasonable opportunity to correct or amend any Application in order to meet the criteria set forth in this part or any other conditions required by DOE, prior to any denial of such Application. A determination by DOE not to proceed with a proposed project shall be final and non-appealable, but shall not prejudice the Applicant or other affected Persons from applying for a Guarantee in respect of a different proposed project pursuant to another, separate Application. Prior to DOE's denial of any Application, DOE shall advise the Applicant in writing, not less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of such denial. If an Application could be amended or corrected such that DOE would determine that the project is highly qualified and suitable for a Guarantee, DOE may set forth the reasons for such proposed denial along with a list of items that may be corrected or amended by the Applicant. If requested by any Applicant, DOE shall meet with such Applicant in order to address questions or concerns raised by the Applicant.






