# ยง 102-3.175   What are the reporting and recordkeeping requirements for an advisory committee?

(a) *Presidential advisory committee follow-up report.* Within one year after a Presidential advisory committee has submitted a public report to the President, a follow-up report required by sec. 6(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1005(b)) must be prepared and transmitted to the Congress detailing the disposition of the advisory committee's recommendations. These reports are prepared and transmitted to the Congress as directed by the President, either by the President's delegate, by the agency responsible for providing support to a Presidential advisory committee, or by the responsible agency or organization designated in the charter of the Presidential advisory committee pursuant to ยง 102-3.75(f).


(b) *Annual comprehensive review of Federal advisory committees.* Per sec. 7(b) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1006(b)), GSA is required to conduct an Annual Comprehensive Review (ACR) of the activities and responsibilities of each Federal advisory committee that was in existence during any part of a Federal fiscal year. The Secretariat initiates this review, provides guidance to the agencies and departments on how to conduct the review, and closes out the ACR when all reviews have been completed. Federal agencies are responsible for reporting data on each advisory committee, such as its purpose, performance measures, subcommittees (if applicable), meeting, membership, and cost, into the GSA FACA database. CMOs, DFOs, and other responsible agency officials, such as GFOs, enter this data for the advisory committees they are responsible for in their agency. The FACA database provides transparency to the public on the activities of Federal advisory committees Government-wide. The database is also used by Congress to perform oversight of the FACA program, and by the general public, the media, and others to stay abreast of important developments resulting from Federal advisory committee activities.


(c) *Annual report of closed or partially closed meetings.* In accordance with sec. 10(d) of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1009(d)), advisory committees holding closed or partially closed meetings must issue reports at least annually, setting forth a summary of activities and such related matters as would be informative to the public consistent with the policy of 5 U.S.C. 552(b).


(d) *Advisory committee reports.* Subject to 5 U.S.C. 552, copies of each report made by an advisory committee, including any report of closed or partially closed meetings as specified in paragraph (c) of this section and, where appropriate, background papers prepared by experts or consultants, must be filed with the Library of Congress as required by sec. 13 of the Act (codified at 5 U.S.C. 1012) for public inspection and use.


(e) *Advisory committee records.* Official records generated by or for an advisory committee must be retained for the duration of the advisory committee. Upon termination of the advisory committee, the records must be processed in accordance with the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapters 21 and 29 through 33, and regulations issued by the National Archives and Records Administration (see 36 CFR parts 1220, 1222, 1228, and 1234), or in accordance with the Presidential Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapter 22.




