# § 107.620   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each person subject to the requirements of this subpart, or its agent designated under § 107.608(e), must maintain at its principal place of business for a period of three years from the date of issuance of each Certificate of Registration:


(1) A copy of the registration statement filed with PHMSA; and


(2) The Certificate of Registration issued to the registrant by PHMSA.


(b) After January 1, 1993, each motor carrier subject to the requirements of this subpart must carry a copy of its current Certificate of Registration issued by PHMSA or another document bearing the registration number identified as the “U.S. DOT Hazmat Reg. No.” on board each truck and truck tractor (not including trailers and semi-trailers) used to transport hazardous materials subject to the requirements of this subpart. The Certificate of Registration or document bearing the registration number must be made available, upon request, to enforcement personnel.


(c) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, after January 1, 1995, each person who transports by vessel a hazardous material subject to the requirements of this subpart must carry on board the vessel a copy of its current Certificate of Registration or another document bearing the current registration number identified as the “U.S. DOT Hazmat Reg. No.”


(d) Each person subject to this subpart must furnish its Certificate of Registration (or a copy thereof) and all other records and information pertaining to the information contained in the registration statement to an authorized representative or special agent of DOT upon request.



---

[N] [Amdt. 107-26, 57 FR 30630, July 9, 1992, as amended at 57 FR 37902, Aug. 21, 1992; Amdt. 107-26, 58 FR 12545, Mar. 5, 1993; Amdt. 107-31, 59 FR 32932, June 27, 1994]




