# § 63.9794   What do I need to know about operation, maintenance, and monitoring plans?

(a) For each continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) required by this subpart, you must develop, implement, make available for inspection, and revise, as necessary, an OM&M plan that includes the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section. 


(1) A list and identification of each process and add-on APCD that is required by this subpart to be monitored, the type of monitoring device that will be used, and the operating parameters that will be monitored. 


(2) Specifications for the sensor, signal analyzer, and data collection system. 


(3) A monitoring schedule that specifies the frequency that the parameter values will be determined and recorded. 


(4) The operating limits for each parameter that represent continuous compliance with the emission limitations in § 63.9788, based on values of the monitored parameters recorded during performance tests. 


(5) Procedures for installing the CPMS at a measurement location relative to each process unit or APCD such that measurement is representative of control of emissions. 


(6) Procedures for the proper operation and routine and long-term maintenance of each process unit and APCD, including a maintenance and inspection schedule that is consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. 


(7) Before May 19, 2022, procedures for the proper operation and maintenance of monitoring equipment consistent with the requirements in §§ 63.8(c)(1), (3), (4)(ii), (7), and (8), and 63.9804. On or after May 19, 2022, procedures for the proper operation and maintenance of monitoring equipment consistent with the requirements in §§ 63.8(c)(3), (4)(ii), (7), and (8), and 63.9804.




(8) Before May 19, 2022, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). On or after May 19, 2022, ongoing data quality assurance procedures consistent with the requirements in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). You must keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan in § 63.8(d)(2) is revised, you must keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).




(9) Procedures for evaluating the performance of each CPMS. 


(10) Procedures for responding to operating parameter deviations, including the procedures in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section: 


(i) Procedures for determining the cause of the operating parameter deviation. 


(ii) Actions for correcting the deviation and returning the operating parameters to the allowable limits. 


(iii) Procedures for recording the times that the deviation began and ended, and when corrective actions were initiated and completed. 


(11) Procedures for keeping records to document compliance and reporting in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). 


(12) Before Novermber 19, 2021, if you operate a kiln that is subject to the limits on the type of fuel used, as specified in items 3 and 4 of Table 3 to subpart SSSSS, procedures for using alternative fuels. On and after Novermber 19, 2021, you may not use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln.




(13) If you operate an affected continuous kiln used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP and you plan to take the kiln THC control device out of service for scheduled maintenance, as specified in § 63.9792(e), the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Procedures for minimizing HAP emissions from the kiln during periods of scheduled maintenance of the kiln control device when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service. On or after May 19, 2022, document the average organic HAP processing rate for that kiln (*i.e.,* the average organic HAP processing rate based on (a) the actual production on a 6-month rolling basis (not to include periods of kiln shut down) or (b) the HAP processing rate (lb/hr) that coincides with the lowest hour of the most recent 3-hour performance test, whichever is lower), the mass fraction of organic HAP in the resins, binders, and additives for each product manufactured in the kiln and procedures for ensuring that the actual organic HAP processing rate on an hourly basis does not exceed the average organic HAP processing rate.


(ii) Procedures for minimizing any period of scheduled maintenance on the kiln control device when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service. On or after May 19, 2022, procedures for ensuring that the total time during which the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service does not exceed 750 hours for each year on a 12-month rolling basis.




(b) Changes to the operating limits in your OM&M plan require a new performance test. If you are revising an operating limit parameter value, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Submit a Notification of Performance Test to the Administrator as specified in § 63.7(b). 


(2) After completing the performance tests to demonstrate that compliance with the emission limits can be achieved at the revised operating limit parameter value, you must submit the summary of the performance test results and the revised operating limits as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required under § 63.9(h) and the complete test report according to § 63.9814(h).


(c) If you are revising the inspection and maintenance procedures in your OM&M plan, you do not need to conduct a new performance test. 



---

[N] [68 FR 18747, Apr. 16, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 66064, Nov. 19, 2021]






