# § 1003.100   General.

(a) *Types of grants.* Two types of grants are available under the Indian CDBG Program. 


(1) *Single purpose grants* provide funds for one or more single purpose projects consisting of an activity or set of activities designed to meet a specific community development need. This type of grant is awarded through competition with other single purpose projects. 


(2) *Imminent threat grants* alleviate an imminent threat to public health or safety that requires immediate resolution. This type of grant is awarded only after an Area ONAP determines that such conditions exist and if funds are available for such grants. 


(b) *Size of grants*—(1) *Ceilings.* Each Area ONAP may recommend grant ceilings for single purpose grant applications. Single purpose grant ceilings for each Area ONAP shall be established in the NOFA (Notice of Funding Availability). 


(2) *Individual grant amounts.* An Area ONAP may approve a grant amount less than the amount requested. In doing so, the Area ONAP may take into account the size of the applicant, the level of demand, the scale of the activity proposed relative to need and operational capacity, the number of persons to be served, the amount of funds required to achieve project objectives, the reasonableness of the project costs, and the administrative capacity of the applicant to complete the activities in a timely manner.



---

[N] [61 FR 40090, July 31, 1996. Redesignated at 62 FR 12349, Mar. 12, 1998, as amended at 66 FR 4580, Jan. 17, 2001; 66 FR 8176, Jan. 30, 2001]




