# § 405.2411   Scope of benefits.

(a) The following RHC and FQHC services are reimbursable under this subpart:


(1) The physicians' services specified in § 405.2412. 


(2) Services and supplies furnished as an incident to a physician's professional service.


(3) The nurse practitioner or physician assistant services specified in § 405.2414. 


(4) Services and supplies furnished as incident to the services of a nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse midwife, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, or mental health counselor.


(5) Visiting nurse services when provided in accordance with 1861(aa)(1) of the Act and § 405.2416.


(6) Clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, and mental health counselor services as specified in § 405.2450.


(7) Intensive outpatient services when provided in accordance with section 1861(ff)(4) of the Act and § 410.44 of this chapter.


(b) RHC and FQHC services are—


(1) Covered when furnished in a RHC, FQHC, or other outpatient setting, including a patient's place of residence;


(2) Covered when furnished during a Part A stay in a skilled nursing facility only when provided by a physician, nurse practitioner, physician assistant, certified nurse midwife, clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, or mental health counselor employed or under contract with the RHC or FQHC at the time the services are furnished;


(3) Inclusive of hospice attending physician services, and are covered when furnished during a patient's hospice election only when provided by an RHC/FQHC physician, nurse practitioner, or physician assistant designated by the patient as his or her attending physician and employed or under contract with the RHC or FQHC at the time the services are furnished; and


(4) Not covered in a—


(i) Hospital as defined in section 1861(e) of the Act; or


(ii) Critical access hospital as defined in section 1861(mm)(1) of the Act.



---

[N] [43 FR 8261, Mar. 1, 1978, as amended at 79 FR 25475, May 2, 2014; 86 FR 65660, Nov. 19, 2021; 88 FR 79523, Nov. 16, 2023; 88 FR 82176, Nov. 22, 2023]




