# § 122.27   Documents required.

(a) *Crewmembers and passengers.* Crewmembers and passengers on a private aircraft arriving in the U.S. shall make baggage declarations as set forth in part 148 of this chapter. An oral declaration of articles acquired in foreign areas shall be made, unless a written declaration on Customs Form 6059-B is found necessary by inspecting officers.


(b) *Cargo.* (1) On arrival, cargo and unaccompanied baggage not carried for hire aboard a private aircraft may be listed on a baggage declaration on Customs Form 6059-B, and shall be entered. If the cargo or unaccompanied baggage is not listed on a baggage declaration, it shall be entered in the same manner as cargo carried for hire into the U.S.


(2) On departure, when a private aircraft leaves the U.S. carrying cargo not for hire, the Bureau of Census (15 CFR part 30) and the Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR parts 730 through 774) and any other applicable export laws shall be followed. A foreign landing certificate or certified copy of a foreign Customs entry is required as proof of exportation if the cargo includes:


(i) Merchandise valued at more than $500.00; or


(ii) More than one case of alcoholic beverages withdrawn from a Customs bonded warehouse or otherwise in bond for direct exportation by private aircraft.


(c) *Pilot certificate/license, certificate of registration*—(1) *Pilot certificate/license.* A commander of a private aircraft arriving in the U.S. must present for inspection a valid pilot certificate/license, medical certificate, authorization, or license held by that person, when presentation for inspection is requested by a Customs officer.


(2) *Certificate of registration.* A valid certificate of registration for private aircraft which are U.S.-registered must also be presented upon arrival in the U.S., when presentation for inspection is requested by a Customs officer. A so-called “pink slip” is a duplicate copy of the Aircraft Registration Application (FAA Form AC 8050-1), and does not constitute a valid certificate of registration authorizing travel internationally.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 91-61, 56 FR 32086, July 15, 1991; CBP Dec. 04-28, 69 FR 52599, Aug. 27, 2004]




