# § 9.1   Definitions.

(a) *General.* For purposes of this part, and unless the specific context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*American viticultural area.* A viticultural area as defined in § 4.25(e)(1)(i) of this chapter.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.9, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 9, American Viticultural Areas.


*Approved map.* The U.S.G.S. map(s) used to define the boundary of an approved AVA.


*AVA.* An American viticultural area.


*Perfected petition.* A petition containing all of the evidence meeting the requirements of § 9.12 and containing sufficient supporting information for TTB to decide whether or not to proceed with rulemaking to establish a new AVA or to change an existing AVA.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity.


*Petition.* A written request to establish a new AVA or to change an existing AVA, signed by the petitioner or an authorized agent of the petitioner, and submitted in accordance with this part and § 70.701(c) of this chapter.


*Petitioner.* An individual or entity that submits a petition to TTB.


*Term of viticultural significance.* A name recognized under § 4.39(i)(3) of this chapter.


*TTB.* The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*U.S.G.S.* The United States Geological Survey.


(b) *Use of other terms.* Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act and used in this part shall have the same meaning assigned to it by that Act.




