# § 721.10420   Fluoropolymers (generic) (P-11-567, P-11-568, and P-11-569).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fluoropolymers (PMNs P-11-567, P-11-568, and P-11-569) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substances after it has been completely reacted (cured). These PMN substances, which have been molded into final articles and which are recycled into non-virgin raw material are again subject to the requirements of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* A significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of manufacture, import, or processing associated with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as follows:


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, imported, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a SDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive this substance from the employer are provided a SDS as described in § 721.72(c) containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 24626, Apr. 25, 2012]




