# § 380.5   Actions that require an environmental assessment.

(a) An environmental assessment will normally be prepared first for the actions identified in this section. Depending on the outcome of the environmental assessment, the Commission may or may not prepare an environmental impact statement. However, depending on the location or scope of the proposed action, or the resources affected, the Commission may in specific circumstances proceed directly to prepare an environmental impact statement. 


(b) The projects subject to an environmental assessment are as follows:


(1) Except as identified in §§ 380.4, 380.6 and 2.55 of this chapter, authorization for the site of new gas import/export facilities under DOE Delegation No. 0204-112 and authorization under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act for the construction, replacement, or abandonment of compression, processing, or interconnecting facilities, onshore and offshore pipelines, metering facilities, LNG peak-shaving facilities, or other facilities necessary for the sale, exchange, storage, or transportation of natural gas;


(2) Prior notice filings under § 157.208 of this chapter for the rearrangement of any facility specified in §§ 157.202 (b)(3) and (6) of this chapter or the acquisition, construction, or operation of any eligible facility as specified in §§ 157.202 (b)(2) and (3) of this chapter;


(3) Abandonment or reduction of natural gas service under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act unless excluded under § 380.4 (a)(21), (28) or (29); 


(4) Except as identified in § 380.6, conversion of existing depleted oil or natural gas fields to underground storage fields under section 7 of the Natural Gas Act. 


(5) New natural gas curtailment plans, or any amendment to an existing curtailment plan under section 4 of the Natural Gas Act and sections 401 through 404 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 that has a major effect on an entire pipeline system;


(6) Licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and part 4 of this chapter for construction of any water power project—existing dam; 


(7) Exemptions under section 405 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended, and §§ 4.30(b)(31) and 4.101-4.108 of this chapter for small hydroelectric power projects of 10 MW or less; 


(8) Licenses for additional project works at licensed projects under Part I of the Federal Power Act whether or not these are styled license amendments or original licenses; 


(9) Licenses under Part I of the Federal Power Act and part 4 of this chapter for transmission lines only; 


(10) Applications for new licenses under section 15 of the Federal Power Act; 


(11) Approval of electric interconnections and wheeling under section 202(b), 210, 211, and 212 of the Federal Power Act, unless excluded under § 380.4(a)(17);


(12) Regulations or proposals for legislation not included under § 380.4(a)(2);


(13) Surrender of water power licenses and exemptions where project works exist or ground disturbing activity has occurred and amendments to water power licenses and exemptions that require ground disturbing activity or changes to project works or operations; and


(14) Except as identified in § 380.6, authorization to site new electric transmission facilities under section 216 of the Federal Power Act and DOE Delegation Order No. 00-004.00A.



---

[N] [Order 486, 52 FR 47910, Dec. 17, 1987; Order 486, 53 FR 4817, Feb. 17, 1988, as amended by 53 FR 8177, Mar. 14, 1988; Order 486-B, 53 FR 26437, July 13, 1988; Order 689, 71 FR 69470, Dec. 1, 2006; Order 756, 77 FR 4895, Feb. 1, 2012; Order 800, 79 FR 59112, Oct. 1, 2014]




