# ยง 625.2   Definitions.

(a) *DOE.* DOE is the Department of Energy established by Public Law 95-91 (42 U.S.C. 7101 *et seq.*) and any component thereof including the SPR Office. 


(b) *Notice of Sale.* The Notice of Sale is the document announcing the sale of SPR petroleum, the amount, type and location of the petroleum being sold, the delivery period and the procedures for submitting offers. The Notice of Sale will specify which contractual provisions and financial and performance responsibility measures are applicable to that particular sale of petroleum, and will provide other pertinent information.


(c) *Petroleum.* Petroleum means crude oil, residual fuel oil or any refined petroleum product (including any natural gas liquid and any natural gas liquid product) owned or contracted for by DOE and in storage in any permanent SPR facility, or temporarily stored in other storage facilities, or in transit to such facilities (including petroleum under contract but not yet delivered to a loading terminal).


(d) *Price Competitive Sale.* A price competitive sale of SPR petroleum is one in which contract awards are made to those responsive, responsible persons offering the highest prices; sales conducted pursuant to rules adopted under section 161(e) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), Public Law 94-163 (42 U.S.C. 6201 *et seq.*), are not price competitive sales.


(e) *Purchaser.* A purchaser is any person or entity (including a Government agency) which enters into a contract with DOE to purchase SPR petroleum.


(f) *SPR.* SPR is the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, that program of the Department of Energy established by title I, part B of EPCA.


(g) *Standard Sales Provisions.* The Standard Sales Provisions are a set of terms and conditions of sale, which may contain or describe financial and performance responsibility measures, for petroleum sold from the SPR under this part.




