# ยง 52.920   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State Implementation Plan for Kentucky under section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401, and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to September 30, 2022, for the Commonwealth of Kentucky and September 30, 2022, for Jefferson County, Kentucky, was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._ Entries in paragraph (c), Tables 1 and 2, and paragraph (d) of this section with EPA approval dates after September 30, 2022, for the Commonwealth of Kentucky and September 30, 2022, for Jefferson County, Kentucky, will be incorporated by reference in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region 4 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by EPA in the SIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated State rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the State Implementation Plan as of the dates referenced in paragraph (b)(1).


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Region 4 EPA office at 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, GA 30303. To obtain the material, please call (404) 562-9022. You may also inspect the material with an EPA approval date prior to September 30, 2022, for the Commonwealth at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.*

(c) *EPA-approved laws and regulations.*

(d) *EPA-approved source-specific requirements.*

(e) *EPA-approved non-regulatory provisions.*


---

[N] [64 FR 28750, May 27, 1999]


