# § 110.138   Boston Harbor, Mass.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Bird Island Anchorage.* Beginning at a point bearing 93°, 1,400 yards, from the aerial beacon on top of the Boston Custom House tower; thence to a point bearing 81°, 1,600 yards, from the aerial beacon on top of the Boston Custom House tower; thence to a point bearing 102°, 3,100 yards, from the aerial beacon on top of the Boston Custom House tower; thence to a point bearing 109°, 3,050 yards, from the aerial beacon on top of the Boston Custom House tower; and thence to the point of beginning. 


(2) *President Roads Anchorage*—(i) *40-foot anchorage.* Beginning at a point bearing 237°, 522 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 254°, 2,280 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 261°, 2,290 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 278°, 2,438 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 319°, 933 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 319°, 666 yards from Deer Island Light; and thence to point of beginning. 


(ii) *35-foot anchorage.* Beginning at a point bearing 256°, 2,603 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 258°30′, 3,315 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 264°, 3,967 yards from Deer Island Light; thence to a point bearing 261°, 2,290 yards from Deer Island Light; and thence to point of beginning. 


(3) *Long Island Anchorage.* East of Long Island, bounded as follows: Beginning at the southwesternmost point of Gallups Island; thence 270° to Long Island; thence southerly along the eastern shore line of Long Island to Bass Point; thence to the northernmost point of Rainsford Island; thence to Georges Island Gong Buoy 6; and thence to the point of beginning. 


(4) *Castle Island Anchorage.* Bounded on the north by Castle Island and adjacent land; on the east by a line between Castle Rocks Fog Signal Light and Old Harbor Shoal Buoy 2; on the southeast by a line between Old Harbor Shoal Buoy 2 and Old Harbor Buoy 4; and on the west by a line running due north from Old Harbor Buoy 4 to the shore line at City Point. 


(5) *Explosives anchorage.* In the lower harbor, bounded on the northeast by a line between the northeast end of Peddocks Island and the northeast end of Rainsford Island; on the northwest by Rainsford Island; on the southwest by a line between the western extremity of Rainsford Island and the westernmost point of Peddocks Island; and on the southeast by Peddocks Island. 


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The Captain of the Port may authorize the use of the President Roads Anchorage as an explosives anchorage when he finds that the interests of commerce will be promoted and that safety will not be prejudiced thereby. Vessels anchored in this area shall move promptly upon notification by the Captain of the Port. 


(2) In the Long Island Anchorage vessels shall anchor in the position designated by the Captain of the Port. 


(3) Floats or buoys for marking anchors or moorings in place will be allowed in all areas. Fixed mooring piles or stakes are prohibited. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967. Redesignated by CGD-01-02-027, 67 FR 68518, Nov. 12, 2002]




