# § 1.905-4   Notification of foreign tax redetermination.

(a) *Application of this section.* The rules of this section apply if, as a result of a foreign tax redetermination (as defined in § 1.905-3(a)), a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required under section 905(c) and § 1.905-3(b).


(b) *Time and manner of notification*—(1) *Redetermination of U.S. tax liability*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(v) and (b)(2) through (4) of this section, any taxpayer for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required must notify the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the foreign tax redetermination by filing an amended return, Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations) or Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)), and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for the taxable year with respect to which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required. Such notification must be filed within the time prescribed by this paragraph (b) and contain the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. If a foreign tax redetermination requires an individual to redetermine the individual's U.S. tax liability, and if, after taking into account such foreign tax redetermination, the amount of creditable foreign taxes (as defined in section 904(j)(3)(B)) that are paid or accrued by such individual during the taxable year does not exceed the applicable dollar limitation in section 904(j), the individual is not required to file Form 1116 with the amended return for such taxable year if the individual satisfies the requirements of section 904(j).


(ii) *Increase in amount of U.S. tax liability.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) and (b)(2) through (4) of this section, for each taxable year of the taxpayer with respect to which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination that increases the amount of U.S. tax liability, for example, by reason of a downward adjustment to the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer or a foreign corporation with respect to which the taxpayer computes an amount of foreign taxes deemed paid, the taxpayer must file a separate notification by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs.


(iii) *Decrease in amount of U.S. tax liability.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) and (b)(2) through (4) of this section, for each taxable year of the taxpayer with respect to which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination that decreases the amount of U.S. tax liability and results in an overpayment, for example, by reason of an increase in the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer or a foreign corporation with respect to which the taxpayer computes an amount of foreign taxes deemed paid, the taxpayer must file a claim for refund with the IRS within the period provided in section 6511. See section 6511(d)(3)(A) for the special refund period for refunds attributable to an increase in foreign tax credits.


(iv) *Multiple redeterminations of U.S. tax liability for same taxable year.* The rules of this paragraph (b)(1)(iv) apply except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(v) and (b)(2) through (4) of this section. If more than one foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability for the same affected taxable year of the taxpayer and those foreign tax redeterminations occur within the same taxable year or within two consecutive taxable years of the taxpayer, the taxpayer may file for the affected taxable year one amended return, Form 1118 or Form 1116, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section that reflects all such foreign tax redeterminations. If the taxpayer chooses to file one notification for such redeterminations, one or more of such redeterminations would increase the U.S. tax liability, and the net effect of all such redeterminations is to increase the U.S. tax liability for the affected taxable year, the taxpayer must file such notification by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the first foreign tax redetermination that would result in an increased U.S. tax liability occurred. If the taxpayer chooses to file one notification for such redeterminations, one or more of such redeterminations would decrease the U.S. tax liability, and the net effect of all such redeterminations is to decrease the total amount of U.S. tax liability for the affected taxable year, the taxpayer must file such notification as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, within the period provided by section 6511. If a foreign tax redetermination with respect to the taxable year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required occurs after the date for providing such notification, more than one amended return may be required with respect to that taxable year.


(v) *Amended return required only if there is a change in amount of U.S. tax due.* If a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination (or multiple foreign tax redeterminations, in the case of redeterminations described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section), but does not change the amount of U.S. tax due for any taxable year, the taxpayer may, in lieu of applying the applicable rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, notify the IRS of such redetermination by attaching a statement to the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs. The statement must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs and contain the information described in § 1.904-2(f). If a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination (either alone, or if the taxpayer chooses to apply paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, in combination with other foreign tax redeterminations, as provided therein) and the redetermination of U.S. tax liability results in a change to the amount of U.S. tax due for a taxable year, but does not change the amount of U.S. tax due for other taxable years, for example, because of a carryback or carryover of an unused foreign tax under section 904(c), the notification requirements for such other taxable years are deemed to be satisfied if the taxpayer complies with the applicable rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section with respect to each taxable year for which the foreign tax redetermination changes the amount of U.S. tax due.


(2) *Notification with respect to a change in the amount of foreign tax reported to an owner by a pass-through entity*—(i) *In general.* If a partnership, trust, or other pass-through entity that reports to its beneficial owners (or to any intermediary on behalf of its beneficial owners), including partners, shareholders, beneficiaries, or similar persons, an amount of creditable foreign tax expenditures, such pass-through entity must notify both the IRS and its owners of any foreign tax redetermination described in § 1.905-3(a) with respect to the foreign tax so reported. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), whether or not a redetermination has occurred within the meaning of § 1.905-3(a) is determined as if the pass-through entity were a domestic corporation which had elected to and claimed foreign tax credits in the amount reported for the year to which such foreign taxes relate. The notification required under this paragraph (b)(2) must include the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section along with any information necessary for the owners to redetermine their U.S. tax liability.


(ii) *Partnerships subject to subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Code.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, if a redetermination of U.S. tax liability that is required under § 1.905-3(b) by reason of a foreign tax redetermination described in § 1.905-3(a) would require a partnership adjustment as defined in § 301.6241-1(a)(6) of this chapter, the partnership must file an administrative adjustment request under section 6227 and make any adjustments required under section 6227. See §§ 301.6227-2 and 301.6227-3 of this chapter for procedures for making adjustments with respect to an administrative adjustment request. An administrative adjustment request required under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of the original return for the partnership's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs, and the restrictions in section 6227(c) do not apply to such filing. However, unless the administrative adjustment request may otherwise be filed after applying the limitations contained in section 6227(c), such a request is limited to adjustments that are required to be made under section 905(c). The requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section are deemed to be satisfied with respect to any item taken into account in an administrative adjustment request filed under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii).


(3) *Alternative notification requirements.* An amended return and Form 1118 (Foreign Tax Credit—Corporations) or Form 1116 (Foreign Tax Credit (Individual, Estate, or Trust)), is not required to notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination and redetermination of U.S. tax liability if the taxpayer satisfies alternative notification requirements that may be prescribed by the IRS through forms, instructions, publications, or other guidance.


(4) *Taxpayers under examination within the jurisdiction of the Large Business and International Division*—(i) *In general.* The alternative notification requirements of this paragraph (b)(4) apply if all of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section are satisfied.


(A) A foreign tax redetermination occurs while the taxpayer is under examination within the jurisdiction of the Large Business and International Division.


(B) The foreign tax redetermination results in an adjustment to the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the taxpayer or a foreign corporation with respect to which the taxpayer computes an amount of foreign income taxes deemed paid.


(C) The foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability that increases the amount of U.S. tax liability, and accordingly, but for this paragraph (b)(4), the taxpayer would be required to notify the IRS of such foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (determined without regard to paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section) or paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. See paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section regarding foreign tax redeterminations that decrease the amount of U.S. tax liability.


(D) The return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required is under examination.


(E) The due date specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section for providing notice of such foreign tax redetermination is not before the later of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning an examination of the return for the taxable year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of such foreign tax redetermination.


(ii) *Notification requirements*—(A) *Foreign tax redetermination occurring before commencement of the examination.* If a foreign tax redetermination described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(B) and (C) of this section occurs before the later of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter and if the condition provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(E) of this section with respect to such foreign tax redetermination is met, the taxpayer, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section (requiring the filing of an amended return, Form 1116 or 1118, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section) or paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section (requiring the filing of an administrative adjustment request), must notify the IRS of such redetermination by providing the statement described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section to the examiner no later than 120 days after the later of the date of the opening conference of the examination, or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter concerning the examination.


(B) *Foreign tax redetermination occurring within 180 days after commencement of the examination.* If a foreign tax redetermination described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(B) and (C) of this section occurs on or after the latest of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter and on or before the date that is 180 days after the later of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter, the taxpayer, in lieu of applying the rules of paragraph (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section or paragraph (b)(2) of this section, must notify the IRS of such redetermination by providing the statement described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section to the examiner no later than 120 days after the date the foreign tax redetermination occurs.


(C) *Foreign tax redetermination occurring more than 180 days after commencement of the examination.* If a foreign tax redetermination described in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(B) and (C) of this section occurs after the date that is 180 days after the later of the opening conference or the hand-delivery or postmark date of the opening letter, the taxpayer must either apply the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section or paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or, in lieu of applying paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section or paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provide the statement described in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section to the examiner within 120 days after the date the foreign tax redetermination occurs. However, the IRS, in its discretion, may either accept such statement or require the taxpayer to comply with the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section or paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as applicable.


(iii) *Statement.* The statement required by paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section must provide the original amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued, the revised amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued, and documentation with respect to the revisions, including exchange rates and dates of accrual or payment, and, if applicable, the information described in paragraph (c)(8) of this section. The statement must include the following declaration signed by a person authorized to sign the return of the taxpayer: “Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I have examined this written statement, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, this written statement is true, correct, and complete.”


(iv) *Penalty for failure to file notice of a foreign tax redetermination.* A taxpayer subject to the rules of this paragraph (b)(4) must satisfy the rules of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section in order not to be subject to the penalty relating to the failure to file notice of a foreign tax redetermination under section 6689 and § 301.6689-1 of this chapter.


(v) *Notification of foreign tax redetermination that decreases U.S. tax liability in an affected year under audit.* A taxpayer may (but is not required to) notify the IRS as provided in this paragraph (b)(4)(v) if the taxpayer has a foreign tax redetermination that meets the conditions in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A), (B), and (D) of this section and results in a decrease in the amount of U.S. tax liability that, but for this paragraph (b)(4), would require the taxpayer to notify the IRS of such foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section (determined without regard to paragraphs (b)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section). The notification should be made in the time and manner specified in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. The IRS, in its discretion, may either accept such alternate notification or require the taxpayer to comply with the rules of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (iii) or paragraphs (b)(2) of this section, as applicable.


(5) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (b) of this section.


(i) *Example 1.* (A) X, a domestic corporation, is an accrual basis taxpayer and uses the calendar year as its U.S. taxable year. X conducts business through a branch in Country M, the currency of which is the m, and also conducts business through a branch in Country N, the currency of which is the n. X uses the average exchange rate to translate foreign income taxes. X is able to claim a credit under section 901 for all foreign income taxes paid or accrued.


(B) In Year 1, X accrued and paid 100m of Country M income taxes with respect to 400m of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 1 was $1:1m. Also in Year 1, X accrued and paid 50n of Country N income taxes with respect to 150n of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 1 was $1:1n. On its Year 1 Federal income tax return, X claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $150 ($100 (100m translated at $1:1m) + $50 (50n translated at $1:1n)) with respect to its foreign source foreign branch category income. See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1).


(C) In Year 2, X accrued and paid 100n of Country N income taxes with respect to 300n of foreign source foreign branch category income. The average exchange rate for Year 2 was $1.50:1n. On its Year 2 Federal income tax return, X claimed a foreign tax credit under section 901 of $150 (100n translated at $1.5:1n). See § 1.986(a)-1(a)(1).


(D) On June 15, Year 5, when the spot rate was $1.40:1n, X received a refund of 10n from Country N, and, on March 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.20:1m, X was assessed by and paid Country M an additional 20m of tax. Both payments were with respect to X's foreign source foreign branch category income in Year 1. On May 15, Year 6, when the spot rate was $1.45:1n, X received a refund of 5n from Country N with respect to its foreign source foreign branch category income in Year 2.


(E) Both of the refunds and the assessment are foreign tax redeterminations under § 1.905-3(a). Under § 1.905-3(b)(1), X must redetermine its U.S. tax liability for both Year 1 and Year 2. With respect to Year 1, under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section X must notify the IRS of the June 15, Year 5, refund of 10n from Country N that increased X's U.S. tax liability by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1 by the due date of the original return (with extensions) for Year 5. The amended return and Form 1118 would reflect the reduced amount of foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 and the increase in X's U.S. tax liability of $10 (10n refund translated at the average exchange rate for Year 1, or $1:1n (see § 1.986(a)-1(c)). With respect to the March 15, Year 6, additional assessment of 20m by Country M, under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section X must notify the IRS within the time period provided by section 6511, increasing the foreign income taxes available as a credit and reducing X's U.S. tax liability by $24 (20m translated at the spot rate on the date of payment, or $1.20:1m). See sections 986(a)(1)(B)(i) and 986(a)(2)(A) and § 1.986(a)-1(a)(2)(i). X may so notify the IRS by filing a second amended return, Form 1118, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1, within the time period provided by section 6511. Alternatively, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, when X redetermines its U.S. tax liability for Year 1 to take into account the 10n refund from Country N that occurred in Year 5, X may also take into account the 20m additional assessment by Country M that occurred on March 15, Year 6. If X reflects both foreign tax redeterminations on the same amended return, Form 1118, and in the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for Year 1, the amount of X's foreign income taxes available as a credit would be reduced by $10 (10n refund translated at $1:1n), and increased by $24 (20m additional assessment translated at the spot rate on the date of payment, March 15, Year 6, or $1.20:1m). The foreign income taxes available as a credit therefore would be increased by $14 ($24 (additional assessment)−$10 (refund)). Because the net effect of the foreign tax redeterminations is to increase the amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued and decrease X's U.S. tax liability for Year 1, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section the Year 1 amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required in paragraph (c) of this section reflecting foreign tax redeterminations in both years must be filed within the period provided by section 6511.


(F) With respect to Year 2, under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section X must notify the IRS by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 2, in addition to the amended return, Form 1118, and statement that are required by reason of the separate foreign tax redeterminations that affect Year 1. The amended return, Form 1118, and the statement required by paragraph (c) of this section for Year 2 must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of X's original return for Year 6. The amended return and Form 1118 must reflect the reduced amount of foreign income taxes claimed as a credit under section 901 and the increase in X's U.S. tax liability of $7.50 (5n refund translated at the average exchange rate for Year 2, or $1.50:1n).


(ii) *Example 2.* X, a taxpayer within the jurisdiction of the Large Business and International Division, uses the calendar year as its U.S. taxable year. On November 15, Year 2, X receives a refund of foreign income taxes that constitutes a foreign tax redetermination and necessitates a redetermination of U.S. tax liability for X's Year 1 taxable year. Under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, X is required to notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination that increased its U.S. tax liability by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for its Year 1 taxable year by October 15, Year 3 (the due date (with extensions) of the original return for X's Year 2 taxable year). On December 15, Year 3, the IRS hand delivers an opening letter concerning the examination of the return for X's Year 1 taxable year, and the opening conference for such examination is scheduled for January 15, Year 4. Because the date for notifying the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (October 15, Year 3) is before the date of the opening conference concerning the examination of the return for X's Year 1 taxable year (January 15, Year 4), the condition of paragraph (b)(4)(i)(E) of this section is not met, and so paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section does not apply. Accordingly, X must notify the IRS of the foreign tax redetermination by filing an amended return, Form 1118, and the statement described in paragraph (c) of this section for the Year 1 taxable year by October 15, Year 3.


(6) *Transition rule for certain foreign tax redeterminations.* In the case of foreign tax redeterminations occurring in taxable years ending on or after December 16, 2019, and before November 12, 2020, and foreign tax redeterminations of foreign corporations occurring in taxable years that end with or within a taxable year of a United States shareholder ending on or after December 16, 2019, and before November 12, 2020, any amended return or other notification that under paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (iv), or (v) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be filed by the due date (with extensions) of, or attached to, the original return for the taxpayer's taxable year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs must instead be filed by the due date (with extensions) of, or attached to, the original return for the taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after November 12, 2020. For purposes of paragraph (b)(4)(i)(E) of this section, the relevant due date is the due date specified in this paragraph (b)(6).


(c) *Notification contents.* The statement required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) and (b)(2) of this section must contain information sufficient for the IRS to redetermine U.S. tax liability if such a redetermination is required under section 905(c). The information must be in a form that enables the IRS to verify and compare the original computation of U.S. tax liability, the revised computation resulting from the foreign tax redetermination, and the net changes resulting therefrom. The statement must include the following:


(1) The taxpayer's name, address, identifying number, the taxable year or years of the taxpayer that are affected by the foreign tax redetermination, and, in the case of foreign taxes deemed paid, the name and identifying number, if any, of the foreign corporation;


(2) The date or dates the foreign income taxes were accrued, if applicable; the date or dates the foreign income taxes were paid; the amount of foreign income taxes paid or accrued on each date (in foreign currency) and the exchange rate used to translate each such amount, as provided in § 1.986(a)-1(a) or (b);


(3) Information sufficient to determine any change to the characterization of a distribution, the amount of any inclusion under section 951(a), 951A, or 1293, or the deferred tax amount under section 1291;


(4) Information sufficient to determine any interest due from or owing to the taxpayer, including the amount of any interest paid by the foreign government to the taxpayer and the dates received;


(5) In the case of any foreign income tax that is refunded in whole or in part, the taxpayer must provide the date of each such refund; the amount of such refund (in foreign currency); and the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit (as provided in § 1.986(a)-1(c)) and the spot rate (as defined in § 1.988-1(d)) for the date the refund was received (for purposes of computing foreign currency gain or loss under section 988);


(6) In the case of any foreign income taxes that are not paid on or before the date that is 24 months after the close of the taxable year to which such taxes relate, the amount of such taxes in foreign currency, and the exchange rate that was used to translate such amount when originally claimed as a credit or added to PTEP group taxes (as defined in § 1.960-3(d)(1));


(7) If a redetermination of U.S. tax liability results in an amount of additional tax due, and the carryback or carryover of an unused foreign income tax under section 904(c) only partially eliminates such amount, the information required in § 1.904-2(f); and


(8) In the case of a pass-through entity, the name, address, and identifying number of each beneficial owner to which foreign taxes were reported for the taxable year or years to which the foreign tax redetermination relates, and the amount of foreign tax initially reported to each beneficial owner for each such year and the amount of foreign tax allocable to each beneficial owner for each such year after the foreign tax redetermination is taken into account.


(d) *Payment or refund of U.S. tax.* The amount of tax, if any, due upon a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is paid by the taxpayer after notice and demand has been made by the IRS. Subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to deficiency procedures) does not apply with respect to the assessment of the amount due upon such redetermination. In accordance with sections 905(c) and 6501(c)(5), the amount of additional tax due is assessed and collected without regard to the provisions of section 6501(a) (relating to limitations on assessment and collection). The amount of tax, if any, shown by a redetermination of U.S. tax liability to have been overpaid is credited or refunded to the taxpayer in accordance with subchapter B of chapter 66 (sections 6511 through 6515).


(e) *Interest and penalties*—(1) *In general.* If a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is required by reason of a foreign tax redetermination, interest is computed on the underpayment or overpayment in accordance with sections 6601 and 6611. No interest is assessed or collected on any underpayment resulting from a refund of foreign income taxes for any period before the receipt of the refund, except to the extent interest was paid by the foreign country or possession of the United States on the refund for the period before the receipt of the refund. See section 905(c)(5). In no case, however, will interest assessed and collected pursuant to the preceding sentence for any period before receipt of the refund exceed the amount that otherwise would have been assessed and collected under section 6601 for that period. Interest is assessed from the time the taxpayer (or the foreign corporation, partnership, trust, or other pass-through entity of which the taxpayer is a shareholder, partner, or beneficiary) receives a refund until the taxpayer pays the additional tax due the United States.


(2) *Imposition of penalty.* Failure to comply with the provisions of this section subjects the taxpayer to the penalty provisions of section 6689 and § 301.6689-1 of this chapter.


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to foreign tax redeterminations (as defined in § 1.905-3(a)) occurring in taxable years ending on or after December 16, 2019, and to foreign tax redeterminations of foreign corporations occurring in taxable years that end with or within a taxable year of a United States shareholder ending on or after December 16, 2019.



---

[N] [T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72063, Nov. 12, 2020]








