# § 400.0   Definitions.

The definitions in this part are for terms used in this chapter, and to define for USDA terms present in 2 CFR Subtitle A but not defined in that subtitle. Different definitions may be found in Federal statutes, regulations, or other sources that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities. Where parts of this chapter provide alternate definitions than those in this part, those definitions take precedence over any definition in this part. For terms used in this chapter that are not defined in this part, the definitions in 2 CFR part 200 apply. All terms not otherwise defined will use the dictionary definition.


*Audiovisual* means a product containing visual imagery or sound or both. Examples of audiovisuals are motion pictures, live or prerecorded radio or television programs, slide shows, filmstrips, audio recordings, and multimedia presentations.


*Awarding official* means a person with the authority to enter into, administer, and/or terminate financial assistance awards and make related determinations and findings.


*Construction* means construction, alteration, or repair (including dredging, excavating, and painting) of buildings, structures, or other real property. For purposes of this definition, the terms “buildings, structures, or other real property” include, but are not limited to, improvements of all types, such as bridges, dams, plants, highways, parkways, streets, subways, tunnels, sewers, mains, power lines, cemeteries, pumping stations, railways, airport facilities, terminals, docks, piers, wharves, ways, lighthouses, buoys, jetties, breakwaters, levees, canals, and channels. For the purposes of 2 CFR part 184, construction also encompasses structures, facilities, and equipment incorporated into an infrastructure project regardless of whether they constitute real property.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Discretionary award* means an award in which the Federal awarding agency, in keeping with specific statutory authority that enables the agency to exercise judgment (“discretion”), selects the recipient and/or the amount of Federal funding awarded through a competitive process or based on merit of proposals. A discretionary award may be selected by a USDA awarding agency on a non-competitive basis exclusively under the conditions set forth at 2 CFR 415.1.


*Eligible applications* means those materials which have been submitted by a recipient for consideration for an award of Federal financial assistance and have been determined to comply with the minimum documentation and other requirements, which may be identified in respective notices of funding opportunities and applicable Federal statutes or regulations that apply more specifically to particular programs or activities.


*Federal financial assistance support* means the transfer of anything of value by a USDA awarding agency through a Federal financial assistance instrument as defined at 2 CFR part 200.1, inclusive of Federally funded subawards and subcontracts under such instruments, to a recipient. Such support may be provided as a cash or in-kind contribution.


*Geospatial data* means information that is tied to a location on the Earth, including by identifying the geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed features and boundaries on the Earth, and that is generally represented in vector datasets by points, lines, polygons, or other complex geographic features or phenomena; may be derived from, among other things, remote sensing, mapping, and surveying technologies; includes images and raster datasets, aerial photographs, and other forms of geospatial data or datasets in digitized or non-digitized form.


*Information* means any communication or representation of knowledge, such as facts, data, or opinions in any medium or form, including textual, numerical, graphic, cartographic, narrative, or audiovisual forms.


*Information dissemination product* means any recorded information, regardless of physical form or characteristics, disseminated to the public.


*Maintenance* means those activities conducted for the repair or upkeep of buildings, structures, facilities, and equipment which neither add to the permanent value of the property nor appreciably prolong its intended life, but keep it in an efficient operating condition.


*Production of an audiovisual* means any steps that lead to a finished audiovisual, including but not limited to design, layout, script-writing, filming, editing, fabrication, sound recording or taping. The term does not include the placing of captions to make accessible films or videotapes not originally produced for use by individuals who are Deaf or hard of hearing.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*USDA* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*USDA awarding agency* means any component agency or staff office of the U.S. Department of Agriculture which provides any Federal financial assistance to or executes a Federal financial assistance instrument with a recipient.






