# ยง 385.218   Simplified procedure for complaints involving small controversies (Rule 218).

(a) *Eligibility.* The procedures under this section are available to complainants if the amount in controversy is less than $100,000 and the impact on other entities is *de minimis.*

(b) *Contents.* A complaint filed under this section must contain:


(1) The name of the complainant;


(2) The name of the respondent;


(3) A description of the relationship to the respondent;


(4) The amount in controversy;


(5) A statement why the complaint will have a *de minimis* impact on other entities;


(6) The facts and circumstances surrounding the complaint, including the legal or regulatory obligation breached by the respondent; and


(7) The requested relief.


(c) *Service.* The complainant is required to simultaneously serve the complaint on the respondent and any other entity referenced in the complaint.


(d) *Notice.* Public notice of the complaint will be issued by the Commission.


(e) *Answers, interventions and comments.* (1) An answer to a complaint is required to conform to the requirements of ยง 385.213(c)(1), (2), and (3).


(2) Answers, interventions and comments must be filed within 10 days after the complaint is filed. In cases where the complainant requests privileged treatment for information in its complaint, answers, interventions, and comments must be filed within 20 days after the complaint is filed. In the event there is an objection to the protective agreement, the Commission will establish when answers, interventions, and comments are due.


(f) *Privileged treatment.* If a complainant seeks privileged treatment for any documents submitted with the complaint, a complainant must use the procedures described in section 385.206(e). If a respondent seeks privileged treatment for any documents submitted with the answer, a respondent must use the procedures described in section 385.213(c)(5).



---

[N] [Order 602, 64 FR 17099, Apr. 8, 1999]




