# § 151.50-10   Alkylene oxides.

(a) For the purpose of this part, alkylene oxides are considered to be ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. 


(b) Alkylene oxides transported under the provisions of this part shall be acetylene free. 


(c)(1) No other product may be transported in tanks certified for an alkylene oxide except that the Commandant may approve subsequent transportation of other products and return to alkylene oxide service if tanks, piping and auxiliary equipment are adequately cleaned to the satisfaction of the Marine Inspector. 


(2) Unless authorized by the Commandant, no other kind of cargo except methane, ethane, propane, butane and pentane shall be on board a tank vessel certificated for the carriage of an alkylene oxide at the same time an alkylene oxide in either the liquid or vapor state is present in any cargo tank. Alkylene oxide tanks shall not be installed in tanks intended for any other cargo. 


(d) All valves, flanges, fittings, and accessory equipment shall be of a type suitable for use with the alkylene oxides and shall be made of steel or stainless steel, or other materials acceptable to the Commandant. Impurities of copper, magnesium and other acetylide-forming metals shall be kept to a minimum. The chemical composition of all material used shall be submitted to the Commandant for approval prior to fabrication. Disks or disk faces, seats and other wearing parts of valves shall be made of stainless steel containing not less than 11 percent chromium. Mercury, silver, aluminum, magnesium, copper, and their alloys shall not be used for any valves, gauges, thermometers, or any similar devices. Gaskets shall be constructed of spirally wound stainless steel with “Teflon” or other suitable material. All packing and gaskets shall be constructed of materials which do not react spontaneously with or lower the autoignition temperature of the alkylene oxides. 


(e) The pressure rating of valves, fittings, and accessories shall be not less than the maximum pressure for which the cargo tank is designed, or the shutoff head of the cargo pump, whichever is greater, but in no case less than 150 pounds per square inch. Welded fittings manufactured in accordance with A.N.S.I. Standards shall be used wherever possible, and the number of pipe joints shall be held to a minimum. Threaded joints in the cargo liquid and vapor lines are prohibited. 


(f) The thermometer shall terminate in the liquid space and shall be attached to the shell by welding with the end of the fitting being provided with a gastight screwed plug or bolted cover. 


(g) Automatic float continuous reading tape gauge, and similar types, shall be fitted with a shutoff valve located as close to the tank as practicable, which shall be designed to close automatically in the event of fracture of the external gauge piping. An auxiliary gauging device shall always be used in conjunction with an automatic gauging device. 


(h) Filling and discharge piping shall extend to within 4 inches of the bottom of the tank or sump pit if one is provided. 


(i) *Venting.* (1) The discharge fittings from each safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be directed in such a manner as to not impinge on another tank, piping or any other equipment which would increase the fire hazard should burning products be discharged from the safety or pressure vacuum relief valve as a result of a fire or other casualty. In addition, the discharges shall be directed away from areas where it is likely that persons might be working and as remote as practicable from ventilation inlets and ignition sources. A common discharge header may be employed if desired. The area near the discharge fittings shall be clearly marked as a hazardous area. 


(2) A means shall be provided for either the reclamation or safe venting of vapors during the loading and unloading operations. For this purpose, the safety relief or pressure vacuum relief valve shall be provided with a valved bypass to a vapor return line shore connection which shall be used whenever vapor return shore facilities are available. In the event vapors must be vented to the atmosphere, a vent riser shall be connected to the vapor return line and extend at least 12 feet above the highest level accessible to personnel. The vent riser may be collapsible for ease of stowage when not in use. The vent riser shall not be connected to a safety relief or pressure vacuum valve. Vapor return lines or vent risers for tanks carrying the same class product may be connected to a common header system if desired. Tanks carrying alkylene oxides shall be vented independent of tanks carrying other products. 


(3) The outlet of each vent riser shall be fitted with acceptable corrosion-resistant flame screen of suitable material or a flame arrester suitable for use with alkylene oxide. 


(j) *Ventilation.* (1) All enclosed spaces within the hull shall be vented or ventilated in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter except as otherwise provided for in this subpart. 


(2) The enclosed spaces in which the cargo tanks are located shall be inerted by injection of a suitable inert gas or shall be well ventilated. 


(3) The enclosed spaces in which the cargo tanks are located, if an inerting system is not installed, shall be fitted with forced ventilation of such capacity to provide a complete change of air every three minutes and arranged in such a manner that any vapors lost into the space will be removed. The ventilation system shall be in operation at all times cargo is being loaded or discharged. No electrical equipment shall be fitted within the spaces or within ten feet of the ventilation exhaust from these spaces. 


(4) All ventilation machinery shall be of nonsparking construction and shall not provide a source of vapor ignition. 


(5) Each vent shall be fitted with a flame screen of corrosion resistant wire which is suitable for use with the alkylene oxide. 


(k)(1) Flexible metal hose fabricated of stainless steel or other acceptable material, resistant to the action of the alkylene oxide, shall be fitted to the liquid and vapor lines during cargo transfer. 


(2) The hose shall be marked with the maximum pressure guaranteed by the manufacturer, and with his certification with the words “Certified for __________ Oxide.” 


(3) Cargo hose intended for alkylene oxide service shall not be used for any other products except those which are compatible with the alkylene oxide. 


(l) Vessel shall be electrically bonded to the shore piping prior to connecting the cargo hose. This electrical bonding shall be maintained until after the cargo hose has been disconnected and any spillage has been removed. 


(m) Cargo shall be discharged by pumping or by displacement with nitrogen or other acceptable inert gas. In no case shall air be allowed to enter the system. During loading and unloading operations, the vapor shall not be discharged to the atmosphere. Provisions shall be made to return all displaced vapor to the loading facility. The loading rate and the pressure applied to the tank to discharge the cargo shall be so limited to prevent opening the safety relief valves. 


(n) During cargo transfer, a water hose with pressure to the nozzle, when atmospheric temperatures permit, shall be connected to a water supply for immediate use during filling and discharge operations and any spillage of alkylene oxide shall be immediately washed away. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore. 


(o) Prior to disconnecting shore lines, the pressure in the liquid and vapor lines shall be relieved through suitable valves installed at the loading header. The liquid and vapor discharged from these lines shall not be discharged to atmosphere. 


(p) The safety relief valves shall be tested by liquid, gas, or vapor pressure at least once every 2 years to determine the accuracy of adjustment and, if necessary, shall be reset. Alkylene oxides shall not be used as the testing medium. 


(q) The special requirements for ethylene oxide contained in § 151.50-12 and for propylene oxide contained in § 151.50-13 shall also be observed. 



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970, as amended by CGD 85-061, 54 FR 50966, Dec. 11, 1989]




