# § 1.481-5   Eligible terminated S corporation.

(a) *Scope.* Section 481(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) and this section provide rules relating to the qualification of a corporation as an eligible terminated S corporation (ETSC). Paragraph (b) of this section sets forth the requirements a corporation must meet to qualify as an ETSC. Paragraph (c) of this section describes certain transfers and other events that are disregarded for purposes of determining whether a corporation qualifies as an ETSC, as well as the treatment of revocations for which the effective date is the first day of the taxable year during which the revocation is made. Paragraph (d) of this section contains examples illustrating the rules of this section.


(b) *ETSC qualification.* For a C corporation to qualify as an ETSC, it must satisfy the following requirements:


(1) The corporation must have been an S corporation on December 21, 2017;


(2) During the 2-year period beginning on December 22, 2017, the corporation must have made a valid revocation of its S election under section 1362(d)(1) and the regulatory provisions in this part under section 1362 of the Code (revocation); and


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the owners of the shares of stock of the corporation must be the same (and in identical proportions) on both:


(i) December 22, 2017; and


(ii) The day on which the revocation is made.


(c) *Special rules*—(1) *Certain disregarded events.* The following events are disregarded for purposes of determining whether the requirement in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is satisfied:


(i) Transfers of stock between a shareholder and that shareholder's trust treated as wholly owned by that shareholder under subpart E of subchapter J of chapter 1 of the Code;


(ii) Transfers of stock between a shareholder and an entity owned by that shareholder that is disregarded as separate from its owner under § 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i) of the Procedure and Administration Regulations;


(iii) An election by a shareholder trust to be treated as part of a decedent's estate under section 645 of the Code or the termination of an election under that section;


(iv) A change in the status of a shareholder trust from one type of eligible S corporation shareholder trust described in section 1361(c)(2)(A) of the Code to another type of eligible S corporation shareholder trust; for example, a trust to which the shares of stock were transferred pursuant to the terms of a will (testamentary trust) described in section 1361(c)(2)(A)(iii) that elects to become an electing small business trust described in section 1361(c)(2)(A)(v) and (e); and


(v) A transaction that includes more than one of the events described in this paragraph (c)(1).


(2) *Certain revocations.* For purposes of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a revocation with an effective date that is the first day of the taxable year during which the revocation is made pursuant to section 1362(d)(1)(C)(i) may be treated as having been made on the day the revocation was made or on the effective date of the revocation.


(d) *Examples.* Paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section (*Examples 1* through *3*) illustrate the rules of this section. For purposes of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section (*Examples 1* through *3*), as of December 1, 2017, X is a calendar year S corporation with 100 shares of stock outstanding that is owned equally by unrelated individuals A and B. Pursuant to section 1362(d)(1) and §§ 1.1362-2 and 1.1362-6, X made a valid revocation of its S election on March 15, 2019, effective on January 1, 2019. X treats the revocation as having been made on March 15, 2019, for purposes of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3)(ii). At all times, X has a single class of stock outstanding. Paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section (*Examples 1* through *3*) describe all relevant transactions involving the X stock from December 1, 2017, until March 15, 2019.


(1) *Example 1*—(i) *Facts.* On June 5, 2018, A contributed 20 of its shares of X stock to Y, a wholly owned limited liability company that is disregarded as an entity separate from A pursuant to § 301.7701-2(c)(2)(i). On June 14, 2018, A contributed all of its interest in Y to Trust, which was a revocable trust treated as a wholly owned grantor trust of A pursuant to sections 671 and 676 of the Code. On December 27, 2018, B sold 10 shares of its X stock to C, an unrelated person.


(ii) *Analysis.* X is an ETSC if it satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(A) *S corporation.* X was an S corporation on December 21, 2017. Therefore, X satisfies the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(B) *Date of revocation.* X made a valid revocation of its S election pursuant to section 1362(d)(1) on March 15, 2019, which is during the two-year period specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Therefore, X satisfies the requirement of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(C) *Ownership.* For purposes of the requirement in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the relevant dates are: December 22, 2017, and March 15, 2019 (the date X made a revocation of its S corporation status).


(*1*) *A's ownership interest.* As of December 22, 2017, A owned 50 shares of the outstanding shares of X stock. On June 5, 2018, A contributed 20 of its shares of X stock to Y (Transfer). On June 14, 2018, A contributed all of its interest in Y to Trust (Contribution). Both the Transfer and the Contribution are disregarded for purposes of determining whether the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section is satisfied. See paragraphs (c)(2) and (1) of this section, respectively. Therefore, A owns 50 shares of the outstanding stock of X on March 15, 2019.


(*2*) *B's ownership interest.* As of December 22, 2017, B owned 50 shares of the outstanding shares of X stock. On December 27, 2018, B sold 10 shares to C. Therefore, B owns 40 shares of the outstanding stock of X on March 15, 2019.


(*3*) *C's ownership interest.* As of December 22, 2017, C owned no shares of X stock. On December 27, 2018, C purchased 10 shares from B. Therefore, C owns 10 shares of the outstanding stock of X on March 15, 2019.


(*4*) *Failure to satisfy the requirement in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.* As described in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(C)(*2*) and (*3*) of this section, B's and C's interest in X were not in the same proportions on December 22, 2017, and March 15, 2019. Therefore, X does not satisfy the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section and does not qualify as an ETSC.


(iii) *Restoration of interests prior to end of PTTP.* If C transferred its shares of X stock back to B on February 1, 2019, then on December 22, 2017, and March 15, 2019, A and B will have owned 50 shares of the outstanding stock of X. Under these facts, X satisfies the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section and qualifies as an ETSC.


(2) *Example 2*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, except that B sold 10 shares of its X stock to C on December 18, 2017, in addition to the sale of 10 shares of X stock on December 27, 2018.


(ii) *Analysis.* The analysis in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section remains the same regarding the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section. With respect to the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, on December 22, 2017, A owned 50%, B owned 40%, and C owned 10% of the outstanding stock of X. As in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(C)(*1*) of this section, the Transfer and the Contribution are disregarded for purposes of determining whether the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section is satisfied. Therefore, on March 15, 2019, A owned 50% (50 shares), B owned 30% (30 shares), and C owned 20% (20 shares) of the outstanding shares of X. Even though A, B, and C owned shares of X on December 22, 2017, B's and C's proportionate ownership interest of X stock was not the same on December 22, 2017, and March 15, 2019. Therefore, X does not satisfy the requirement of paragraph (b)(3) of this section and does not qualify as an ETSC.


(3) *Example 3*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, except that X made a valid revocation of its S election on November 1, 2019, effective on January 1, 2020.


(ii) *Analysis.* The analysis in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section remains the same regarding the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) through (3) of this section, except that the relevant dates are: December 22, 2017, and November 1, 2019 (the date X made a revocation of its S corporation status). Although the effective date of X's revocation of its S election (January 1, 2020) occurs after the conclusion of the two-year period specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it is irrelevant for purposes of determining whether the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) and (3) of this section are satisfied.





---

[N] [T.D. 9914, 85 FR 66476, Oct. 20, 2020]








