# § 1626.2   Definitions.

(a) *Anti-abuse statutes* means the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, Pub. L. 103-322, 108 Stat. 1941, as amended, and the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, Public Law 109-162, 119 Stat. 2960 (collectively referred to as “VAWA”); Section 101(a)(15)(U) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U); and the incorporation of these statutory provisions in section 502(a)(2)(C) of LSC's FY 1998 appropriation, Public Law 105-119, Title V, 111 Stat. 2440, 2510 as incorporated by reference thereafter; the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386, 114 Stat. 1464 (“TVPA”), as amended; and Section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (“INA”), 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(T).


(b) *Battered or subjected to extreme cruelty* includes, but is not limited to, being the victim of any act or threatened act of violence, including any forceful detention, which results or threatens to result in physical or mental injury. Psychological or sexual abuse or exploitation, including rape, molestation, incest (if the victim is a minor), or forced prostitution may be considered acts of violence. Other abusive actions may also be acts of violence under certain circumstances, including acts that, in and of themselves, may not initially appear violent but that are a part of an overall pattern of violence.


(c) *Certification* means the certification prescribed in 22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(E).


(d) *Citizen* means a person described or defined as a citizen or national of the United States in 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22) and Title III of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), Chapter 1 (8 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.*) (citizens by birth) and Chapter 2 (8 U.S.C. 1421 *et seq.*) (citizens by naturalization) or antecedent citizen statutes.


(e) *Eligible alien* means a person who is not a citizen but who meets the requirements of § 1626.4 or § 1626.5.


(f) *Ineligible alien* means a person who is not a citizen and who does not meet the requirements of § 1626.4 or § 1626.5.


(g) *On behalf of* an ineligible alien means to render legal assistance to an eligible client that benefits an ineligible alien and does not affect a specific legal right or interest of the eligible client.


(h)(1) *Qualifies for immigration relief under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the INA* means:


(i) A person who has been granted relief under that section;


(ii) A person who has applied for relief under that section and who the recipient determines has evidentiary support for such application; or


(iii) A person who has not filed for relief under that section, but who the recipient determines has evidentiary support for filing for such relief.


(2) A person who *qualifies for immigration relief under section 101(a)(15)(U) of the INA* includes any person who may apply for primary U visa relief under subsection (i) of section 101(a)(15)(U) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)(i)) or for derivative U visa relief for family members under subsection (ii) of section 101(a)(15)(U) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(U)(ii)). Recipients may provide assistance for any person who qualifies for derivative U visa relief regardless of whether such a person has been subjected to abuse.


(i) *Rejected* refers to an application for adjustment of status that has been denied by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and is not subject to further administrative appeal.


(j) *Victim of severe forms of trafficking* means any person described at 22 U.S.C. 7105(b)(1)(C).


(k) *Victim of sexual assault or trafficking* means:


(1) *A victim of sexual assault* subjected to any conduct included in the definition of sexual assault in VAWA, 42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(29); or


(2) *A victim of trafficking* subjected to any conduct included in the definition of “trafficking” under law, including, but not limited to, local, state, and federal law, and T visa holders regardless of certification from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).


(l) *United States,* for purposes of this part, has the same meaning given that term in section 101(a)(38) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(38)).



---

[N] [79 FR 30052, May 27, 2014]




