# § 414.1460   Monitoring and program integrity.

(a) *Vetting eligible clinicians.* Prior to payment of the APM Incentive Payment, CMS determines if eligible clinicians were in compliance with all Medicare conditions of participation and the terms of the relevant Advanced APMs in which they participated during the QP Performance Period. A determination under this provision is not binding for other purposes.


(b) *Rescinding QP Determinations.* CMS may rescind a QP determination if:


(1) Any of the information CMS relied on in making the QP determination was inaccurate or misleading.


(2) The QP is terminated from an Advanced APM or Other Payer Advanced APM during the QP Performance Period or Incentive Payment Base Period; or


(3) The QP is found to be in violation of the terms of the relevant Advanced APM or any relevant Federal, State, or tribal statute or regulation during the QP Performance Period or Incentive Payment Base Period.


(c) *Information submitted for All-Payer Combination Option.* Information submitted by payers, APM Entities, or eligible clinicians for purposes of the All-Payer Combination Option may be subject to audit by CMS.


(d) *Reducing, denying, and recouping of APM Incentive Payments.* (1) CMS may reduce or deny an APM Incentive Payment to an eligible clinician.


(i) Who CMS determines is not in compliance with all Medicare conditions of participation and the terms of the relevant Advanced APM in which they participate during the QP Performance Period or Incentive Payment Base Period;


(ii) Who is terminated by an APM or Advanced APM during the QP Performance Period or Incentive Payment Base Period; or


(iii) Whose APM Entity is terminated by an APM or Advanced APM for non-compliance with any Medicare condition of participation or the terms of the relevant Advanced APM in which they participate during the QP Performance Period or Incentive Payment Base Period.


(2) CMS may reopen, revise, and recoup an APM Incentive Payment that was made in error in accordance with procedures similar to those set forth at §§ 405.980 through § 405.986 and §§ 405.370 through 405.379 of this chapter or as established under the relevant APM.


(e) *Maintenance of records.* (1) A payer that submits information to CMS under § 414.1445 for assessment under the All-Payer Combination Option must maintain such books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence as necessary to enable the audit of an Other Payer Advanced APM determination. Such information and supporting documentation must be maintained for a period of 6 years after submission.


(2) An APM Entity or eligible clinician that submits information to CMS under § 414.1445 for assessment under the All-Payer Combination Option or § 414.1440 for QP determinations must maintain such books, contracts, records, documents, and other evidence as necessary to enable the audit of an Other Payer Advanced APM determination, QP determinations, and the accuracy of APM Incentive Payments for a period of 6 years from the end of the QP Performance Period or from the date of completion of any audit, evaluation, or inspection, whichever is later.


(3) A payer, APM Entity or eligible clinician that submits information to CMS under §§ 414.1440 or 414.1445 must provide such information and supporting documentation to CMS upon request.


(f) *OIG authority.* None of the provisions of this part limit or restrict OIG's authority to audit, evaluate, investigate, or inspect the Advanced APM Entity, its eligible clinicians, and other individuals or entities performing functions or services related to its APM activities.



---

[N] [81 FR 77537, Nov. 4, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 53965, Nov. 16, 2017]




