# ยง 1710.404   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings. In the event there is overlap or conflict between the definitions contained in ยง 1710.2, the definitions set forth below will apply for loans made or guaranteed pursuant to this subpart.


*British thermal unit (Btu)* means the quantity of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit.


*Certified energy auditor* means:


(1) A certified energy auditor for commercial and industrial energy efficiency improvements shall mean an energy auditor who meets at least one of the following criteria:


(i) An individual possessing a current commercial or industrial energy auditor certification from a national, industry-recognized organization;


(ii) A Licensed Professional Engineer in the State in which the audit is conducted with at least 1 year experience and who has completed at least two similar type Energy Audits;


(iii) An individual with a four-year engineering or architectural degree with at least 3 years experience and who has completed at least five similar type Energy Audits; or


(iv) Beginning in calendar year 2015, an energy auditor certification recognized by the Department of Energy through its Better Buildings Workforce Guidelines project.


(2) A certified energy auditor for residential energy efficiency improvements shall mean an energy auditor that meets one of the following criteria:


(i) The workforce qualification requirements of the Home Performance with Energy Star Program, as outlined in Section 3 of the Home Performance with Energy Star Sponsor Guide; or


(ii) An individual possessing a current residential energy auditor or building analyst certification from a national, industry-recognized organization.


*Cost effective* means the aggregate cost of an EE Program is less than the financial benefit of the program over time. The cost of a program for this purpose shall include the costs of incentives, measurement and verification activity and administrative costs, and the benefits shall include, without limitation, the value of energy saved, the value of corresponding avoided generation, transmission or distribution and reserve investments as may be displaced or deferred by program activities, and the value of corresponding avoided greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants.


*Demand* means the electrical load averaged over a specified interval of time. Demand is expressed in kilowatts, kilovolt amperes, kilovars, amperes, or other suitable units. The interval of time is generally 15 minutes, 30 minutes, or 60 minutes.


*Demand savings* means the quantifiable reduction in the load requirement for electric power, usually expressed in kilowatts (kW) or megawatts (MW) such that it reduces the cost to serve the load.


*Eligible borrower* means a utility system that has direct or indirect responsibility for providing retail electric service to persons in a rural area. This definition includes existing borrowers and utilities who meet current RUS borrower requirements.


*Energy audit* means an inspection and analysis of energy flows in a building, process, or system with the goal of identifying opportunities to enhance energy efficiency. The activity should result in an objective standard-based technical report containing recommendations for improving the energy efficiency. The report should also include an analysis of the estimated benefits and costs of pursuing each recommendation and the simple payback period.


*Energy efficiency and conservation measures* means equipment, materials and practices that when installed and used at a Consumer's premises result in a verifiable reduction in energy consumption, measured in Btus, or demand as measured in Btu-hours, or both, at the point of purchase relative to a base level of output. The ultimate goal is the reduction of utility or consumer energy needs.


*Energy efficiency and conservation program (EE Program)* means a program of activities undertaken or financed by a utility within its service territory to reduce the amount or rate of energy used by Consumers relative to a base level of output.


*HVAC* means heating, ventilation, and air conditioning.


*Load* means the Power delivered to power utilization equipment performing its normal function.


*Load factor* means the ratio of the average load over a designated period of time to the peak load occurring in the same period.


*Peak demand (or maximum demand)* means the highest demand measured over a selected period of time, e.g., one month.


*Peak demand reduction* means a decrease in electrical demand on an electric utility system during the system's peak period, calculated as the reduction in maximum average demand achieved over a specified interval of time.


*Power* means the rate of generating, transferring, or using energy. The basic unit is the watt, where one Watt is approximately 3.41213 Btu/hr.


*Re-lamping* means the initial conversion of bulbs or light fixtures to more efficient lighting technology but not the replacement of like kind bulbs or fixtures after the initial conversion.


*SI* means the International System of Units: the modern metric system.


*Smart Grid Investments* means capital expenditures for devices or systems that are capable of providing real time, two way (utility and Consumer) information and control protocols for individual Consumer owned or operated appliances and equipment, usually through a Consumer interface or smart meter.


*Ultimate recipient* means a Consumer that receives a loan from a borrower under this subpart.


*Utility Energy Services Contract (UESC)* means a contract whereby a utility provides a Consumer with comprehensive energy efficiency improvement services or demand reduction services.


*Utility system* means an entity in the business of providing retail electric service to Consumers (distribution entity) or an entity in the business of providing wholesale electric supply to distribution entities (generation entity) or an entity in the business of providing transmission service to distribution or generation entities (transmission entity), where, in each case, the entities provide the applicable service using self-owned or controlled assets under a published tariff that the entity and any associated regulatory agency may adjust.


*Watt* means the SI unit of power equal to a rate of energy transfer (or the rate at which work is done), of one joule per second.



---

[N] [78 FR 73366, Dec. 5, 2013, as amended at 87 FR 73438, Nov. 30, 2022]




