# § 571.205   Standard No. 205, Glazing materials.

S1. *Scope.* This standard specifies requirements for glazing materials for use in motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment.


S2. *Purpose.* The purpose of this standard is to reduce injuries resulting from impact to glazing surfaces, to ensure a necessary degree of transparency in motor vehicle windows for driver visibility, and to minimize the possibility of occupants being thrown through the vehicle windows in collisions.


S3. *Application.*

(a) This standard applies to passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks designed to carry at least one person, buses, motorcycles, slide-in campers, pickup covers designed to carry persons while in motion and low speed vehicles, and to glazing materials for use in those vehicles.


(b) For glazing materials manufactured before September 1, 2006, and for motor vehicles, slide-in campers and pickup covers designed to carry persons while in motion, manufactured before November 1, 2006, the manufacturer may, at its option, comply with 49 CFR 571.205(a) of this section.


S4. *Definitions.*

*Bullet resistant shield* means a shield or barrier that is installed completely inside a motor vehicle behind and separate from glazing materials that independently comply with the requirements of this standard.


*Camper* means a structure designed to be mounted in the cargo area of a truck, or attached to an incomplete vehicle with motive power, for the purpose of providing shelter for persons.


*Glass-plastic glazing material* means a laminate of one or more layers of glass and one or more layers of plastic in which a plastic surface of the glazing faces inward when the glazing is installed in a vehicle.


*Pickup cover* means a camper having a roof and sides but without a floor, designed to be mounted on and removable from the cargo area of a truck by the user.


*Prime glazing manufacturer* means a manufacturer that fabricates, laminates, or tempers glazing materials. 


*Slide-in camper* means a camper having a roof, floor, and sides, designed to be mounted on and removable from the cargo area of a truck by the user.


S5. *Requirements.*

S5.1 Glazing materials for use in motor vehicles must conform to ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5), unless this standard provides otherwise. SAE Recommended Practice J673 (1993) (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) is referenced in ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996.


S5.1.1 *Multipurpose passenger vehicles.* Except as otherwise specifically provided by this standard, glazing for use in multipurpose passenger vehicles shall conform to the requirements for glazing for use in trucks as specified in ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5).


S5.1.2 *Aftermarket replacement glazing.* Glazing intended for aftermarket replacement is required to meet the requirements of this standard or the requirements of 49 CFR 571.205(a) applicable to the glazing being replaced.


S5.1.3 *Location of arrow within “AS” markings.* In ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) Section 7. “Marking of Safety Glazing Materials,” on page 33, in the right column, in the first complete sentence, the example markings “AS↓1”, “AS↓14” and “AS↑2” are corrected to read “A↓S1”, “A↓S14” and “A↑S2”. Note that the arrow indicating the portion of the material that complies with Test 2 is placed with its base adjacent to a horizontal line.


S5.2 Each of the test specimens described in ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5) Section 5.7 (fracture test) must meet the fracture test requirements of that section when tested in accordance with the test procedure set forth in that section.


S5.3 *Shade Bands.* Shade band areas for windshields shall comply with the requirements of either S5.3.1 or S5.3.2.


S5.3.1 Shade bands for windshields shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J100 (1995) (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5).


S5.3.2 Except as provided in S5.3.2.1, the lower boundary of shade bands for windshields shall be a plane inclined upwards from the X axis of the vehicle at 7 degrees, passing through point V_1_, and parallel to the Y axis. The coordinate system and point V_1_ shall be as specified in Annexes 18 and 19 of European Commission for Europe (ECE) Regulation No. 43 Revision 2—Amendment 1.


S5.3.2.1 In the area 300 mm wide centered on the intersection of the windshield surface and longitudinal vertical median plane of the vehicle, the lower boundary of shade bands for windshields shall be a plane inclined upwards from the X axis of the vehicle at 3 degrees, passing through point V_1_, and parallel to the Y axis.


S5.4 *Low speed vehicles.* Windshields of low speed vehicles must meet the ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 specifications for either AS-1 or AS-4 glazing. 


S5.5 Item 4A Glazing. Item 4A glazing may be used in all areas in which Item 4 safety glazing may be used, and also for side windows rearward of the “C” pillar. I.e., Item 4A glazing may be used under Item 4A paragraph (b) of ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996 only in side windows rearward of the “C” pillar.


S6. *Certification and marking.*

S6.1 A prime glazing material manufacturer must certify, in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 30115, each piece of glazing material to which this standard applies that is designed— 


(a) As a component of any specific motor vehicle or camper; or 


(b) To be cut into components for use in motor vehicles or items of motor vehicle equipment. 


S6.2 A prime glazing manufacturer certifies its glazing by adding to the marks required by section 7 of ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996, in letters and numerals of the same size, the symbol “DOT” and a manufacturer's code mark that NHTSA assigns to the manufacturer. NHTSA will assign a code mark to a manufacturer after the manufacturer submits a written request to the Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. The request must include the company name, address, and a statement from the manufacturer certifying its status as a prime glazing manufacturer as defined in S4. 


S6.3 A manufacturer or distributor who cuts a section of glazing material to which this standard applies, for use in a motor vehicle or camper, must— 


(a) Mark that material in accordance with section 7 of ANSI/SAE Z26.1-1996; and 


(b) Certify that its product complies with this standard in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 30115.



---

[N] [37 FR 12239, June 21, 1972]


