# § 21.80   Requirement for a rehabilitation plan.

(a) *General.* An IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) will be developed for each veteran eligible for rehabilitation services under Chapter 31. The plan is intended to assist in:


(1) Providing a structure which allows Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) staff to translate the findings made in the course of the initial evaluation into specific rehabilitation goals and objectives;


(2) Monitoring the veteran's progress in achieving the rehabilitation goals established in the plan;


(3) Assuring the timeliness of assistance by Department of Veterans Affairs staff in providing services specified in the plan; and


(4) Evaluating the effectiveness of the planning and delivery of rehabilitation services by VR&E staff.


(b) *When a plan is prepared.* A plan will be prepared in each case in which a veteran will pursue:


(1) A vocational rehabilitation program, as that term is defined in § 21.35(i); 


(2) An extended evaluation program; 


(3) An independent living services program; or 


(4) An employment program.


(c) *Plan—a generic term.* The term *plan* refers to the IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) § 21.84, IEEP (Individualized Extended Evaluation Plan) § 21.86, IEAP (Individualized Employment Assistance Plan) § 21.88, and IILP (Individualized Independent Living Plan) § 21.90.


(d) *Plan not required.* A plan will not be prepared for a veteran who is not eligible for any assistance under Chapter 31. Department of Veterans Affairs staff, with the veteran's assistance and cooperation, will utilize information developed in the course of an initial evaluation to assist the veteran to develop alternatives for education and training, independence in daily living, or employment assistance. This assistance should help the veteran in achieving attainable vocational, independent living and employment goals utilizing benefits and services for which the veteran may be eligible under other Department of Veterans Affairs or non-Department of Veterans Affairs programs.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




