# ยง 412.626   Transition period.

(a) *Duration of transition period and proportion of the blended transition rate.* (1) Except for a facility that makes an election under paragraph (b) of this section, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002 and before October 1, 2002, an inpatient rehabilitation facility receives a payment comprised of a blend of the adjusted Federal prospective payment, as determined under ยง 412.624(e) or ยง 412.624(f) and a facility-specific payment as determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(i) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002 and before October 1, 2002, payment is based on 33
1/3 percent of the facility-specific payment and 66
2/3 percent of the adjusted FY 2002 Federal prospective payment. 


(ii) For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2002, payment is based entirely on the adjusted Federal prospective payment. 


(2) *Calculation of the facility-specific payment.* The facility-specific payment is equal to the payment for each cost reporting period in the transition period that would have been made without regard to this subpart. The facility's Medicare fiscal intermediary calculates the facility-specific payment for inpatient operating costs and capital-related costs in accordance with part 413 of this chapter. 


(b) *Election not to be paid under the transition period methodology.* An inpatient rehabilitation facility may elect a payment that is based entirely on the adjusted Federal prospective payment for cost reporting periods beginning before fiscal year 2003 without regard to the transition period percentages specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. 


(1) *General requirement.* An inpatient rehabilitation facility will be required to request the election under this paragraph (b) within 30 days of its first cost reporting period for which payment is based on the inpatient rehabilitation facility prospective payment system for cost reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2002 and before October 1, 2002. 


(2) *Notification requirement to make election.* The request by the inpatient rehabilitation facility to make the election under this paragraph (b) must be made in writing to the Medicare fiscal intermediary. The intermediary must receive the request on or before the 30th day before the applicable cost reporting period begins, regardless of any postmarks or anticipated delivery dates. Requests received, postmarked, or delivered by other means after the 30th day before the cost reporting period begins will not be approved. If the 30th day before the cost reporting period begins falls on a day that the postal service or other delivery sources are not open for business, the inpatient rehabilitation facility is responsible for allowing sufficient time for the delivery of the request before the deadline. If an inpatient rehabilitation facility's request is not received timely or is otherwise not approved, payment will be based on the transition period rate specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. 



---

[N] [66 FR 41388, Aug. 7, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 44077, July 1, 2002]




