# § 125.327   Briefing of passengers before flight.

(a) Before each takeoff, each pilot in command of an airplane carrying passengers shall ensure that all passengers have been orally briefed on—


(1) *Smoking.* Each passenger shall be briefed on when, where, and under what conditions smoking is prohibited. This briefing shall include a statement that the Federal Aviation Regulations require passenger compliance with the lighted passenger information signs, posted placards, areas designated for safety purposes as no smoking areas, and crewmember instructions with regard to these items. 


(2) *The use of safety belts, including instructions on how to fasten and unfasten the safety belts.* Each passenger shall be briefed on when, where, and under what conditions the safety belt must be fastened about him or her. This briefing shall include a statement that the Federal Aviation Regulations require passenger compliance with lighted passenger information signs and crewmember instructions concerning the use of safety belts. 


(3) The placement of seat backs in an upright position before takeoff and landing; 


(4) Location and means for opening the passenger entry door and emergency exits; 


(5) Location of survival equipment; 


(6) If the flight involves extended overwater operation, ditching procedures and the use of required flotation equipment; 


(7) If the flight involves operations above 12,000 feet MSL, the normal and emergency use of oxygen; and 


(8) Location and operation of fire extinguishers. 


(b) Before each takeoff, the pilot in command shall ensure that each person who may need the assistance of another person to move expeditiously to an exit if an emergency occurs and that person's attendant, if any, has received a briefing as to the procedures to be followed if an evacuation occurs. This paragraph does not apply to a person who has been given a briefing before a previous leg of a flight in the same airplane. 


(c) The oral briefing required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be given by the pilot in command or a member of the crew. It shall be supplemented by printed cards for the use of each passenger containing—


(1) A diagram and method of operating the emergency exits; and 


(2) Other instructions necessary for the use of emergency equipment on board the airplane. 


(d) The certificate holder shall describe in its manual the procedure to be followed in the briefing required by paragraph (a) of this section. 


(e) If the airplane does not proceed directly over water after takeoff, no part of the briefing required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section has to be given before takeoff but the briefing required by paragraph (a)(6) must be given before reaching the overwater part of the flight. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 19779, 45 FR 67235, Oct. 9, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 125-17, 57 FR 42675, Sept. 15, 1992]




