# § 217.104   Mitigation requirements.

When conducting the activities identified in § 217.100(a), the mitigation measures contained in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.106 must be implemented. These mitigation measures shall include but are not limited to:


(a) *General conditions.* (1) Researchers must observe a site from a distance for at least five minutes, using binoculars if necessary, to detect any marine mammals prior to approach to determine if mitigation is required (*i.e.,* site surveys will not be conducted if other species of pinnipeds are present, researchers will approach with caution, walking slowly, quietly, and close to the ground to avoid surprising any hauled-out individuals and to reduce flushing/stampeding of individuals).


(2) Researchers must avoid pinnipeds along access ways to sites by locating and taking a different access way. Researchers must keep a safe distance from and not approach any marine mammal while conducting research, unless it is absolutely necessary to approach a marine mammal in order to continue conducting research (*i.e.,* if a site cannot be accessed or sampled due to the presence of pinnipeds).


(3) Researchers must avoid making loud noises (*i.e.,* using hushed voices) and keep bodies low to the ground in the visual presence of pinnipeds.


(4) Researchers must monitor the offshore area for predators (such as killer whales and white sharks) and avoid flushing of pinnipeds when predators are observed in nearshore waters.


(5) Researchers must promptly vacate sites at the conclusion of sampling.


(b) *Pup protection measure.* Intentional approach must not occur if dependent pups are present to avoid mother/pup separation and trampling of pups. Staff shall reschedule work at sites where pups are present, unless other means of accomplishing the work can be done without causing disturbance to mothers and dependent pups.




