# ยง 170.439   How is a public hearing conducted?

(a) *Presiding official.* A Tribal (tribal council) or Federal (FHWA or BIA) official will be appointed to preside over the public hearing. The presiding official must encourage a free and open discussion of the issues.


(b) *Record of hearing.* The presiding official is responsible for compiling the official record of the hearing. A record of a hearing is a summary of oral testimony and all written statements submitted at the hearing. Additional written comments made or provided at the hearing, or within five working days of the hearing, will be made a part of the record.


(c) *Hearing process.* (1) The presiding official explains the purpose of the hearing and provides an agenda;


(2) The presiding official solicits public comments from the audience on the merits of TTP projects and activities; and


(3) The presiding official informs the hearing audience of the appropriate procedures for a proposed TTP project or activity that may include, but are not limited to:


(i) Project development activities;


(ii) Rights-of-way acquisition;


(iii) Environmental and archeological clearance;


(iv) Relocation of utilities and relocation services;


(v) Authorized payments under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act, 42 U.S.C. 4601 *et seq.,* as amended;


(vi) Draft transportation plan; and


(vii) The scope of the project and its effect on traffic during and after construction.


(d) *Availability of information.* Appropriate maps, plats, project plans, and specifications will be available at the hearing for public review. Appropriate officials must be present to answer questions.


(e) *Opportunity for comment.* Comments are received as follows:


(1) Oral statements at the hearing;


(2) Written statements submitted at the hearing; and


(3) Written statements sent to the address noted in the hearing notice within five working days following the public hearing.




