# ยง 240.12g3-2   Exemptions for American depositary receipts and certain foreign securities.

(a) Securities of any class issued by any foreign private issuer shall be exempt from section 12(g) (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(g)) of the Act if the class has fewer than 300 holders resident in the United States. This exemption shall continue until the next fiscal year end at which the issuer has a class of equity securities held by 300 or more persons resident in the United States. For the purpose of determining whether a security is exempt pursuant to this paragraph: 


(1) Securities held of record by persons resident in the United States shall be determined as provided in ยง 240.12g5-1 except that securities held of record by a broker, dealer, bank or nominee for any of them for the accounts of customers resident in the United States shall be counted as held in the United States by the number of separate accounts for which the securities are held. The issuer may rely in good faith on information as to the number of such separate accounts supplied by all owners of the class of its securities which are brokers, dealers, or banks or a nominee for any of them. 


(2) Persons in the United States who hold the security only through a Canadian Retirement Account (as that term is defined in rule 237(a)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933 (ยง 230.237(a)(2) of this chapter)), shall not be counted as holders resident in the United States.


(b)(1) A foreign private issuer shall be exempt from the requirement to register a class of equity securities under section 12(g) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78*l*(g)) if:


(i) The issuer is not required to file or furnish reports under section 13(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a)) or section 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d));


(ii) The issuer currently maintains a listing of the subject class of securities on one or more exchanges in a foreign jurisdiction that, either singly or together with the trading of the same class of the issuer's securities in another foreign jurisdiction, constitutes the primary trading market for those securities; and


(iii) The issuer has published in English, on its Internet Web site or through an electronic information delivery system generally available to the public in its primary trading market, information that, since the first day of its most recently completed fiscal year, it:


(A) Has made public or been required to make public pursuant to the laws of the country of its incorporation, organization or domicile;


(B) Has filed or been required to file with the principal stock exchange in its primary trading market on which its securities are traded and which has been made public by that exchange; and


(C) Has distributed or been required to distribute to its security holders.


(2)(i) In order to maintain the exemption under paragraph (b) of this section, a foreign private issuer shall publish, on an ongoing basis and for each subsequent fiscal year, in English, on its Internet Web site or through an electronic information delivery system generally available to the public in its primary trading market, the information specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(ii) An issuer must electronically publish the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section promptly after the information has been made public.


(3)(i) The information required to be published electronically under paragraph (b) of this section is information that is material to an investment decision regarding the subject securities, such as information concerning:


(A) Results of operations or financial condition;


(B) Changes in business;


(C) Acquisitions or dispositions of assets;


(D) The issuance, redemption or acquisition of securities;


(E) Changes in management or control;


(F) The granting of options or the payment of other remuneration to directors or officers; and


(G) Transactions with directors, officers or principal security holders.


(ii) At a minimum, a foreign private issuer shall electronically publish English translations of the following documents required to be published under paragraph (b) of this section if in a foreign language:


(A) Its annual report, including or accompanied by annual financial statements;


(B) Interim reports that include financial statements;


(C) Press releases; and


(D) All other communications and documents distributed directly to security holders of each class of securities to which the exemption relates.


(c) The exemption under paragraph (b) of this section shall remain in effect until:


(1) The issuer no longer satisfies the electronic publication condition of paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(2) The issuer no longer maintains a listing of the subject class of securities on one or more exchanges in a primary trading market, as defined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section; or


(3) The issuer registers a class of securities under section 12 of the Act or incurs reporting obligations under section 15(d) of the Act.


(d) Depositary shares registered on Form F-6 (ยง 239.36 of this chapter), but not the underlying deposited securities, are exempt from section 12(g) of the Act under this paragraph.



---

[N] [48 FR 46739, Oct. 14, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 12689, Mar. 30, 1984; 56 FR 30068, July 1, 1991; 65 FR 37676, June 15, 2000; 72 FR 16955, Apr. 5, 2007; 73 FR 52768, Sept. 10, 2008] 




