# § 304.23   Assurances that must be provided by grantee.

Before receiving an award, a grantee that intends to grant scholarships under the program must include in its application an assurance that the following requirements will be satisfied:


(a) *Requirement for agreement.* Prior to granting a scholarship, the grantee will require each scholar to enter into a written agreement in which the scholar agrees to the terms and conditions set forth in § 304.30. This agreement must explain the Secretary's authority to grant deferrals and exceptions to the service obligation pursuant to § 304.31 and include the current Department address for purposes of the scholar's compliance with § 304.30(i), or any other purpose under this part.


(b) *Standards for satisfactory progress.* The grantee must establish, notify scholars of, and apply reasonable standards for measuring whether a scholar is maintaining satisfactory progress in the scholar's course of study.


(c) *Exit certification.* (1) At the time of exit from the program, the grantee must provide the following information to the scholar:


(i) The number of years the scholar needs to work to satisfy the work requirements in § 304.30(d);


(ii) The total amount of scholarship assistance received subject to § 304.30;


(iii) The time period, consistent with § 304.30(f)(1), during which the scholar must satisfy the work requirements; and


(iv) As applicable, all other obligations of the scholar under § 304.30.


(2) Upon receipt of this information from the grantee, the scholar must provide written certification to the grantee that the information is correct.


(d) *Information.* The grantee must forward the information and written certification required in paragraph (c) of this section to the Secretary, as well as any other information that is necessary to carry out the Secretary's functions under section 662 of the Act and this part.


(e) *Notification to the Secretary.* If the grantee is aware that the scholar has chosen not to fulfill or will be unable to fulfill the obligation under § 304.30(d), the grantee must notify the Secretary when the scholar exits the program.


