# § 210.25   Sanctions.

(a)(1) Any party may file a motion for sanctions for abuse of process under 210.4(d)(1), abuse of discovery under § 210.27(g)(3), failure to make or cooperate in discovery under § 210.33(b) or (c), or violation of a protective order under § 210.34(c). A motion alleging abuse of process should be filed promptly after the requirements of § 210.4(d)(1)(i) have been satisfied. A motion alleging abuse of discovery, failure to make or cooperate in discovery, or violation of a protective order should be filed promptly after the allegedly sanctionable conduct is discovered. 


(2) The administrative law judge (when the investigation or related proceeding is before the administrative law judge) or the Commission (when the investigation or related proceeding is before it) also may raise the sanctions issue sua sponte. (See also §§ 210.4(d)(1)(ii), 210.27(g)(3), 210.33(c), and 210.34(c).)


(b) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the presiding administrative law judge, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred and is discovered while the administrative law judge is presiding in an investigation or in a related proceeding. During an investigation, the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion shall be in the form of an order, if it is issued before or concurrently with the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation. In a related proceeding, the administrative law judge's ruling shall be in the form of an order, regardless of the point in time at which the order is issued. 


(c) A motion for sanctions shall be addressed to the Commission, if the allegedly sanctionable conduct occurred while the Commission is presiding or is filed after the subject investigation or related proceeding is terminated. The Commission may assign the motion to an administrative law judge for issuance of a recommended determination. The deadlines and procedures that will be followed in processing the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge. 




(d) If an administrative law judge's order concerning sanctions is issued before the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of the investigation, it may be appealed under § 210.24(b)(1) with leave from the administrative law judge, if the requirements of that section are satisfied. If the order is issued concurrently with the initial determination, or if the administrative law judge denies leave to appeal a previously issued order under § 210.24(b)(1), the order may be appealed by filing a petition meeting the requirements of § 210.43(b) within the same time period specified in § 210.43(a) in which a petition for review of the initial determination terminating the investigation may be filed. The Commission will determine whether to adopt the order after disposition of the initial determination concerning violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation.


(e) If the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion for sanctions is in the form of a recommended determination pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the deadlines and procedures for parties to contest the recommended determination will be set forth in the Commission order assigning the motion to an administrative law judge. 




(f) If a motion for sanctions is filed with the administrative law judge during an investigation, the administrative law judge may defer adjudication of the motion until after the administrative law judge has issued a final initial determination concerning violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 or termination of investigation. If the administrative law judge defers adjudication in such a manner, the administrative law judge's ruling on the motion for sanctions must be in the form of a recommended determination and shall be issued no later than thirty (30) days after issuance of the Commission's final determination on violation of section 337 or termination of the investigation. Parties may submit comments on the recommended determination within ten (10) days from the service of the recommended determination. Parties may submit responses thereto within five (5) business days from service of any comments.



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38323, July 7, 2008; 83 FR 21161, May 8, 2018; 90 FR 242, Jan. 3, 2025]




