# § 60.482-1b   Standards: General.

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b or § 60.480b(e) for all equipment within 180 days of initial startup.


(b) Compliance with §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b will be determined by review of records and reports, review of performance test results, and inspection using the methods and procedures specified in § 60.485b.


(c)(1) An owner or operator may request a determination of equivalence of a means of emission limitation to the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-3b, 60.482-5b, 60.482-6b, 60.482-7b, 60.482-8b, and 60.482-10b as provided in § 60.484b.


(2) If the Administrator makes a determination that a means of emission limitation is at least equivalent to the requirements of § 60.482-2b, § 60.482-3b, § 60.482-5b, § 60.482-6b, § 60.482-7b, § 60.482-8b, or § 60.482-10b, an owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of that determination.


(d) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b through 60.482-11b if it is identified as required in § 60.486b(e)(5).


(e) Equipment that an owner or operator designates as being in VOC service less than 300 hr/yr is excluded from the requirements of §§ 60.482-2b through 60.482-11b if it is identified as required in § 60.486b(e)(6) and it meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The equipment is in VOC service only during startup and shutdown, excluding startup and shutdown between batches of the same campaign for a batch process.


(2) The equipment is in VOC service only during process malfunctions or other emergencies.


(3) The equipment is backup equipment that is in VOC service only when the primary equipment is out of service.


(f)(1) If a dedicated batch process unit operates less than 365 days during a year, an owner or operator may monitor to detect leaks from pumps, valves, and open-ended valves or lines at the frequency specified in the following table instead of monitoring as specified in §§ 60.482-2b, 60.482-7b, and 60.483.2a:


(2) Pumps and valves that are shared among two or more batch process units that are subject to this subpart may be monitored at the frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, provided the operating time of all such process units is considered.


(3) The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor at any time during the specified monitoring period (*e.g.,* month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. Reasonable intervals are defined in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) When monitoring is conducted quarterly, monitoring events must be separated by at least 30 calendar days.


(ii) When monitoring is conducted semiannually (*i.e.,* once every 2 quarters), monitoring events must be separated by at least 60 calendar days.


(iii) When monitoring is conducted in 3 quarters per year, monitoring events must be separated by at least 90 calendar days.


(iv) When monitoring is conducted annually, monitoring events must be separated by at least 120 calendar days.


(g) The standards in §§ 60.482-1b through 60.482-11b apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this provision supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in the general provisions in subpart A of this part.






