# § 1.2   Definitions.

(a) Terms defined in 23 U.S.C. 101(a), shall have the same meaning where used in the regulations in this part, except as modified herein.


(b) The following terms where used in the regulations in this part shall have the following meaning:


*Administrator.* The Federal Highway Administrator.


*Advertising policy.* The national policy relating to the regulation of outdoor advertising declared in title 23 U.S.C. 131.


*Advertising standards.* The “National Standards for Regulation by States of Outdoor Advertising Signs, Displays and Devices Adjacent to the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways” promulgated by the Secretary (part 20 of this chapter).


*Federal laws.* The provisions of title 23 U.S.C., and all other Federal laws, heretofore or hereafter enacted, relating to Federal aid for highways.


*Latest available Federal census.* The latest available Federal decennial census, except for the establishment of urban area.


*Project.* An undertaking by a State highway department for highway construction, including preliminary engineering, acquisition of rights-of-way and actual construction, or for highway planning and research, or for any other work or activity to carry out the provisions of the Federal laws for the administration of Federal aid for highways.


*Secondary road plan.* A plan for administration of Federal aid for highways on the Federal-aid secondary highway system pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 117.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Transportation.


*State.* Any State of the United States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.


*Urban area.* An area including and adjacent to a municipality or other urban place having a population of five thousand or more, as determined by the latest available published official Federal census, decennial or special, within boundaries to be fixed by a State highway department, subject to the approval of the Administrator.



---

[N] [25 FR 4162, May 11, 1960, as amended at 35 FR 18719, Dec. 10, 1970]




