# § 21.5076   Entitlement charge—overpayment cases.

(a) *Overpayment cases.* VA will make a charge against an individual's entitlement of an overpayment of educational assistance allowance only if:


(1) The overpayment is discharged in bankruptcy; or


(2) VA waives the overpayment and does not recover it; or


(3) The overpayment is compromised.


(b) *Debt discharged in bankruptcy or is waived.* If the overpayment is discharged in bankruptcy or is waived and is not recovered, the entitlement charge will be at the appropriate rate for the elapsed period covered by the overpayment (exclusive of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees).


(c) *Overpayment is compromised.* (1) If the overpayment is compromised and the compromise offer is less than the amount of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees, the charge against entitlement will be at the appropriate rate for the elapsed period covered by the overpayment (exclusive of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees).


(2) If the overpayment is compromised and compromise offer is equal to or greater than the amount of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees, the charge against entitlement will be determined by—


(i) Subtracting from the sum paid in the compromise offer the amount attributable to interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees.


(ii) Subtracting the remaining amount of the overpayment balance determined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section from the amount of the original overpayment (exclusive of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees),


(iii) Dividing the result obtained in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section by the amount of the original debt (exclusive of interest, administrative costs of collection, court costs and marshal fees), and


(iv) Multiplying the percentage obtained in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section by the amount of the entitlement otherwise chargeable for the period of the original overpayment.



---

[N] [45 FR 31, Jan. 2, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 45181, Nov. 25, 1987]




