# ยง 2400.20   Systematic review for declassification.

(a) *Permanent records.* Systematic review is applicable only to those classified records, and presidential papers or records that the Archivist of the United States, acting under the Federal Records Act, has determined to be of sufficient historical or other value to warrant permanent retention.


(b) *Non-permanent records.* Non-permanent classified records shall be disposed of in accordance with schedules approved by the Administrator of General Services under the Records Disposal Act. These schedules shall provide for the continued retention of records subject to an ongoing mandatory review for declassification request.


(c) *Office of Science and Technology Policy Responsibility.* The Director, OSTP, shall:


(1) Issue guidelines for systematic declassification review and, if applicable, for downgrading. These guidelines shall be developed in consultation with the Archivist and the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office and be designated to assist the Archivist in the conduct of systematic reviews;


(2) Designate experienced personnel to provide timely assistance to the Archivist in the systematic review process;


(3) Review and update guidelines for systematic declassification review and downgrading at least every five years unless earlier review is requested by the Archivist.


(d) *Foreign Government Information.* Systematic declassification review of foreign government information shall be in accordance with guidelines issued by the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office.


(e) *Special procedures.* The Office of Science and Technology Policy shall be bound by the special procedures for systematic review of classified cryptologic records and classified records pertaining to intelligence activities (including special activities) or intelligence sources or methods issued by the Secretary of Defense and the Director of Central Intelligence, respectively. 




