# ยง 234.2   Definitions.

Wherever used in the standard terms and conditions set out in this part:


*Applicant* means a Noteholder who files an Application for Compensation with USAID, either directly or through the Fiscal Agent acting on behalf of a Noteholder.


*Application for Compensation* means an executed application in the form of Appendix A to this part which a Noteholder, or the Fiscal Agent on behalf of a Noteholder, files with USAID pursuant to ยง 234.8.


*Borrower* means Ukraine.


*Business day* means any day other than a day on which banks in New York, NY are closed or authorized to be closed or a day which is observed as a federal holiday in Washington, DC, by the United States Government.


*Date of application* means the date on which an Application for Compensation is actually received by USAID pursuant to ยง 234.15.


*Defaulted Payment* means, as of any date and in respect of any Eligible Note, any Interest Amount and/or Principal Amount not paid when due.


*Eligible Note(s)* means [a] Note[s] meeting the eligibility criteria set out in ยง 234.4.


*Fiscal Agency Agreement* means the agreement among USAID, the Borrower and the Fiscal Agent pursuant to which the Fiscal Agent agrees to provide fiscal agency and trust services in respect of the Note[s], a copy of which Fiscal Agency Agreement shall be made available to Noteholders upon request to the Fiscal Agent.


*Fiscal agent* means the bank or trust company or its duly appointed successor under the Fiscal Agency Agreement which has been appointed by the Borrower with the consent of USAID to perform certain fiscal agency and trust services for specified Eligible Note[s] pursuant to the terms of the Fiscal Agency Agreement.


*Further guaranteed payments* means the amount of any loss suffered by a Noteholder by reason of the Borrower's failure to comply on a timely basis with any obligation it may have under an Eligible Note to indemnify and hold harmless a Noteholder from taxes or governmental charges or any expense arising out of taxes or any other governmental charges relating to the Eligible Note in the country of the Borrower.


*Guarantee* means the guarantee of USAID pursuant to this part 234 and the Support for the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-95).


*Guarantee payment date* means a Business Day not more than three (3) Business Days after the related Date of Application.


*Interest amount* means for any Eligible Note the amount of interest accrued on the Principal Amount of such Eligible Note at the applicable Interest Rate.


*Interest rate* means the interest rate borne by an Eligible Note.


*Loss of investment* means, in respect of any Eligible Note, an amount in Dollars equal to the total of the:


(1) Defaulted Payment unpaid as of the Date of Application,


(2) Further Guaranteed Payments unpaid as of the Date of Application, and


(3) Interest accrued and unpaid at the Interest Rate(s) specified in the Eligible Note(s) on the Defaulted Payment and Further Guaranteed Payments, in each case from the date of default with respect to such payment to and including the date on which full payment thereof is made to the Noteholder.


*Note[s]* means any debt securities issued by the Borrower.


*Noteholder* means the owner of an Eligible Note who is registered as such on the Note Register.


*Note Register* means the register of Eligible Notes required to be maintained by the Fiscal Agent.


*Person* means any legal person, including any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.


*Principal amount* means the principal amount of the Eligible Notes issued by the Borrower. For purposes of determining the principal amount of the Eligible Notes issued by the Borrower, the principal amount of each Eligible Note shall be the stated principal amount thereof.


*USAID* means the United States Agency for International Development or its successor.




