# ยง 63.11132   What definitions apply to this subpart?

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA), or in subparts A and BBBBBB of this part. For purposes of this subpart, definitions in this section supersede definitions in other parts or subparts.


*Dual-point vapor balance system* means a type of vapor balance system in which the storage tank is equipped with an entry port for a gasoline fill pipe and a separate exit port for a vapor connection.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kilopascals or greater, which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.


*Gasoline cargo tank* means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading or unloading gasoline, or which has loaded or unloaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.


*Gasoline dispensing facility (GDF)* means any stationary facility which dispenses gasoline into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle, motor vehicle engine, nonroad vehicle, or nonroad engine, including a nonroad vehicle or nonroad engine used solely for competition. These facilities include, but are not limited to, facilities that dispense gasoline into on- and off-road, street, or highway motor vehicles, lawn equipment, boats, test engines, landscaping equipment, generators, pumps, and other gasoline-fueled engines and equipment.


*Monthly throughput* means the total volume of gasoline that is loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during a month. Monthly throughput is calculated by summing the volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the current day, plus the total volume of gasoline loaded into, or dispensed from, all gasoline storage tanks at each GDF during the previous 364 days, and then dividing that sum by 12.


*Motor vehicle* means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway.


*Nonroad engine* means an internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) that is not used in a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or that is not subject to standards promulgated under section 7411 of this title or section 7521 of this title.


*Nonroad vehicle* means a vehicle that is powered by a nonroad engine, and that is not a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition.


*Submerged filling* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the filling of a gasoline storage tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the applicable distance specified in ยง 63.11117(b) from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline storage tanks is included in this definition.


*Vapor balance system* means a combination of pipes and hoses that create a closed system between the vapor spaces of an unloading gasoline cargo tank and a receiving storage tank such that vapors displaced from the storage tank are transferred to the gasoline cargo tank being unloaded.


*Vapor-tight* means equipment that allows no loss of vapors. Compliance with vapor-tight requirements can be determined by checking to ensure that the concentration at a potential leak source is not equal to or greater than 100 percent of the Lower Explosive Limit when measured with a combustible gas detector, calibrated with propane, at a distance of 1 inch from the source.


*Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank* means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in ยง 63.11092(f) of this part.



---

[N] [73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4183, Jan. 24, 2011]







