# ยง 47.1   Definitions.

(a) *Dentist* means a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine legally authorized to practice dental surgery or medical dentistry by a State (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).


(b) *Other health care professional* means an individual other than a physician or dentist who is licensed or otherwise authorized by a State to provide health care services (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so licensed or authorized).


(c) *Physician* means a doctor of medicine or osteopathy legally authorized to practice medicine or surgery by a State (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).


(d) *State* means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands and any other territories or possessions of the United States.


(e) *State Licensing Board* means, with respect to a physician, dentist or other health care practitioner in a State, the agency of the State which is primarily responsible for the licensing of the physician, dentist or practitioner to provide health care services.


(f) *Generally accepted standards of clinical practice* means reasonable competence in the clinical aspects of one's responsibilities, as well as the moral and ethical behavior necessary to carry out those responsibilities.


(g) *Separated licensed health care professional* means a licensed health care professional who is no longer on VA rolls, regardless of whether the individual left voluntarily or involuntarily and regardless of the reason why the individual left.


(h) *Currently employed licensed health care professional* means a licensed health care professional who is on VA rolls.


(i) *On VA rolls* means on VA rolls, regardless of the status of the professional, such as full-time, part-time, contract service, fee-basis, or without compensation.



---

[N] [58 FR 48455, Sept. 16, 1993, as amended at 63 FR 23665, Apr. 30, 1998]




