# ยง 21.7656   Other required reports.

(a) *Reports from reservists.* (1) A reservist enrolled full time in a program of education for a standard term, quarter, or semester must report without delay to VA: 


(i) A change in his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance if that change would result in less than full-time enrollment; 


(ii) Any change in his or her pursuit that would result in less than full-time enrollment; and 


(iii) Any interruption or termination of his or her attendance. 


(2) A reservist not described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must report without delay to VA: 


(i) Any change in his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance; 


(ii) Any change in his or her pursuit; and 


(iii) Any interruption or termination of his or her attendance. 


(b) *Interruptions, terminations or changes in hours of credit or attendance.* When a reservist interrupts or terminates his or her training for any reason, including unsatisfactory conduct or progress, or when he or she changes the number of hours of credit or attendance, the educational institution must report this fact to VA.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an educational institution must report without delay to VA each time a reservist: 


(i) Interrupts or terminates his or her training for any reason; or


(ii) Changes his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance. 


(2) An educational institution does not need to report a change in a reservist's hours of credit or attendance when: 


(i) The reservist is enrolled full time in a program of education for a standard term, quarter, or semester before the change; and


(ii) The reservist continues to be enrolled full time after the change. 


(3) If the change in status or change in number of credit hours or clock hours of attendance occurs on a day other than one indicated by paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section, the educational institution will initiate a report of the change in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the change occurs. 


(4) If the educational institution has certified the reservist's enrollment for more than one term, quarter or semester and the reservist interrupts his or her training at the end of a term, quarter or semester within the certified enrollment period, the educational institution shall report the change in status to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days of the last officially scheduled registration date for the next term, quarter or semester.


(5) If the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance occurs during the 30 days of a drop-add period, the educational institution must report the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days from the last date of the drop-add period or 60 days from the first day of the enrollment period, whichever occurs first.


(c) *Nonpunitive grades.* An educational institution may assign a nonpunitive grade for a course or subject in which the reservist is enrolled even though the reservist does not withdraw from the course or subject. When this occurs, the educational institution must report the assignment of the nonpunitive grade in time for VA to receive it before the earlier of the following dates is reached:


(1) 30 days from the date on which the educational institution assigns the grade, or


(2) 60 days from the last day of the enrollment period for which the nonpunitive grade is assigned.



---

[N] [53 FR 34740, Sept. 8, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 61101, Oct. 16, 2001]




