# § 982.619   Cooperative housing.

(a) *Assistance in cooperative housing.* This section applies to rental assistance for a cooperative member residing in cooperative housing. However, this section does not apply to: 


(1) Assistance for a cooperative member under the homeownership option pursuant to §§ 982.625 through 982.641; or 


(2) Rental assistance for a family that leases a cooperative housing unit from a cooperative member (such rental assistance is not a special housing type, and is subject to requirements in other subparts of this part 982). 


(b) *Rent to owner.* (1) The reasonable rent for a cooperative unit is determined in accordance with § 982.507. For cooperative housing, the rent to owner is the monthly carrying charge under the occupancy agreement/lease between the member and the cooperative.


(2) The carrying charge consists of the amount assessed to the member by the cooperative for occupancy of the housing. The carrying charge includes the member's share of the cooperative debt service, operating expenses, and necessary payments to cooperative reserve funds. However, the carrying charge does not include down-payments or other payments to purchase the cooperative unit, or to amortize a loan to the family for this purpose.


(3) Gross rent is the carrying charge plus any utility allowance.


(4) Adjustments are applied to the carrying charge as determined in accordance with this section.


(5) The occupancy agreement/lease and other appropriate documents must provide that the monthly carrying charge is subject to Section 8 limitations on rent to owner.


(c) *Housing assistance payment.* The amount of the housing assistance payment is determined in accordance with subpart K of this part.


(d) *Maintenance.* (1) During the term of the HAP contract between the PHA and the cooperative, the dwelling unit and premises must be maintained in accordance with the HQS. If the dwelling unit and premises are not maintained in accordance with the HQS, the PHA may exercise all available remedies, regardless of whether the family or the cooperative is responsible for such breach of the HQS. PHA remedies for breach of the HQS include recovery of overpayments, abatement or other reduction of housing assistance payments, termination of housing assistance payments and termination of the HAP contract. 


(2) The PHA may not make any housing assistance payments if the contract unit does not meet the HQS, unless any defect is corrected within the period specified by the PHA and the PHA verifies the correction. If a defect is life-threatening, the defect must be corrected within no more than 24 hours. For other defects, the defect must be corrected within the period specified by the PHA. 


(3) The family is responsible for a breach of the HQS that is caused by any of the following: 


(i) The family fails to perform any maintenance for which the family is responsible in accordance with the terms of the cooperative occupancy agreement between the cooperative member and the cooperative; 


(ii) The family fails to pay for any utilities that the cooperative is not required to pay for, but which are to be paid by the cooperative member; 


(iii) The family fails to provide and maintain any appliances that the cooperative is not required to provide, but which are to be provided by the cooperative member; or 


(iv) Any member of the household or guest damages the dwelling unit or premises (damages beyond ordinary wear and tear). 


(4) If the family has caused a breach of the HQS for which the family is responsible, the PHA must take prompt and vigorous action to enforce such family obligations. The PHA may terminate assistance for violation of family obligations in accordance with § 982.552. 


(5) Section 982.404 does not apply to assistance for cooperative housing under this section. 


(e) *Live-in aide.* (1) If approved by the PHA, a live-in aide may reside with the family to care for a person with disabilities. The PHA must approve a live-in aide if needed as a reasonable accommodation so that the program is readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities in accordance with 24 CFR part 8. See § 982.316 concerning occupancy by a live-in aide.


(2) If there is a live-in aide, the live-in aide must be counted in determining the family unit size.



---

[N] [63 FR 23865, Apr. 30, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 26651, May 14, 1999; 65 FR 55162, Sept. 12, 2000; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015]




