# § 26.5   Definitions.

*Affiliation* has the same meaning the term has in the Small Business Administration (SBA) regulations, 13 CFR part 121.


(1) Except as otherwise provided in 13 CFR part 121, concerns are affiliates of each other when, either directly or indirectly:


(i) One concern controls or has the power to control the other; or


(ii) A third party or parties controls or has the power to control both; or


(iii) An identity of interest between or among parties exists such that affiliation may be found.


(2) In determining whether affiliation exists, it is necessary to consider all appropriate factors, including common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships. Affiliates must be considered together in determining whether a concern meets small business size criteria and the statutory cap on the participation of firms in the DBE program.


*Alaska Native* means a citizen of the United States who is a person of one-fourth degree or more Alaskan Indian (including Tsimshian Indians not enrolled in the Metlakatla Indian Community), Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or a combination of those bloodlines. The term includes, in the absence of proof of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen whom a Native village or Native group regards as an Alaska Native if their father or mother is regarded as an Alaska Native.


*Alaska Native Corporation* (ANC) means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601, *et seq.*).


*Assets* mean all the property of a person available for paying debts or for distribution, including one's respective share of jointly held assets. This includes, but is not limited to, cash on hand and in banks, savings accounts, IRA or other retirement accounts, accounts receivable, life insurance, stocks and bonds, real estate, and personal property.


*Business, business concern or business enterprise* means an entity organized for profit with a place of business located in the United States, and which operates primarily within the United States or which makes a significant contribution to the United States economy through payment of taxes or use of American products, materials, or labor.


*Compliance* means that a recipient has correctly implemented the requirements of this part.


*Contingent Liability* means a liability that depends on the occurrence of a future and uncertain event. This includes, but is not limited to, guaranty for debts owed by the applicant concern, legal claims and judgments, and provisions for federal income tax.


*Contract* means a legally binding relationship obligating a seller to furnish supplies or services (including, but not limited to, construction and professional services) and the buyer to pay for them. For purposes of this part, a lease is considered to be a contract.


*Contractor* means one who participates, through a contract or subcontract (at any tier), in a DOT-assisted highway, transit, or airport program.


*Days* mean calendar days. In computing any period of time described in this part, the day from which the period begins to run is not counted, and when the last day of the period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period extends to the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Similarly, in circumstances where the recipient's offices are closed for all or part of the last day, the period extends to the next day on which the agency is open.


*Department* or *DOT* means the U.S. Department of Transportation, including the Office of the Secretary, the Departmental Office of Civil Rights, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).


*Disadvantaged Business Enterprise* or *DBE* means a for-profit small business concern—


(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more individuals who are both socially and economically disadvantaged; and


(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more of the socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who own it.


*DOT-assisted contract* means any contract between a recipient and a contractor (at any tier) funded in whole or in part with DOT financial assistance, including letters of credit or loan guarantees, except a contract solely for the purchase of land.


*FTA Tier I recipient* means an FTA recipient to whom this part applies that will award prime contracts (excluding transit vehicle purchases) the cumulative total value of which exceeds $670,000 in FTA funds in a Federal fiscal year.


*FTA Tier II recipient* means an FTA recipient to whom this part applies who will award prime contracts (excluding transit vehicle purchases) the cumulative total value of which does not exceed $670,000 in FTA funds in a Federal fiscal year.


*Good faith efforts* means efforts to achieve a DBE goal or other requirement of this part which, by their scope, intensity, and appropriateness to the objective, can reasonably be expected to fulfill the program requirement.


*Immediate family member* means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, and domestic partner and civil unions recognized under State law.


*Indian Tribe* or *Native American Tribe* means any federally or State-recognized Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group of Indians (Native Americans), or an ANC.


*Joint venture* means an association of a DBE firm and one or more other firms to carry out a single, for-profit business enterprise, for which the parties combine their property, capital, efforts, skills and knowledge, and in which the DBE is responsible for a distinct, clearly defined portion of the work of the contract and whose share in the capital contribution, control, management, risks, and profits of the joint venture are commensurate with its ownership interest.


*Liabilities* mean financial or pecuniary obligations. This includes, but is not limited to, accounts payable, notes payable to bank or others, installment accounts, mortgages on real estate, and unpaid taxes.


*Native Hawaiian* means any individual whose ancestors were natives, prior to 1778, of the area which now comprises the State of Hawaii.


*Native Hawaiian Organization* means any community service organization serving Native Hawaiians in the State of Hawaii which is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the State of Hawaii, is controlled by Native Hawaiians, and whose business activities will principally benefit such Native Hawaiians.


*Noncompliance* means that a recipient has not correctly implemented the requirements of this part.


*Notice of decision* or *NOD* means determination that denies a firm's application or decertifies a DBE.


*Notice of intent* or *NOI* means recipients letter informing a DBE of a suspension or proposed decertification.


*Operating Administration* or *OA* means any of the following parts of DOT: the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and Federal Transit Administration (FTA). The “Administrator” of an operating administration includes his or her designees.


*Personal net worth* or *PNW* means the net value of an individual's reportable assets and liabilities, per the calculation rules in § 26.68.


*Primary industry classification* means the most current North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) designation which best describes the primary business of a firm. The NAICS is described in the North American Industry Classification Manual—United States, which is available online on the U.S. Census Bureau website: *www.census.gov/naics/.*

*Primary recipient* means a recipient which receives DOT financial assistance and passes some or all of it on to another recipient.


*Principal place of business* means the business location where the individuals who manage the firm's day-to-day operations spend most working hours. If the offices from which management is directed and where the business records are kept are in different locations, the recipient will determine the principal place of business. The term does not include construction trailers or other temporary construction sites.


*Program* means any undertaking on a recipient's part to use DOT financial assistance, authorized by the laws to which this part applies.


*Race-conscious* measure or program is one that is focused specifically on assisting only DBEs, including women-owned DBEs.


*Race-neutral* measure or program is one that is, or can be, used to assist all small businesses. For the purposes of this part, *race-neutral* includes gender-neutrality.


*Recipient* means any entity, public or private, to which DOT financial assistance is extended, whether directly or through another recipient, through the programs of the FAA, FHWA, or FTA, or that has applied for such assistance.


*Secretary* means DOT's Secretary of Transportation or the Secretary's designee.


*Set-aside* means a contracting practice restricting eligibility for the competitive award of a contract solely to DBE firms.


*Small Business Administration* or *SBA* means the United States Small Business Administration.


*SBA certified firm* refers to firms that have a current, valid certification from or recognized by the SBA under the 8(a) BD or SDB programs. 


*Small business concern* means, with respect to firms seeking to participate as DBEs in DOT-assisted contracts, a small business concern as defined pursuant to section 3 of the Small Business Act and Small Business Administration regulations implementing it (13 CFR part 121) that also does not exceed the cap on average annual gross receipts specified in § 26.65(b).


*Socially and economically disadvantaged individual* means any individual who is a citizen (or lawfully admitted permanent resident) of the United States and who has been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of his or her identity as a member of a group and without regard to his or her individual qualities. The social disadvantage must stem from circumstances beyond the individual's control.


(1) Any individual who a recipient finds to be a socially and economically disadvantaged individual on a case-by-case basis. An individual must demonstrate that he or she has held himself or herself out, as a member of a designated group if you require it.


(2) Any individual in the following groups, members of which are rebuttably presumed to be socially and economically disadvantaged:


(i) “Black Americans,” which includes persons having origins in any of the Black racial groups of Africa;


(ii) “Hispanic Americans,” which includes persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, Central or South American, or other Spanish or Portuguese culture or origin, regardless of race;


(iii) “Native Americans,” which includes persons who are enrolled members of a federally or State recognized Indian tribe, Alaska Natives, or Native Hawaiians;


(iv) “Asian-Pacific Americans,” which includes persons whose origins are from Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Burma (Myanmar), Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Brunei, Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Northern Mariana Islands, Samoa, Macao, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, Nauru, Federated States of Micronesia, or Hong Kong;


(v) “Subcontinent Asian Americans,” which includes persons whose origins are from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal or Sri Lanka;


(vi) Women;


(vii) Any additional groups whose members are designated as socially and economically disadvantaged by the SBA, at such time as the SBA designation becomes effective.


(3) Being born in a particular country does not, standing alone, mean that a person is necessarily a member of one of the groups listed in this definition.


*Spouse* means a married person, including a person in a domestic partnership or a civil union recognized under State law.


*Transit vehicle manufacturer (TVM)* means any manufacturer whose primary business purpose is to manufacture vehicles built for mass transportation. Such vehicles include, but are not limited to buses, rail cars, trolleys, ferries, and vehicles manufactured specifically for paratransit purposes. Businesses that perform retrofitting or post-production alterations to vehicles so that such vehicles may be used for public transportation purposes are also considered TVMs. Businesses that manufacture, mass-produce, or distribute vehicles primarily for personal use are not considered TVMs.


*Tribally-owned concern* means any concern at least 51 percent owned by an Indian tribe as defined in this section.


*Unsworn declaration* means an unsworn statement, dated and in writing, subscribed as true under penalty of perjury.


*You* refers to a recipient, unless a statement in the text of this part or the context requires otherwise (i.e., ‘You must do XYZ’ means that recipients must do XYZ).



---

[N] [64 FR 5126, Feb. 2, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 34570, June 28, 1999; 68 FR 35553, June 16, 2003; 76 FR 5096, Jan. 28, 2011; 79 FR 59592, Oct. 2, 2014; 89 FR 24963, Apr. 9, 2024]




