# ยง 802.5   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms have the following meanings:


(a) *Agency* has the meaning given in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and 5 U.S.C. 552(f).


(b) *Appeal* means a request for a review of the agency's determination with regard to a fee waiver, category of requester, expedited processing, or denial in whole or in part of a request for access to a record or records.


(c) *Business information* means trade secrets or other commercial or financial information.


(d) *Business submitter* means any entity which provides business information to the Agency and which has a proprietary interest in the information.


(e) *Computer software* means tools by which records are created, stored, and retrieved. Normally, computer software, including source code, object code, and listings of source and object codes, regardless of medium, are not agency records. Proprietary (or copyrighted) software is not an agency record.


(f) *Confidential commercial information* means records provided to the government by a submitter that arguably contain material exempt from release under Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), because disclosure could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.


(g) *Duplication* refers to the process of making a copy of a record in order to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microform, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation (*e.g.,* magnetic tape or disk), among others.


(h) *Electronic records* mean those records and information which are created, stored, and retrievable by electronic means. This ordinarily does not include computer software, which is a tool by which to create, store, or retrieve electronic records.


(i) *Record* is defined pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3301.


(j) *Request* means any request for records made pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3).


(k) *Requester* means any person who makes a request for access to records.


(l) *Review* for fee purposes, refers to the process of examining records located in response to a commercial use request to determine whether any portion of any record located is permitted to be withheld. It also includes processing any records for disclosure; *e.g.,* doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release.


(m) *Search* includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within records. Searches may be done manually or by automated means.




