# § 1944.413   Grant approval.

(a) *Approval of grant.* Within 30 days of the grantee meeting the conditions of § 1944.411 of this subpart or, if applicable, signing exhibit D, the approving official will:


(1) Execute and distribute Form RD 1940-1 in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert (FMI).


(2) After the Finance Office acknowledges that funds are obligated, request an initial advance of funds on Form RD 440-57, “Acknowledgment of Obligated Funds/Check Request,” in accordance with the FMI. The amount of this request should cover the applicant's needs for the remainder of the month in which the grant is closed plus the next month. Subsequent advances will cover only a one-month period.


(b) *Cancellation of an approved grant.* An approved grant may be canceled before closing if the applicant is no longer eligible, the proposal is no longer feasible, or the applicant requests cancellation. Cancellation will be accomplished as follows:


(1) The District Director will prepare Form RD 1940-10, “Cancellation of U.S. Treasury Check and/or Obligation,” according to the FMI and send it to the State Director with the reasons for cancellation. If the State Director approves the request, Form RD 1940-10 will be returned to the District Office for processing in accordance with the FMI.


(2) The District Director will notify the applicant of the cancellation and the right to appeal under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. If the applicant requested the cancellation, no appeal rights are provided, but the applicant will still be notified of the cancellation.


(c) *Disapproval of grant.* If a grant is disapproved after the docket has been developed, the approving official will state the reason on the original Form RD 1940-1, or in a memorandum to the District Director. The District Director will notify the applicant in writing of the disapproval and the reason for disapproval. Also, the notification will inform the applicant of its appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter.




