# § 63.11237   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in § 63.2 (the General Provisions), and in this section as follows:


*10-day rolling average* means the arithmetic mean of all valid hours of data from 10 successive operating days, except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.


*30-day rolling average* means the arithmetic mean of all valid hours of data from 30 successive operating days, except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.


*Annual capacity factor* means the ratio between the actual heat input to a boiler from the fuels burned during a calendar year and the potential heat input to the boiler had it been operated for 8,760 hours during a year at the maximum steady state design heat input capacity.


*Annual heat input* means the heat input for the 12 months preceding the compliance demonstration.


*Bag leak detection system* means a group of instruments that are capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (*i.e.,* baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on electrodynamic, triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.


*Biodiesel* means a mono-alkyl ester derived from biomass and conforming to ASTM D6751-11b, Standard Specification for Biodiesel Fuel Blend Stock (B100) for Middle Distillate Fuels (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


*Biomass* means any biomass-based solid fuel that is not a solid waste. This includes, but is not limited to, wood residue and wood products (e.g., trees, tree stumps, tree limbs, bark, lumber, sawdust, sander dust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings, and shavings); animal manure, including litter and other bedding materials; vegetative agricultural and silvicultural materials, such as logging residues (slash), nut and grain hulls and chaff (*e.g.,* almond, walnut, peanut, rice, and wheat), bagasse, orchard prunings, corn stalks, coffee bean hulls and grounds. This definition of biomass is not intended to suggest that these materials are or are not solid waste.


*Biomass subcategory* includes any boiler that burns any biomass and is not in the coal subcategory.


*Boiler* means an enclosed device using controlled flame combustion in which water is heated to recover thermal energy in the form of steam and/or hot water. Controlled flame combustion refers to a steady-state, or near steady-state, process wherein fuel and/or oxidizer feed rates are controlled. A device combusting solid waste, as defined in § 241.3 of this chapter, is not a boiler unless the device is exempt from the definition of a solid waste incineration unit as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act. Waste heat boilers, process heaters, and autoclaves are excluded from the definition of *Boiler.*

*Boiler system* means the boiler and associated components, such as, feedwater systems, combustion air systems, fuel systems (including burners), blowdown systems, combustion control systems, steam systems, and condensate return systems, directly connected to and serving the energy use systems.


*Calendar year* means the period between January 1 and December 31, inclusive, for a given year.


*Coal* means all solid fuels classifiable as anthracite, bituminous, sub-bituminous, or lignite by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), coal refuse, and petroleum coke. For the purposes of this subpart, this definition of “coal” includes synthetic fuels derived from coal including, but not limited to, solvent-refined coal, coal-oil mixtures, and coal-water mixtures. Coal derived gases are excluded from this definition.


*Coal subcategory* includes any boiler that burns any solid fossil fuel and no more than 15 percent biomass on an annual heat input basis.


*Commercial boiler* means a boiler used in commercial establishments such as hotels, restaurants, and laundries to provide electricity, steam, and/or hot water.


*Common stack* means the exhaust of emissions from two or more affected units through a single flue. Affected units with a common stack may each have separate air pollution control systems located before the common stack, or may have a single air pollution control system located after the exhausts come together in a single flue.


*Daily block average* means the arithmetic mean of all valid emission concentrations or parameter levels recorded when a unit is operating measured over the 24-hour period from 12 a.m. (midnight) to 12 a.m. (midnight), except for periods of startup and shutdown and periods when the unit is not operating.


*Deviation* (1) Means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(i) Fails to meet any applicable requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or


(ii) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


(2) A deviation is not always a violation.


*Distillate oil* means fuel oils that contain 0.05 weight percent nitrogen or less and comply with the specifications for fuel oil numbers 1 and 2, as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D396 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or diesel fuel oil numbers 1 and 2, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D975 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), kerosene, and biodiesel as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D6751-11b (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


*Dry scrubber* means an add-on air pollution control system that injects dry alkaline sorbent (dry injection) or sprays an alkaline sorbent (spray dryer) to react with and neutralize acid gas in the exhaust stream forming a dry powder material. Sorbent injection systems used as control devices in fluidized bed boilers are included in this definition. A dry scrubber is a dry control system.


*Electric boiler* means a boiler in which electric heating serves as the source of heat. Electric boilers that burn gaseous or liquid fuel during periods of electrical power curtailment or failure are included in this definition.


*Electric utility steam generating unit (EGU)* means a fossil fuel-fired combustion unit of more than 25 megawatts that serves a generator that produces electricity for sale. A fossil fuel-fired unit that cogenerates steam and electricity and supplies more than one-third of its potential electric output capacity and more than 25 megawatts electrical output to any utility power distribution system for sale is considered an electric utility steam generating unit. To be “capable of combusting” fossil fuels, an EGU would need to have these fuels allowed in their operating permits and have the appropriate fuel handling facilities on-site or otherwise available (*e.g.,* coal handling equipment, including coal storage area, belts and conveyers, pulverizers, etc.; oil storage facilities). In addition, fossil fuel-fired EGU means any EGU that fired fossil fuel for more than 10.0 percent of the average annual heat input in any 3 consecutive calendar years or for more than 15.0 percent of the annual heat input during any one calendar year after April 16, 2015.


*Electrostatic precipitator (ESP)* means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by charging the particles using an electrostatic field, collecting the particles using a grounded collecting surface, and transporting the particles into a hopper. An electrostatic precipitator is usually a dry control system.


*Energy assessment* means the following for the emission units covered by this subpart:


(1) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with less than 0.3 trillion Btu per year (TBtu/year) heat input capacity will be 8 on-site technical labor hours in length maximum, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 50 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (*e.g.,* steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities, within the limit of performing an 8-hour energy assessment.


(2) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with 0.3 to 1.0 TBtu/year heat input capacity will be 24 on-site technical labor hours in length maximum, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 33 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (*e.g.,* steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities, within the limit of performing a 24-hour energy assessment.


(3) The energy assessment for facilities with affected boilers with greater than 1.0 TBtu/year heat input capacity will be up to 24 on-site technical labor hours in length for the first TBtu/year plus 8 on-site technical labor hours for every additional 1.0 TBtu/year not to exceed 160 on-site technical hours, but may be longer at the discretion of the owner or operator of the affected source. The boiler system(s) and any on-site energy use system(s) accounting for at least 20 percent of the affected boiler(s) energy (*e.g.,* steam, hot water, or electricity) production, as applicable, will be evaluated to identify energy savings opportunities.


(4) The on-site energy use system(s) serving as the basis for the percent of affected boiler(s) energy production, as applicable, in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this definition may be segmented by production area or energy use area as most logical and applicable to the specific facility being assessed (*e.g.,* product X manufacturing area; product Y drying area; Building Z).


*Energy management program* means a program that includes a set of practices and procedures designed to manage energy use that are demonstrated by the facility's energy policies, a facility energy manager and other staffing responsibilities, energy performance measurement and tracking methods, an energy saving goal, action plans, operating procedures, internal reporting requirements, and periodic review intervals used at the facility. Facilities may establish their program through energy management systems compatible with ISO 50001.


*Energy use system* (1) Includes the following systems located on the site of the affected boiler that use energy provided by the boiler:


(i) Process heating; compressed air systems; machine drive (motors, pumps, fans); process cooling; facility heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems; hot water systems; building envelop; and lighting; or


(ii) Other systems that use steam, hot water, process heat, or electricity, provided by the affected boiler.


(2) Energy use systems are only those systems using energy clearly produced by affected boilers.


*Equivalent* means the following only as this term is used in Table 5 to this subpart:


(1) An equivalent sample collection procedure means a published voluntary consensus standard or practice (VCS) or


EPA method that includes collection of a minimum of three composite fuel samples, with each composite consisting of a minimum of three increments collected at approximately equal intervals over the test period.


(2) An equivalent sample compositing procedure means a published VCS or EPA method to systematically mix and obtain a representative subsample (part) of the composite sample.


(3) An equivalent sample preparation procedure means a published VCS or EPA method that: Clearly states that the standard, practice or method is appropriate for the pollutant and the fuel matrix; or is cited as an appropriate sample preparation standard, practice or method for the pollutant in the chosen VCS or EPA determinative or analytical method.


(4) An equivalent procedure for determining heat content means a published VCS or EPA method to obtain gross calorific (or higher heating) value.


(5) An equivalent procedure for determining fuel moisture content means a published VCS or EPA method to obtain moisture content. If the sample analysis plan calls for determining mercury using an aliquot of the dried sample, then the drying temperature must be modified to prevent vaporizing this metal. On the other hand, if metals analysis is done on an “as received” basis, a separate aliquot can be dried to determine moisture content and the mercury concentration mathematically adjusted to a dry basis.


(6) An equivalent mercury determinative or analytical procedure means a published VCS or EPA method that clearly states that the standard, practice, or method is appropriate for mercury and the fuel matrix and has a published detection limit equal or lower than the methods listed in Table 5 to this subpart for the same purpose.


*Fabric filter* means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse. A fabric filter is a dry control system.


*Federally enforceable* means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the EPA Administrator, including, but not limited to, the requirements of 40 CFR parts 60, 61, 63, and 65, requirements within any applicable state implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 40 CFR 51.24.


*Fluidized bed boiler* means a boiler utilizing a fluidized bed combustion process that is not a pulverized coal boiler.


*Fluidized bed combustion* means a process where a fuel is burned in a bed of granulated particles, which are maintained in a mobile suspension by the forward flow of air and combustion products.


*Fossil fuel* means natural gas, oil, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such material.


*Fuel type* means each category of fuels that share a common name or classification. Examples include, but are not limited to, bituminous coal, sub-bituminous coal, lignite, anthracite, biomass, distillate oil, residual oil. Individual fuel types received from different suppliers are not considered new fuel types.


*Gaseous fuels* includes, but is not limited to, natural gas, process gas, landfill gas, coal derived gas, refinery gas, hydrogen, and biogas.


*Gas-fired boiler* includes any boiler that burns gaseous fuels not combined with any solid fuels and burns liquid fuel only during periods of gas curtailment, gas supply interruption, startups, or for periodic testing, maintenance, or operator training on liquid fuel. Periodic testing, maintenance, or operator training on liquid fuel shall not exceed a combined total of 48 hours during any calendar year.


*Heat input* means heat derived from combustion of fuel in a boiler and does not include the heat input from preheated combustion air, recirculated flue gases, returned condensate, or exhaust gases from other sources such as gas turbines, internal combustion engines, kilns.


*Hot water heater* means a closed vessel with a capacity of no more than 120 U.S. gallons in which water is heated by combustion of gaseous, liquid, or biomass fuel and hot water is withdrawn for use external to the vessel. Hot water boilers (*i.e.,* not generating steam) combusting gaseous, liquid, or biomass fuel with a heat input capacity of less than 1.6 million Btu per hour are included in this definition. The 120 U.S. gallon capacity threshold to be considered a hot water heater is independent of the 1.6 million Btu per hour heat input capacity threshold for hot water boilers. Hot water heater also means a tankless unit that provides on-demand hot water.


*Hourly average* means the arithmetic average of at least four CMS data values representing the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed.


*Industrial boiler* means a boiler used in manufacturing, processing, mining, and refining or any other industry to provide steam, hot water, and/or electricity.


*Institutional boiler* means a boiler used in institutional establishments such as, but not limited to, medical centers, nursing homes, research centers, institutions of higher education, elementary and secondary schools, libraries, religious establishments, and governmental buildings to provide electricity, steam, and/or hot water.


*Limited-use boiler* means any boiler that burns any amount of solid or liquid fuels and has a federally enforceable annual capacity factor of no more than 10 percent.


*Liquid fuel* includes, but is not limited to, distillate oil, residual oil, any form of liquid fuel derived from petroleum, used oil meeting the specification in 40 CFR 279.11, liquid biofuels, biodiesel, and vegetable oil.


*Load fraction* means the actual heat input of a boiler divided by heat input during the performance test that established the minimum sorbent injection rate or minimum activated carbon injection rate, expressed as a fraction (*e.g.,* for 50 percent load the load fraction is 0.5). For boilers that co-fire natural gas with a solid or liquid fuel, the load fraction is determined by the actual heat input of the solid or liquid fuel divided by heat input of the solid or liquid fuel fired during the performance test (*e.g.,* if the performance test was conducted at 100 percent solid fuel firing, for 100 percent load firing 50 percent solid fuel and 50 percent natural gas, the load fraction is 0.5).


*Minimum activated carbon injection rate* means load fraction multiplied by the lowest hourly average activated carbon injection rate measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.


*Minimum oxygen level* means the lowest hourly average oxygen level measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable carbon monoxide emission limit.


*Minimum scrubber liquid flow rate* means the lowest hourly average scrubber liquid flow rate (*e.g.,* to the particulate matter scrubber) measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.


*Minimum scrubber pressure drop* means the lowest hourly average scrubber pressure drop measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.


*Minimum sorbent injection rate* means:


(1) The load fraction multiplied by the lowest hourly average sorbent injection rate for each sorbent measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits; or


(2) For fluidized bed combustion, the lowest average ratio of sorbent to sulfur measured during the most recent performance test.


*Minimum total secondary electric power* means the lowest hourly average total secondary electric power determined from the values of secondary voltage and secondary current to the electrostatic precipitator measured according to Table 6 to this subpart during the most recent performance stack test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits.


*Natural gas* means:


(1) A naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and nonhydrocarbon gases found in geologic formations beneath the earth's surface, of which the principal constituent is methane; or


(2) Liquefied petroleum gas, as defined by the American Society for Testing and Materials in ASTM D1835 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14); or


(3) A mixture of hydrocarbons that maintains a gaseous state at ISO conditions (*i.e.,* a temperature of 288 Kelvin, a relative humidity of 60 percent, and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals). Additionally, natural gas must either be composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or have a gross calorific value between 35 and 41 megajoules (MJ) per dry standard cubic meter (950 and 1,100 Btu per dry standard cubic foot); or


(4) Propane or propane-derived synthetic natural gas. Propane means a colorless gas derived from petroleum and natural gas, with the molecular structure C_3_H_8_.


*Oil subcategory* includes any boiler that burns any liquid fuel and is not in either the biomass or coal subcategories. Gas-fired boilers that burn liquid fuel only during periods of gas curtailment, gas supply interruptions, startups, or for periodic testing are not included in this definition. Periodic testing on liquid fuel shall not exceed a combined total of 48 hours during any calendar year.


*Opacity* means the degree to which emissions reduce the transmission of light and obscure the view of an object in the background.


*Operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the boiler unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted for the entire 24-hour period.


*Oxygen analyzer system* means all equipment required to determine the oxygen content of a gas stream and used to monitor oxygen in the boiler flue gas, boiler firebox, or other appropriate intermediate location. This definition includes oxygen trim systems.


*Oxygen trim system* means a system of monitors that is used to maintain excess air at the desired level in a combustion device over its operating load range. A typical system consists of a flue gas oxygen and/or carbon monoxide monitor that automatically provides a feedback signal to the combustion air controller or draft controller.


*Particulate matter (PM)* means any finely divided solid or liquid material, other than uncombined water, as measured by the test methods specified under this subpart, or an approved alternative method.


*Performance testing* means the collection of data resulting from the execution of a test method used (either by stack testing or fuel analysis) to demonstrate compliance with a relevant emission standard.


*Period of gas curtailment or supply interruption* means a period of time during which the supply of gaseous fuel to an affected boiler is restricted or halted for reasons beyond the control of the facility. The act of entering into a contractual agreement with a supplier of natural gas established for curtailment purposes does not constitute a reason that is under the control of a facility for the purposes of this definition. An increase in the cost or unit price of natural gas due to normal market fluctuations not during periods of supplier delivery restriction does not constitute a period of natural gas curtailment or supply interruption. On-site gaseous fuel system emergencies or equipment failures qualify as periods of supply interruption when the emergency or failure is beyond the control of the facility.


*Process heater* means an enclosed device using controlled flame, and the unit's primary purpose is to transfer heat indirectly to a process material (liquid, gas, or solid) or to a heat transfer material (e.g., glycol or a mixture of glycol and water) for use in a process unit, instead of generating steam. Process heaters are devices in which the combustion gases do not come into direct contact with process materials. Process heaters include units that heat water/water mixtures for pool heating, sidewalk heating, cooling tower water heating, power washing, or oil heating.


*Qualified energy assessor* means:


(1) Someone who has demonstrated capabilities to evaluate energy savings opportunities for steam generation and major energy using systems, including, but not limited to:


(i) Boiler combustion management.


(ii) Boiler thermal energy recovery, including


(A) Conventional feed water economizer,


(B) Conventional combustion air preheater, and


(C) Condensing economizer.


(iii) Boiler blowdown thermal energy recovery.


(iv) Primary energy resource selection, including


(A) Fuel (primary energy source) switching, and


(B) Applied steam energy versus direct-fired energy versus electricity.


(v) Insulation issues.


(vi) Steam trap and steam leak management.


(vii) Condensate recovery.


(viii) Steam end-use management.


(2) Capabilities and knowledge includes, but is not limited to:


(i) Background, experience, and recognized abilities to perform the assessment activities, data analysis, and report preparation.


(ii) Familiarity with operating and maintenance practices for steam or process heating systems.


(iii) Additional potential steam system improvement opportunities including improving steam turbine operations and reducing steam demand.


(iv) Additional process heating system opportunities including effective utilization of waste heat and use of proper process heating methods.


(v) Boiler-steam turbine cogeneration systems.


(vi) Industry specific steam end-use systems.


*Regulated gas stream* means an offgas stream that is routed to a boiler for the purpose of achieving compliance with a standard under another subpart of this part or part 60, part 61, or part 65 of this chapter.


*Residential boiler* means a boiler used to provide heat and/or hot water and/or as part of a residential combined heat and power system. This definition includes boilers located at an institutional facility (*e.g.,* university campus, military base, church grounds) or commercial/industrial facility (*e.g.,* farm) used primarily to provide heat and/or hot water for:


(1) A dwelling containing four or fewer families, or


(2) A single unit residence dwelling that has since been converted or subdivided into condominiums or apartments.


*Residual oil* means crude oil, fuel oil that does not comply with the specifications under the definition of distillate oil, and all fuel oil numbers 4, 5, and 6, as defined by the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D396-10 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14(b)).


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in § 70.2.


*Seasonal boiler* means a boiler that undergoes a shutdown for a period of at least 7 consecutive months (or 210 consecutive days) each 12-month period due to seasonal conditions, except for periodic testing. Periodic testing shall not exceed a combined total of 15 days during the 7-month shutdown. This definition only applies to boilers that would otherwise be included in the biomass subcategory or the oil subcategory.


*Shutdown* means the period in which cessation of operation of a boiler is initiated for any purpose. Shutdown begins when the boiler no longer supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, or when no fuel is being fed to the boiler, whichever is earlier. Shutdown ends when the boiler no longer supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, and no fuel is being combusted in the boiler.


*Solid fossil fuel* includes, but is not limited to, coal, coke, petroleum coke, and tire-derived fuel.


*Solid fuel* means any solid fossil fuel or biomass or bio-based solid fuel.


*Startup* means:


(1) Either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating and/or producing electricity, or for any other purpose, or the firing of fuel in a boiler after a shutdown event for any purpose. Startup ends when any of the useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) from the boiler is supplied for heating and/or producing electricity, or for any other purpose, or


(2) The period in which operation of a boiler is initiated for any purpose. Startup begins with either the first-ever firing of fuel in a boiler for the purpose of supplying useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling or process purposes or producing electricity, or the firing of fuel in a boiler for any purpose after a shutdown event. Startup ends 4 hours after when the boiler supplies useful thermal energy (such as steam or hot water) for heating, cooling, or process purposes or generates electricity, whichever is earlier.


*Temporary boiler* means any gaseous or liquid fuel boiler that is designed to, and is capable of, being carried or moved from one location to another by means of, for example, wheels, skids, carrying handles, dollies, trailers, or platforms. A boiler is not a temporary boiler if any one of the following conditions exists:


(1) The equipment is attached to a foundation.


(2) The boiler or a replacement remains at a location within the facility and performs the same or similar function for more than 12 consecutive months, unless the regulatory agency approves an extension. An extension may be granted by the regulating agency upon petition by the owner or operator of a unit specifying the basis for such a request. Any temporary boiler that replaces a temporary boiler at a location within the facility and performs the same or similar function will be included in calculating the consecutive time period unless there is a gap in operation of 12 months or more.


(3) The equipment is located at a seasonal facility and operates during the full annual operating period of the seasonal facility, remains at the facility for at least 2 years, and operates at that facility for at least 3 months each year.


(4) The equipment is moved from one location to another within the facility but continues to perform the same or similar function and serve the same electricity, steam, and/or hot water system in an attempt to circumvent the residence time requirements of this definition.


*Tune-up* means adjustments made to a boiler in accordance with the procedures outlined in § 63.11223(b).


*Ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel* means a distillate oil that has less than or equal to 15 parts per million (ppm) sulfur.


*Useful thermal energy* means energy (*i.e.,* steam or hot water) that meets the minimum operating temperature, flow, and/or pressure required by any energy use system that uses energy provided by the affected boiler.


*Vegetable oil* means oils extracted from vegetation.


*Voluntary Consensus Standards (VCS)* mean technical standards (*e.g.,* materials specifications, test methods, sampling procedures, business practices) developed or adopted by one or more voluntary consensus bodies. EPA/Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, by precedent, has only used VCS that are written in English. Examples of VCS bodies are: American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373, *http://www.astm.org*), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763, *http://www.asme.org),* International Standards Organization (ISO 1, ch. de la Voie-Creuse, Case postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, +41 22 749 01 11, *http://www.iso.org/iso/home.htm*), Standards Australia (AS Level 10, The Exchange Centre, 20 Bridge Street, Sydney, GPO Box 476, Sydney NSW 2001, +61 2 9237 6171 *http://www.standards.org.au*), British Standards Institution (BSI, 389 Chiswick High Road, London, W4 4AL, United Kingdom, +44 (0)20 8996 9001, *http://www.bsigroup.com*), Canadian Standards Association (CSA, 5060 Spectrum Way, Suite 100, Mississauga, Ontario L4W 5N6, Canada, 800-463-6727, *http://www.csa.ca*), European Committee for Standardization (CEN CENELEC Management Centre Avenue Marnix 17 B-1000 Brussels, Belgium +32 2 550 08 11, *http://www.cen.eu/cen*), and German Engineering Standards (VDI Guidelines Department, P.O. Box 10 11 39 40002, Duesseldorf, Germany, +49 211 6214-230, *http://www.vdi.eu*). The types of standards that are not considered VCS are standards developed by: the United States, *e.g.,* California Air Resources Board (CARB) and Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ); industry groups, such as American Petroleum Institute (API), Gas Processors Association (GPA), and Gas Research Institute (GRI); and other branches of the U.S. Government, *e.g.,* Department of Defense (DOD) and Department of Transportation (DOT). This does not preclude EPA from using standards developed by groups that are not VCS bodies within their rule. When this occurs, EPA has done searches and reviews for VCS equivalent to these non-EPA methods.


*Waste heat boiler* means a device that recovers normally unused energy (*i.e.,* hot exhaust gas) and converts it to usable heat. Waste heat boilers are also referred to as heat recovery steam generators. Waste heat boilers are heat exchangers generating steam from incoming hot exhaust gas from an industrial (*e.g.,* thermal oxidizer, kiln, furnace) or power (*e.g.,* combustion turbine, engine) equipment. Duct burners are sometimes used to increase the temperature of the incoming hot exhaust gas.


*Wet scrubber* means any add-on air pollution control device that mixes an aqueous stream or slurry with the exhaust gases from a boiler to control emissions of particulate matter or to absorb and neutralize acid gases, such as hydrogen chloride. A wet scrubber creates an aqueous stream or slurry as a byproduct of the emissions control process.


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, which is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the Clean Air Act.



---

[N] [76 FR 15591, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7513, Feb. 1, 2013; 81 FR 63128, Sept. 14, 2016]







