# § 4010.9   Financial information.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in this section, each filer is required to provide, in accordance with the instructions on PBGC's website, *http://www.pbgc.gov*, the following financial information for each member of the filer's controlled group (other than an exempt entity)—


(1) Audited financial statements for the fiscal year ending within the information year (including balance sheets, income statements, cash flow statements, and notes to the financial statements);


(2) If audited financial statements are not available by the date specified in § 4010.10(a), unaudited financial statements for the fiscal year ending within the information year; or


(3) If neither audited nor unaudited financial statements are available by the date specified in § 4010.10(a), copies of federal tax returns for the tax year ending within the information year.


(b) *Consolidated financial statements.* If the financial information of a controlled group member is combined with the information of other group members in consolidated financial statements, a filer may provide the following financial information in lieu of the information required in paragraph (a) of this section—


(1) The audited consolidated financial statements for the controlled group for the filer's information year or, if the audited consolidated financial statements are not available by the date specified in § 4010.10(a), unaudited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ending within the information year; and


(2) If the ultimate parent of the controlled group is a foreign entity, financial information on the U.S. entities (other than an exempt entity) that are members of the controlled group. The information required by this paragraph (b)(2) may be provided in the form of consolidated financial statements if the financial information of each controlled group member that is a U.S. entity is combined with the information of other group members that are U.S. entities. Otherwise, for each U.S. entity that is a controlled group member, provide the financial information required in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Subsequent submissions.* If unaudited financial statements are submitted as provided in paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(1) of this section, audited financial statements must thereafter be filed within 15 days after they are prepared, if they are prepared. If federal tax returns are submitted as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, audited and unaudited financial statements, if prepared must thereafter be filed within 15 days after they are prepared.


(d) *Submission of public information.* If any of the financial information required by paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section is publicly available, the filer, in lieu of submitting such information to PBGC, may include a statement with the other information that is submitted to PBGC indicating when such financial information was made available to the public and where PBGC may obtain it (including the exact URL for the web page where the financial information is located). For example, if the controlled group member has filed audited financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it need not file the financial statements with PBGC but instead can identify the SEC filing and the exact URL for the web page where the filing can be retrieved as part of its submission under this part.


(e) *Inclusion of information about non-filers and exempt entities.* Consolidated financial statements provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section may include financial information of persons who are not controlled group members (*e.g.,* joint ventures) or are exempt entities.



---

[N] [61 FR 34022, July 1, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 11545, Mar. 9, 2005; 74 FR 11034, Mar. 16, 2009; 85 FR 6060, Feb. 4, 2020]




