# § 1292.5   Community Investment Cash Advance Programs.

(a) *In general.* (1) Each Bank shall offer an AHP in accordance with part 1291 of this chapter.


(2) Each Bank shall offer a CIP to provide financing for housing projects and for eligible targeted community lending at the appropriate targeted income levels.


(3) Each Bank may offer RDF programs or UDF programs, or both, for targeted community lending using the targeted beneficiaries or targeted income levels specified in § 1292.1 of this part, without prior FHFA approval.


(4) Each Bank may offer CICA programs for targeted community lending using targeted beneficiaries and targeted income levels other than those specified in § 1292.1 of this part, established by the Bank with the prior approval of FHFA.


(b) *Mixed-use projects.* (1) For projects funded under CICA programs other than CIP, involving a combination of housing projects and economic development projects, only the economic development components of the project must meet the appropriate targeted income level for the respective CICA program.


(2) For projects funded under CIP, both the housing and economic development components of the project must meet the appropriate targeted income levels.


(c) *Refinancing.* CICA funding other than AHP may be used to refinance economic development projects and housing projects, provided that any equity proceeds of the refinancing of rental housing and manufactured housing parks are used to rehabilitate the projects or to preserve affordability for current residents.


(d) *Pricing and Availability of advances*—(1) *Advances to members.* For CICA programs other than AHP and CIP, a Bank shall price advances to members as provided in § 1266.5 of this chapter, and may price such advances at rates below the price of advances of similar amounts, maturities and terms made pursuant to section 10(a) of the Bank Act. (12 U.S.C. 1430(a)).


(2) *Pricing of CIP advances.* The price of advances made under CIP shall not exceed the Bank's cost of issuing consolidated obligations of comparable maturity, taking into account reasonable administrative costs.


(3) *Pricing of AHP advances.* A Bank shall price advances made under AHP in accordance with parts 1266 and 1291 of this chapter.


(4) *Advances to housing associate borrowers.* (i) A Bank may offer advances under CICA programs to housing associate borrowers at the Bank's option, except for AHP and CIP, which are available only to members.


(ii) A Bank shall price advances to housing associate borrowers as provided in § 1266.17 of this chapter, and may price such advances at rates below the price of advances of similar amounts, maturities and terms made pursuant to section 10b of the Bank Act. (12 U.S.C. 1430b).


(5) *Pricing pass-through.* A Bank may require that borrowers receiving advances made under CICA programs pass through the benefit of any price reduction from regular advance pricing to their borrowers.


(6) *Discount Fund.* (i) A Bank may establish a Discount Fund which the Bank may use to reduce the price of CIP or other advances made under CICA programs below the advance prices provided for by this part.


(ii) Price reductions made through the Discount Fund shall be made in accordance with a fair distribution scheme.




