# ยง 390.11   FSIS systems of records exempt from the Privacy Act.

(a) USDA/FSIS-0005, AssuranceNet system of records, is exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d)(1)-(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G)-(I), and (f) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, to the extent it contains investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:


(1) From subsection (c)(3) because the release of the disclosure accounting would permit the subject of an investigation to obtain valuable information concerning the nature of that investigation. This would permit record subjects to impede the investigation, *e.g.,* destroy evidence, intimidate potential witnesses, or flee the area to avoid inquiries or apprehension by law enforcement personnel.


(2) From subsection (d)(1) because the records contained in this system relate to official Federal investigations and matters of law enforcement. Individual access to these records might compromise ongoing or impending investigations, reveal confidential informants, or constitute unwarranted invasions of the personal privacy of third parties who are involved in a certain investigation.


(3) From section (d)(2) because amendment of the records would interfere with ongoing law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.


(4) From subsections (d)(3) and (4) because these subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from subsections (d)(1) and (2).


(5) From subsection (e)(1) because it is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory information contained in this system is accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads. Moreover, it would impede the specific investigative process if it were necessary to assure the relevance, accuracy, timeliness, and completeness of all information obtained.


(6) From subsections (e)(4)(G) and (H) since an exemption being claimed for subsection (d) makes these subsections inapplicable.


(7) From subsection (e)(4)(I) because the categories of sources of the records in this system have been published in the _Federal Register_ in broad generic terms in the belief that this is all that subsection (e)(4)(I) requires. In the event, however, that subsection (e)(4)(I) should be interpreted to require more detail as to the identity of sources of the records in the system, exemption from this provision is necessary in order to protect the confidentiality of the sources of enforcement information and of witnesses and informants.


(8) From subsection (f) to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 12747, Feb. 20, 2024]




