# ยง 511.25   Summary decision and order.

(a) *Motion.* Any party may move, with a supporting memorandum, for a Summary Decision and Order in its favor upon all or any of the issues in controversy. Complaint Counsel may so move at any time after thirty (30) days following issuance of a complaint, and any other party may so move at any time after issuance of a complaint. Any such motion by any party shall be filed at least twenty (20) days before the date fixed for the adjudicatory hearing.


(b) *Response to motion.* Any other party may, within ten (10) days after service of the motion, file a response thereto with a supporting memorandum.


(c) *Grounds.* A Summary Decision and Order shall be granted if the pleadings and any testimony upon oral examination, answers to interrogatories, admissions, and/or affidavits show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a Summary Decision and Order as a matter of law.


(d) *Legal effect.* A Summary Decision and Order upon all the issues being adjudicated shall constitute the Initial Decision of the Presiding Officer, and may be appealed to the Administrator in accordance with ยง 511.53. A Summary Decision, interlocutory in character, may be rendered on fewer than all issues and may not be appealed prior to issuance of the Initial Decision, except in accordance with ยง 511.24.


(e) *Case not fully adjudicated on motion.* A Summary Decision and Order that does not dispose of the whole case shall include a statement of those material facts as to which there is no substantial controversy, and of those material facts that are actually and in good faith controverted. The Summary Order shall direct such further proceedings as are just.




