# ยง 3171.14   Valid Period of Approved APD.

(a) For APDs approved after June 22, 2024, an APD approval is valid for 3 years from the date that it is approved, or until lease expiration, whichever occurs first.


(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if an APD approval expires by reason other than lease expiration, the APD approval shall remain valid if the operator or lessee:


(1) Has drilled the well to the approximate total measured depth in the approved APD, including wells drilled to the approximate total measured depth and not yet completed;


(2) Is drilling the well with a rig capable of drilling the well to the proposed total measured depth in the approved APD; or


(3) Has set the surface casing for the well and has submitted a plan, approved by the BLM prior to expiration of the APD approval, for continuously drilling the well to reach the proposed total measured depth in the approved APD. The plan must include the timeframe for continuously drilling and completing the well and any extenuating circumstances that may delay the continuous drilling and completion of the well.


(c) If, upon expiration of the approved APD, the operator created surface disturbance or began drilling the well under the approved APD, the operator or lessee must either comply with all applicable plugging, abandonment, and reclamation requirements or submit a new APD covering the existing disturbance.


(d) The operator is responsible for reclaiming any surface disturbance that resulted from its actions, even if a well was not drilled. Earthwork for reclamation must be completed within 6 months of APD expiration (weather permitting).


(e) The valid period for an approved APD on a lease suspended under subpart 3103 will be adjusted to account for the suspension. Beginning on the date the suspension is lifted, the valid period of the approved APD will be extended by the time that was remaining on the term of the approved APD on the effective date of the suspension.



---

[N] [89 FR 30997, Apr. 23, 2024]






