# ยง 1207.507   Administrative Committee.

(a) The Board shall annually select from among its members an Administrative Committee composed of producer members as provided for in the Board's bylaws, one or more importer members, and the public member. Selection shall be made in such manner as the Board may prescribe: Except that such committee shall include the Chairperson and nine Vice-Chairpersons, one of whom shall also serve as the Secretary and Treasurer of the Board.


(b) The Administrative Committee shall act for the Board in implementing such marketing research, development, advertising, and/or promotion activities as directed by the Board, and shall, subject to such direction, be charged with developing and submitting to the Secretary for his approval specific programs or projects in the name of the Board. The Administrative Committee shall further act for the Board in authorizing contracts or agreements for the development and carrying out of such programs or projects and the payment of the costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to ยง 1207.342 of the plan. 


(1) The Administrative Committee also shall act for the Board in contracting with cooperating agencies for the collection of assessments pursuant to ยง 1207.513(d). 


(2) [Reserved]


(c) The Board may assign such other administrative powers and duties to the Administrative Committee as it shall determine, and the Administrative Committee shall act on behalf of and in the name of the Board in all administrative matters.



---

[N] [37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 6, 42 FR 55879, Oct. 20, 1977; 44 FR 25621, May 2, 1979; 50 FR 25199, June 18, 1985; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 59 FR 44036, Aug. 26, 1994; 71 FR 76901, Dec. 22, 2006; 78 FR 52082, Aug. 22, 2013; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]






