# ยง 1225.12   How are records schedules developed?

The principal steps in developing agency records schedules are listed below. Additional details that may be helpful are provided in the NARA records management handbook, *Disposition of Federal Records* at *http://www.archives.gov/records-mgmt/publications/disposition-of-federal-records/index.html.*

(a) Conduct a functional or work process analysis to identify the functions or activities performed by each organization or unit. Identify the recordkeeping requirements for each.


(b) Prepare an inventory for each function or activity to identify records series, systems, and nonrecord materials.


(c) Determine the appropriate scope of the records schedule items, e.g., individual series/system component, work process, group of related work processes, or broad program area.


(d) Evaluate the period of time the agency needs each records series or system based on use, value to agency operations and oversight agencies, and legal obligations. Determine whether a fixed or flexible retention period is more appropriate. For records proposed as temporary, specify a retention period that meets agency business needs and legal requirements. For records proposed as permanent records, identify how long the records are needed by the agency before they are transferred to NARA.


(e) Determine whether the proposed disposition should be limited to records in a specific medium. Records schedules submitted to NARA for approval on or after December 17, 2007, are media neutral, *i.e.*, the disposition instructions apply to the described records in any medium, unless the schedule identifies a specific medium for a specific series.


(f) Compile a schedule for records, including descriptions and disposition instructions for each item, using an SF 115.


(g) Obtain internal clearances, as appropriate, from program offices and other stakeholders such as the legal counsel, chief information officer, electronic systems manager, and agency historian, as appropriate.


(h) Obtain approval from the Government Accountability Office (GAO), when required (see ยง 1225.20(a) for the categories that require GAO approval).


(i) Submit an SF 115 covering only new or revised record items to NARA for approval (see ยง 1225.18(d)).


(j) The disposition instructions on SF 115s approved by the Archivist of the United States are mandatory (44 U.S.C. 3314).




