# § 301.38-4   Interstate movement of regulated articles.

(a) *Non-protected areas.* Interstate movement of regulated articles into or through any State or area that is not designated as a protected area under § 301.38-3(d) is allowed without restriction under this subpart.


(b) *Protected areas*—(1) *Prohibited movement.* The following regulated articles are prohibited from moving interstate into or through any protected area:


(i) All rust-susceptible *Berberis*, *Mahoberberis*, and *Mahonia* plants, seeds, fruits, and other plant parts capable of propagation, except Mahonia cuttings for decorative purposes.


(ii) All seed-propagated plants of the *Berberis* species and varieties designated as rust-resistant in § 301.38-2(a)(1) that are of less than 2 years' growth, and any seeds, fruits, and other plant parts capable of propagation from such plants.


(2) *Restricted movement.* The following regulated articles may be moved interstate into or through a protected area with a certificate issued and attached in accordance with §§ 301.38-5 and 301.38-7:


(i) Seed-propagated plants of at least 2 years' growth, clonally propagated plants of any age, seeds, fruits, and other plant parts capable of propagation of the *Berberis* species and varieties designated as rust-resistant in § 301.38-2(a)(1);


(ii) Plants, seeds, fruits, and other plant parts capable of propagation of the *Mahoberberis* and *Mahonia* species and varieties designated as rust-resistant in accordance with § 301.38-2.

(c) An inspector may issue a limited permit to allow a regulated article not eligible for certification under § 301.38-4(b)(2) to move interstate into or through a protected area to a specified destination that is stated in the permit and is outside the protected area, if the requirements of all other applicable Federal domestic plant quarantines are met. A regulated article moved interstate under a limited permit must be placed in a closed sealed container that prevents unauthorized removal of the regulated article, and that remains sealed until the regulated article reaches the final destination stated in the permit. At the final destination, the sealed container must be opened only in the presence of an inspector or with the authorization of an inspector obtained expressly for that shipment. 


(d) The United States Department of Agriculture may move any regulated article interstate into or through a protected area in accordance with the conditions determined necessary to prevent the introduction or spread of black stem rust in protected areas, as specified in a Departmental permit issued for this purpose.



---

[N] [54 FR 32791, Aug. 10, 1989, as amended at 67 FR 8180, Feb. 22, 2002; 71 FR 5778, Feb. 3, 2006; 87 FR 80005, Dec. 29, 2022]




