# ยง 1.6014-1   Tax not computed by taxpayer for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.

(a) *In general.* If an individual is entitled under paragraph (a)(7) of ยง 1.6012-1 to use as his return Form 1040A, he may elect not to show thereon the amount of the tax due in connection with such return if his gross income is less than $5,000.


(b) *Computation and payment of tax.* A taxpayer who, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, elects not to show the tax on Form 1040A is not required to pay the unpaid balance of such tax at the time he files the return. In such case, the tax will be computed for the taxpayer by the Internal Revenue Service, and a notice will be mailed to the taxpayer stating the amount of tax due. Where it is determined that a refund of tax is due, the Internal Revenue Service will send such refund to the taxpayer. See paragraph (c) of ยง 301.6402-3 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).


(c) *Joint return.* (1) A husband and wife who, pursuant to paragraph (a)(7) of ยง 1.6012-1, file a joint return on Form 1040A may elect not to show the tax on such return if their aggregate gross income for the taxable year is less than $5,000.


(2) The tax computed for the taxpayer who files Form 1040A and elects not to show thereon the tax due shall be the lesser of the following amounts:


(i) A tax computed as though the return on Form 1040A constituted the separate returns of the spouses, or


(ii) A tax computed as though the return on Form 1040A constituted a joint return.


(d) *Married individuals filing separate returns.* In the case of a married individual who files a separate return and who elects under this section not to show his tax on Form 1040A his tax shall be computed with reference to the 10-percent standard deduction rather than the minimum standard deduction.


(e) This section shall apply to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12108, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6581, 26 FR 11678, Dec. 6, 1961; T.D. 6792, 30 FR 531, Jan. 15, 1965; T.D. 7102, 36 FR 5497, Mar. 24, 1971]




