# § 630.902   Definitions.

*Agency* means—


(a) An *Executive agency,* as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105;


(b) A *military department,* as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102; or


(c) Any other entity of the Federal Government that employs officers or employees to whom subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, applies. *Agency* does not include the Central Intelligence Agency; the Defense Intelligence Agency; the National Security Agency; the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or any other Executive agency or unit thereof, as determined by the President, whose principal function is the conduct of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities.


*Available paid leave* means accrued or accumulated annual or sick leave under subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, and recredited and restored annual or sick leave under subpart E of this part. *Available paid leave* does not include annual or sick leave advanced to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 6302(d) or 6307(c) or any annual or sick leave accrued under § 630.907(a) that has not been transferred to the appropriate leave account under § 630.907(c).


*Committed relationship* means one in which the employee, and the domestic partner of the employee, are each other's sole domestic partner (and are not married to or domestic partners with anyone else); and share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's common welfare and financial obligations. This includes, but is not limited to, any relationship between two individuals of the same or opposite sex that is granted legal recognition by a State or by the District of Columbia as a marriage or analogous relationship (including, but not limited to, a civil union).


*Domestic partner* means an adult in a committed relationship with another adult, including both same-sex and opposite-sex relationships.


*Employee* has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), except an individual employed by the government of the District of Columbia.


*Family member* means an individual with any of the following relationships to the employee:


(1) Spouse, and parents thereof;


(2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof;


(3) Parents, and spouses thereof;


(4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof;


(5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof;


(6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in paragraphs (2) through (5) of this definition; and


(7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.


*Leave donor* means an employee whose voluntary written request for transfer of annual leave to the annual leave account of a leave recipient is approved by his or her own employing agency.


*Leave recipient* means a current employee for whom the employing agency has approved an application to receive annual leave from the annual leave accounts of one or more leave donors.


*Medical emergency* means a medical condition of an employee or a family member of such employee that is likely to require an employee's absence from duty for a prolonged period of time and to result in a substantial loss of income to the employee because of the unavailability of paid leave.


*Paid leave status under subchapter I* means the administrative status of an employee while the employee is using annual or sick leave accrued or accumulated under subchapter I of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code.


*Parent* means—


(1) A biological, adoptive, step, or foster parent of the employee, or a person who was a foster parent of the employee when the employee was a minor;


(2) A person who is the legal guardian of the employee or was the legal guardian of the employee when the employee was a minor or required a legal guardian; or


(3) A person who stands *in loco parentis* to the employee or stood *in loco parentis* to the employee when the employee was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis.*

(4) A parent, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.


*Shared leave status* means the administrative status of an employee while the employee is using transferred leave under this subpart or leave transferred from a leave bank under subpart J of this part.


*Son or daughter* means—


(1) A biological, adopted, step, or foster son or daughter of the employee;


(2) A person who is a legal ward or was a legal ward of the employee when that individual was a minor or required a legal guardian;


(3) A person for whom the employee stands *in loco parentis* or stood *in loco parentis* when that individual was a minor or required someone to stand *in loco parentis;* or


(4) A son or daughter, as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition, of an employee's spouse or domestic partner.



---

[N] [59 FR 67125, Dec. 29, 1994, as amended at 75 FR 33496, June 14, 2010]




