# § 25.140   Further requirements for license applications for GSO space station operation in the FSS and the 17/24 GHz BSS.

(a)(1) In addition to the information required by § 25.114, an applicant for GSO FSS space station operation involving transmission of analog video signals must certify that the proposed analog video operation has been coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations within six degrees of the requested orbital location.


(2) In addition to the information required by § 25.114, an applicant for GSO FSS space station operation, including applicants proposing feeder links for space stations operating in the 17/24 GHz BSS, that will be located at an orbital location less than two degrees from the assigned location of an authorized co-frequency GSO space station, must either certify that the proposed operation has been coordinated with the operator of the co-frequency space station or submit an interference analysis demonstrating the compatibility of the proposed system with the co-frequency space station. Such an analysis must include, for each type of radio frequency carrier, the link noise budget, modulation parameters, and overall link performance analysis. (See Appendices B and C to Licensing of Space Stations in the Domestic Fixed-Satellite Service, FCC 83-184, and the following public notices, copies of which are available in the Commission's EDOCS database, available at *https://www.fcc.gov/edocs:* DA 03-3863 and DA 04-1708.) The provisions in this paragraph (a)(2) do not apply to proposed analog video operation, which is subject to the requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Proposed GSO FSS space-to-Earth transmissions in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band are subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section with respect to possible interference into 17/24 GHz BSS networks. Proposed GSO FSS space-to-Earth transmissions in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band are subject to the requirements of § 25.264 with respect to possible interference to the reception of DBS feeder link transmissions (Earth-to-space) in this band.


(3) In addition to the information required by § 25.114, an applicant for a GSO FSS space station, including applicants proposing feeder links for space stations operating in the 17/24 GHz BSS, must provide the following for operation other than analog video operation:


(i) With respect to proposed operation in the conventional or extended C-bands, a certification that downlink EIRP density will not exceed 3 dBW/4kHz for digital transmissions or 8 dBW/4kHz for analog transmissions and that associated uplink operation will not exceed applicable EIRP density envelopes in § 25.218 unless the non-routine uplink and/or downlink operation is coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations at assigned locations within six degrees of the orbital location of the proposed space station and except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) With respect to proposed operation in the conventional or extended Ku-bands, a certification that downlink EIRP density will not exceed 14 dBW/4kHz for digital transmissions or 17 dBW/4kHz for analog transmissions and that associated uplink operation will not exceed applicable EIRP density envelopes in § 25.218 unless the non-routine uplink and/or downlink operation is coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations at assigned locations within six degrees of the orbital location of the proposed space station and except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(iii) With respect to proposed FSS operation in the conventional or extended Ka-bands, a certification that the proposed space station will not generate power flux density at the Earth's surface in excess of the limits in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, and that associated uplink operation will not exceed applicable EIRP density envelopes in § 25.218(i) unless the non-routine uplink and/or downlink operation is coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations at assigned locations within six degrees of the orbital location and except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(A) −118 dBW/m
2/MHz, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) For space-to-Earth FSS transmissions in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band in the region of the contiguous United States, located west of 100 West Longitude: −121 dBW/m
2/MHz.


(iv) With respect to proposed operation in the 24.75-25.25 GHz band (Earth-to-space), a certification that the proposed uplink operation will not exceed the applicable EIRP density envelopes in § 25.138(a) and that the associated space station will not generate a power flux density at the Earth's surface in excess of the applicable limits in this part, unless the non-routine uplink and/or downlink FSS operation is coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations at assigned locations within six degrees of the orbital location and except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(v) With respect to proposed operation in the 4500-4800 MHz (space-to-Earth), 6725-7025 MHz (Earth-to-space), 10.70-10.95 GHz (space-to-Earth), 11.20-11.45 GHz (space-to-Earth), and/or 12.75-13.25 GHz (Earth-to-space) bands, a statement that the proposed operation will take into account the applicable requirements of Appendix 30B of the ITU Radio Regulations (incorporated by reference, *see* § 25.108) and a demonstration that it is compatible with other U.S. ITU filings under Appendix 30B.


(vi) With respect to proposed operation in other FSS bands, an interference analysis demonstrating compatibility with any previously authorized co-frequency space station at a location two degrees away or a certification that the proposed operation has been coordinated with the operator(s) of the previously authorized space station(s). If there is no previously authorized space station at a location two degrees away, the applicant must submit an interference analysis demonstrating compatibility with a hypothetical co-frequency space station two degrees away with the same receiving and transmitting characteristics as the proposed space station.


(b) Each applicant for a license to operate a space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band must provide the following information, in addition to that required by § 25.114:


(1)-(2) [Reserved] 






(3) An applicant for a license to operate a 17/24 GHz BSS space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band must certify that the downlink power flux density on the Earth's surface will not exceed the regional power flux density limits given in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section, or must provide the certification specified in § 25.114(d)(15)(ii):


(i) In the region of the contiguous United States, located south of 38° North Latitude and east of 100° West Longitude: −115 dBW/m
2/MHz.


(ii) In the region of the contiguous United States, located north of 38° North Latitude and east of 100° West Longitude: −118 dBW/m
2/MHz.


(iii) In the region of the contiguous United States, located west of 100° West Longitude: −121 dBW/m
2/MHz.


(iv) For all regions outside of the contiguous United States including Alaska and Hawaii: −115 dBW/m
2/MHz.


(4) Except as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the following applicants must either certify that their proposed operations have been coordinated with the adjacent operator of a previously authorized or proposed co-frequency space station, or must provide an interference analysis of the kind described in paragraph (a) of this section, except that the applicant must demonstrate that its proposed network will not cause more interference to the adjacent space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band operating in compliance with the technical requirements of this part, than if the applicant were located at an orbital separation of four degrees from the previously licensed or proposed space station.


(i) Applicants for a 17/24 GHz BSS space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band to be located less than four degrees from a previously authorized or proposed co-frequency 17/24 GHz BSS space station;


(ii) Applicants for a FSS space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band to be located less than four degrees from a previously authorized or proposed co-frequency 17/24 GHz BSS space station; and


(iii) Applicants for a 17/24 GHz BSS space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band to be located less than four degrees from a previously authorized or proposed co-frequency FSS space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band.


(5) Where an authorized or proposed 17/24 GHz BSS or FSS space station is located within four degrees of a previously authorized or proposed 17/24 GHz BSS space station, no new third proposed 17/24 GHz BSS or FSS space station may be located within eight degrees of the first authorized or proposed space station in the same direction as the second authorized or proposed space station, unless the applicant for the third space station certifies that its proposed operation has been coordinated with the operator of the first previously authorized or proposed 17/24 GHz BSS space station, or the applicant for the third proposed space station provides an interference analysis of the kind described in paragraph (a) of this section, or the applicant for the third proposed space station demonstrates that its proposed network will not cause more interference to the first previously authorized or proposed space station than if the applicant for the third proposed space station were located at an orbital separation of eight degrees from the first previously authorized or proposed 17/24 GHz BSS space station.


(6) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3), (4), and (5) of this section, the link budget for any satellite transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band (space-to-Earth) must take into account longitudinal station-keeping tolerances. Any applicant for a space station transmitting in the 17.3-17.8 GHz band that has reached a coordination agreement with an operator of another space station to allow that operator to exceed the pfd levels specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) or (b)(3) of this section, must use those higher pfd levels for the purpose of this showing.


(c) [Reserved] 


(d) An operator of a GSO FSS space station in the conventional or extended C-bands, conventional or extended Ku-bands, 24.75-25.25 GHz band (Earth-to-space), or conventional or extended Ka-bands may notify the Commission of its non-routine transmission levels and be relieved of the obligation to coordinate such levels with later applicants and petitioners.


(1) The letter notification must include the downlink off-axis EIRP density levels or power flux density levels and/or uplink off-axis EIRP density levels, specified per frequency range and space station antenna beam, that exceed the relevant routine limits set forth in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section and § 25.218.


(2) The notification will be placed on public notice pursuant to § 25.151(a)(11).


(3) Non-routine transmissions notified pursuant to this paragraph (d) need not be coordinated with operators of authorized co-frequency space stations that filed their complete applications or petitions after the date of filing of the notification with the Commission. Such later applicants and petitioners must accept any additional interference caused by the notified non-routine transmissions.


(4) An operator of a replacement space station, as defined in § 25.165(e), may operate with non-routine transmission levels to the extent permitted under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for the replaced space station.


(e)-(g) [Reserved]



---

[N] [62 FR 5929, Feb. 10, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 51504, Aug. 27, 2003; 72 FR 50028, Aug. 29, 2007; 72 FR 60279, Oct. 24, 2007; 78 FR 8422, Feb. 6, 2013; 79 FR 8319, Feb. 12, 2014; 79 FR 44312, July 31, 2014; 81 FR 55332, Aug. 18, 2016; 83 FR 34490, July 20, 2018; 84 FR 53654, Oct. 8, 2019; 86 FR 49489, Sept. 3, 2021; 87 FR 72404, Nov. 25, 2022; 89 FR 58072, 58074, July 17, 2024; 89 FR 66615, Aug. 16, 2024]






















