# ยง 325.5   Methodologies and practices.

(a) *Potential impact on capital.* In conducting a stress test under this part, during each quarter of the planning horizon, each covered bank must estimate the following for each scenario required to be used:


(1) Pre-provision net revenues, losses, provision for credit losses, and net income; and


(2) The potential impact on the regulatory capital levels and ratios applicable to the covered bank, and any other capital ratios specified by the Corporation, incorporating the effects of any capital action over the planning horizon and maintenance of an allowance for loan losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as appropriate, for credit exposures throughout the planning horizon.


(b) *Controls and oversight of stress testing processes.* (1) The senior management of a covered bank must establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, that are designed to ensure that its stress test processes satisfy the requirements in this part. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the covered bank's stress test practices and methodologies, and processes for validating and updating the covered bank's stress test practices and methodologies consistent with applicable laws and regulations.


(2) The board of directors, or a committee thereof, of a covered bank must approve and review the policies and procedures of the stress testing processes as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the covered bank may warrant, but no less than once every reporting year. The board of directors and senior management of the covered bank must receive a summary of the results of the stress test.


(3) The board of directors and senior management of each covered bank must consider the results of the stress tests in the normal course of business, including but not limited to, the covered bank's capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy, and risk management practices.



---

[N] [77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012. Redesignated and amended at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018; 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56933, 56934, Oct. 24, 2019]




