# § 4279.231   Fees.

(a) *Guarantee fee.* The guarantee fee is paid to the Agency by the Lender and is nonrefundable. The fee may be passed on to the Borrower. Issuance of the Loan Note Guarantee is conditioned on payment of the guarantee fee by closing. The guarantee fee will be the percentage specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable, unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ multiplied by the principal loan amount multiplied by the percent of guarantee and will be paid one time only at the time the Loan Note Guarantee is issued.


(1) For loans receiving a 90 percent guarantee, the guarantee fee is three percent.


(2) For loans receiving less than a 90 percent guarantee, the guarantee fee is:


(i) Two percent for guarantees on loans greater than 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.


(ii) One and one-half percent for guarantees on loans of greater than 65 percent but less than or equal to 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.


(iii) One percent for guarantees on loans of 65 percent or less of total Eligible Project Costs.


(b) *Annual Renewal Fee.* The Annual Renewal Fee, which may be passed on to the Borrower, is paid by the Lender to the Agency for as long as the guarantee is outstanding and is payable during the construction period.


(1) The amount of the annual renewal fee is calculated by the outstanding principal loan balance as of December 31 of each year multiplied by the Annual Renewal Fee rate, multiplied by the percent of guarantee. The rate is the rate in effect at the time the loan is obligated, and will remain in effect for the life of the loan.


(2) The Annual Renewal Fee is paid once a year and is required to maintain the enforceability of the guarantee as to the lender. Annual Renewal Rees are due on January 31. Payments not received by April 1 are considered delinquent and, at the Agency's discretion, may result in cancellation of the guarantee to the lender. Holders' rights will continue in effect as specified in the Loan Note Guarantee and Assignment Guarantee Agreement. Any delinquent Annual Renewal Fees will bear interest at the note rate and will be deducted from any loss payment due the lender. For loans where the Loan Note Guarantee is issued between October 1 and December 31, the first Annual Renewal Fee payment will be due January 31 of the second year following the date the Loan Note Guarantee was issued.


(3) When the Agency repurchases 100 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan, the Agency will not continue collection of the Annual Renewal Fee.


(4) Unless otherwise specified by the Agency in a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ the Annual Renewal Fee rate will be as follows:


(i) One hundred basis points (1 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.


(ii) Seventy five basis points (0.75 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally greater than 65 percent but less than or equal to 75 percent of total Eligible Project Costs.


(iii) Fifty basis points (0.50 percent) for guarantees on loans that were originally for 65 percent or less of Total Eligible Project Costs.


(c) *Routine Lender fees.* The Lender may establish charges and fees for the loan provided they are similar to those normally charged other applicants for the same type of loan in the ordinary course of business, and these fees are an eligible use of loan proceeds. The Lender must document such routine fees on Form RD 4279-1, “Application for Loan Guarantee.” The Lender may charge prepayment penalties and late payment fees that are stipulated in the loan documents, as long as they are reasonable and customary; however, the Loan Note Guarantee will not cover either prepayment penalties or late payment fees.




