# ยง 2.10-5   Exemptions.

(a) Vessels owned or operated by a non-profit organization may be exempted from payment of the fees required by this subpart, only if the vessel is used exclusively for one or more of the following:


(1) Training youth in boating, seamanship, or navigation skills;


(2) Educating youth in a course of marine environmental studies;


(3) Providing excursions for persons with disabilities as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) [42 U.S.C. 12102(2)]; or


(4) Providing medical services.


(b) Vessels owned or operated by the Federal government or the government of any State or political subdivision thereunder may be exempted from the fees required by this subpart provided the vessel is used exclusively for one or more of the purposes listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) The term *used exclusively* in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section does not preclude:


(1) The carriage of adult volunteers or crew, or


(2) The vessel's use for fundraising activities without regard to the age of the participants aboard the vessel, provided revenues raised are for the operation and maintenance of the vessel and that such fundraising activities do not exceed one day of fundraising for each month of the vessel's operating season.


(d) Vessel owners or operators may submit a written request for exemption to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, of the Marine Inspection Zone in which the vessel normally operates. The exemption request must provide the vessel name, the vessel identification number, and evidence that the organization and the vessel meet the criteria set forth in this section. The Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection will endorse and forward the request to Commandant (CG-DCO-83) for decision.



---

[N] [CGD 96-067, 62 FR 19232, Apr. 21, 1997, as amended by CGD 96-067, 63 FR 59474, Nov. 4, 1998; USCG-2010-0759, 75 FR 60001, Sept. 29, 2010]




