# § 258.50   Applicability.

(a) The requirements in this part apply to MSWLF units, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) Ground-water monitoring requirements under § 258.51 through § 258.55 of this part may be suspended by the Director of an approved State for a MSWLF unit if the owner or operator can demonstrate that there is no potential for migration of hazardous constituents from that MSWLF unit to the uppermost aquifer (as defined in § 258.2) during the active life of the unit and the post-closure care period. This demonstration must be certified by a qualified ground-water scientist and approved by the Director of an approved State, and must be based upon: 


(1) Site-specific field collected measurements, sampling, and analysis of physical, chemical, and biological processes affecting contaminant fate and transport, and 


(2) Contaminant fate and transport predictions that maximize contaminant migration and consider impacts on human health and environment. 


(c) Owners and operators of MSWLF units, except those meeting the conditions of § 258.1(f), must comply with the ground-water monitoring requirements of this part according to the following schedule unless an alternative schedule is specified under paragraph (d) of this section: 


(1) Existing MSWLF units and lateral expansions less than one mile from a drinking water intake (surface or subsurface) must be in compliance with the ground-water monitoring requirements specified in §§ 258.51-258.55 by October 9, 1994; 


(2) Existing MSWLF units and lateral expansions greater than one mile but less than two miles from a drinking water intake (surface or subsurface) must be in compliance with the ground-water monitoring requirements specified in §§ 258.51-258.55 by October 9, 1995;


(3) Existing MSWLF units and lateral expansions greater than two miles from a drinking water intake (surface or subsurface) must be in compliance with the ground-water monitoring requirements specified in §§ 258.51-258.55 by October 9, 1996. 


(4) New MSWLF units must be in compliance with the ground-water monitoring requirements specified in §§ 258.51-258.55 before waste can be placed in the unit. 


(d) The Director of an approved State may specify an alternative schedule for the owners or operators of existing MSWLF units and lateral expansions to comply with the ground-water monitoring requirements specified in §§ 258.51-258.55. This schedule must ensure that 50 percent of all existing MSWLF units are in compliance by October 9, 1994 and all existing MSWLF units are in compliance by October 9, 1996. In setting the compliance schedule, the Director of an approved State must consider potential risks posed by the unit to human health and the environment. The following factors should be considered in determining potential risk: 


(1) Proximity of human and environmental receptors; 


(2) Design of the MSWLF unit; 


(3) Age of the MSWLF unit; 


(4) The size of the MSWLF unit; and 


(5) Types and quantities of wastes disposed including sewage sludge; and


(6) Resource value of the underlying aquifer, including:


(i) Current and future uses;


(ii) Proximity and withdrawal rate of users; and


(iii) Ground-water quality and quantity.


(e) Owners and operators of all MSWLF units that meet the conditions of § 258.1(f)(1) must comply with all applicable ground-water monitoring requirements of this part by October 9, 1997. 


(f) Once established at a MSWLF unit, ground-water monitoring shall be conducted throughout the active life and post-closure care period of that MSWLF unit as specified in § 258.61.


(g) For the purposes of this subpart, a *qualified ground-water scientist* is a scientist or engineer who has received a baccalaureate or post-graduate degree in the natural sciences or engineering and has sufficient training and experience in groundwater hydrology and related fields as may be demonstrated by State registration, professional Certifications, or completion of accredited university programs that enable that individual to make sound professional judgements regarding ground-water monitoring, contaminant fate and transport, and corrective-action.


(h) The Director of an approved State may establish alternative schedules for demonstrating compliance with § 258.51(d)(2), pertaining to notification of placement of certification in operating record; § 258.54(c)(1), pertaining to notification that statistically significant increase (SSI) notice is in operating record; § 258.54(c) (2) and (3), pertaining to an assessment monitoring program; § 258.55(b), pertaining to sampling and analyzing appendix II constituents; § 258.55(d)(1), pertaining to placement of notice (appendix II constituents detected) in record and notification of notice in record; § 258.55(d)(2), pertaining to sampling for appendix I and II to this part; § 258.55(g), pertaining to notification (and placement of notice in record) of SSI above ground-water protection standard; §§ 258.55(g)(1)(iv) and 258.56(a), pertaining to assessment of corrective measures; § 258.57(a), pertaining to selection of remedy and notification of placement in record; § 258.58(c)(4), pertaining to notification of placement in record (alternative corrective action measures); and § 258.58(f), pertaining to notification of placement in record (certification of remedy completed).



---

[N] [56 FR 51016, Oct. 9, 1991; 57 FR 28628, June 26, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 51547, Oct. 1, 1993; 60 FR 52342, Oct. 6, 1995]




