# § 7.45   Everglades National Park.

(a) *Information collection.* The information collection requirements contained in this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et.seq., and assigned clearance number 1024-0026. This information is being collected to solicit information necessary for the Superintendent to issue permits used to grant administrative benefits. The obligation to respond is required in order to obtain a benefit. 


(b) *Prohibited conveyances.* Only hand-propelled vessels may be operated upon those areas of emergent vegetation commonly called marshes, wetlands, or “the glades.” Operation of a motorized vessel in such areas is prohibited. 


(c) *Definitions.* The following definitions shall apply to this section: 


(1) *Ballyhoo* means a member of the genus Hemiramphus (family: Exocoetidae). 


(2) *Cast net* means a type of circular falling net, weighted on its periphery, which is thrown and retrieved by hand. 


(3) *Commercial fishing* means the activity of taking or harvesting, or attempting to take or harvest any edible or non-edible form of fresh or salt water aquatic life for the purpose of sale or barter. 


(4) *Dipnet* means a hand-held device for obtaining bait, the netting of which is fastened in a frame. 


(5) *Guide fishing* means the activity, of a person, partnership, firm, corporation, or other commercial entity to provide fishing services, for hire, to visitors of the park. 


(6) *Minnow* means a fish used for bait from the family Cyprinodointidae, Poeciliidae, or Atherinidae. 


(7) *Mojarra* or “goats” means a member of the family Gerreidae. 


(8) *Oyster* means a mollusk of the suborder Ostraeaccea. 


(9) *Personal watercraft* means a vessel powered by an outboard motor, water-jet or an enclosed propeller or impeller system, where persons ride standing, sitting or kneeling primarily on or behind the vessel, as opposed to standing or sitting inside; these craft are sometimes referred to by, but not limited to, such terms as “wave runner,” “jet ski,” “wet bike,” or “Sea-doo.” 


(10) *Pilchard* means a member of the herring family (Clupeidae), generally used for bait. 


(11) *Pinfish* means a member of the genus Lagodon (family: Spiradae). 


(d) *Fishing.* (1) Fishing restrictions, based on management objectives described in the park's Resources Management Plan, are established annually by the Superintendent. 


(2) The Superintendent may impose closures and establish conditions or restrictions, in accordance with procedures found at §§ 1.5 and 1.7 of this chapter, on any activity pertaining to fishing, including, but not limited to species of fish that may be taken, seasons and hours during which fishing may take place, methods of taking, and size, creel and possession limits. 


(3) The following waters are closed to fishing: 


(i) All waters of T. 58 S., R. 37 E., sections 10 through 15, inclusive, measured from Tallahassee meridian and base, in the vicinity of Royal Palm Visitor Center, except Hole in the Donut or Hidden Lake, and Pine Island Lake. 


(ii) All waters in T.54 S., R. 36 E., sections 19, 30, and 31, and in T. 55 S., R. 36 E., sections 6, 7, 18, 19, and 30, measured from Tallahassee meridian and base, in the vicinity of Shark Valley Loop Road from Tamiami Trail south. 


(4) A person engaged in guide fishing must possess a guide fishing permit issued by the Superintendent and administered under the terms of § 1.6 of this chapter. Guide fishing without a valid permit is prohibited. 


(5) Except for taking finfish, shrimp, bait, crabs, and oysters, as provided in this section or as modified under 36 CFR 1.5, the taking, possession, or disturbance of any fresh or saltwater aquatic life is prohibited. 


(6) Methods of taking. Except as provided in this section, only a closely attended hook and line may be used for fishing activities within the park. 


(i) Crabbing for stone or blue crabs may be conducted using attended gear only and no more than five (5) traps per person. Persons using traps must remain within one hundred (100) feet of those traps. Unattended gear or use of more than five (5) traps per person is prohibited. 


(ii) Shrimp, mullet, and bait fish (minnows, pilchards, pinfish, mojarras, ballyhoo or bait mullet (less than eight (8) inches in total length) may be taken with hook and line, dipnet (not exceeding 3 feet at its widest point) or cast net, for use as bait or personal consumption. 


(iii) A dipnet or cast net may not be dragged, trawled, or held suspended in the water. 


(7) Tagging, marking, fin clipping, mutilation or other disturbance to a caught fish, prior to release is prohibited without written authorization from the Superintendent. 


(8) Fish may not be fileted while in the park, except that: 


(i) Up to four (4) filets per person may be produced for immediate cooking and consumption at designated campsites or on board vessels equipped with cooking facilities. 


(ii) Fish may be fileted while at the designated park fish cleaning facilities, before transportation to their final destination. 


(9) Nets and gear that are legal to use in State waters, and fish and other edible or non-edible sea life that are legally acquired in State waters but are illegal to possess in the waters of Everglades National Park may be transported through the park only over Indian Key Pass, Sand Fly Pass, Rabbit Key Pass, Chokoloskee Pass and across Chokoloskee Bay, along the most direct route to or from Everglades City, Chokoloskee Island or Fakahatchee Bay. 


(i) Boats traveling through these passages with such nets, gear, fish, or other edible products of the sea must remain in transit unless disabled or weather and sea conditions combine to make safe passage impossible, at which time the boats may be anchored to await assistance or better conditions. 


(ii) [Reserved]


(e) *Boating.* (1) The Superintendent may close an area to all motorized vessels, or vessels with motors greater than a specified horsepower, or impose other restrictions as necessary, in accordance with §§ 1.5 and 1.7 of this chapter. 


(2) For purposes of this section, a vessel in which the motor(s) is (are) removed from the gunnels or transom and stored to be inoperable, is considered to be not motorized. 


(3) The following areas are closed to all vessels: 


(i) T. 54 S., R. 36 E., sections 19, 30, 31; T. 55 S., R. 36 E., sections 6, 7, 18, 19, and 30, bordering the Shark Valley Loop Road from the Tamiami Trail south. 


(ii) Eco Pond, Mrazek Pond, Royal Palm Ponds except for Hidden Lake, Parachute Key ponds north of the Main Park Road, and Lake Chekika. 


(4) The following inland fresh water areas are closed to the use of motorized vessels: Coot Bay Pond, Nine Mile Pond, Paurotis Pond, Sweetbay Pond, Big Ficus Pond, Sisal Pond, Pine Glade Lake, Long Pine Key Lake, Tower Lake, Hidden Lake, Pine Island, and L-67 canal. 


(5) The following coastal waters, designated by statute as wilderness (Pub. L. 95-625), are closed to the use of motorized vessels: Mud, Bear, East Fox, Middle Fox, Little Fox, and Gator Lakes; Homestead Canal; all associated small lakes on Cape Sable inland from Lake Ingraham; Cuthbert, Henry, Little Henry, Seven Palm, Middle, Monroe, Long, and the Lungs Lakes; Alligator Creek from the shoreline of Garfield Bight to West Lake; all inland creeks and lakes north of Long Sound, Joe Bay, and Little Madeira Bay except those ponds and lakes associated with Taylor River. 


(6) Except to effect a rescue, or unless otherwise officially authorized, no person shall land on keys of Florida Bay except those marked by signs denoting the area open, or on the mainland shorelines from Terrapin Point eastward to U.S. Highway 1, including the shores of all inland bays and waters and those shorelines contiguous with Long Sound, Little Blackwater Sound, and Blackwater Sound. 


(7) West Lake Pond and West Lake shall be closed to all vessels when they are being used by feeding birds. At all other times, these areas shall be open only to hand-propelled vessels or Class A motorboats powered by motors not to exceed 6 horsepower. 


(8) Vessels used as living quarters shall not remain in or be operated in the waters of the Park for more than 14 days without a permit issued by the Superintendent. Said permit will prescribe anchorage location, length of stay, sanitary requirements and such other conditions as considered necessary. 


(f) Violation of any of the provisions of § 7.45 is prohibited.



---

[N] [59 FR 58785, Nov. 15, 1994; 60 FR 6022, Feb. 1, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 13706, Mar. 23, 2007]




