# ยง 22.10   Decisions and notices.

(a) *Procedure on decisions by hearing examiner.* If the hearing is held by a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner shall either make an initial decision, if so authorized, or certify the entire record including his recommended findings and proposed decision to the designated agency official for a final decision, and a copy of such initial decision or certification shall be mailed to the applicant or recipient. Where the initial decision is made by the hearing examiner the applicant or recipient may, within 30 days after the mailing of such notice of initial decision, file with the designated Agency official the applicant's or recipient's exceptions to the initial decision, with the reasons therefor. In the absence of exceptions, the designated Agency official may, on his or her own motion, within 45 days after the initial decision, serve on the applicant or recipient a notice that the designated Agency official will review the decision. Upon the filing of such exceptions or of notice of review, the designated Agency official shall review the initial decision and issue his or her own decision thereon including the reasons therefor. In the absence of either exceptions or a notice of review the initial decision shall, subject to paragraph (e) of this section, constitute the final decision of the designated Agency official.


(b) *Decisions on record or review by the designated Agency official.* Whenever a record is certified to the designated Agency official for decision or he or she reviews the decision of a hearing examiner pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, or whenever the designated Agency official conducts the hearing, the applicant or recipient shall be given reasonable opportunity to file with the designated Agency official briefs or other written statements of its contentions, and a written copy of the final decision of the designated Agency official shall be sent to the applicant or recipient and to the complainant, if any.


(c) *Decisions on record where a hearing is waived.* Whenever a hearing is waived pursuant to ยง 22.9, a decision shall be made by the designated Agency official on the record and a written copy of such decision shall be sent to the applicant or recipient, and to the complainant, if any.


(d) *Rulings required.* Each decision of a hearing examiner or the designated Agency official shall set forth his or her ruling on each finding, conclusion, or exception presented, and shall identify the requirement or requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part with which it is found that the applicant or recipient has failed to comply.


(e) *Approval by designated Agency official.* Any final decision by an official of the Agency, other than the designated Agency official personally, which provides for the suspension or termination of, or the refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, or the imposition of any other sanction available under this part or Title VI, shall promptly be transmitted to the designated Agency official personally, who may approve such decision, may vacate it, or remit or mitigate any sanction imposed.


(f) *Content of orders.* The final decision may provide for suspension or termination of, or refusal to grant or continue federal financial assistance, in whole or in part, to which this regulation applies, and may contain such terms, conditions, and other provisions as are consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of Title VI and this part, including provisions designed to assure that no federal financial assistance to which this regulation applies will thereafter be extended to the applicant or recipient determined by such decision to be in default in its performance of an assurance given by it pursuant to this part, or to have otherwise failed to comply with this part, unless and until it corrects its noncompliance and satisfies the designated Agency official that it will fully comply with this part.


(g) *Post termination proceedings.* (1) An applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall be restored to full eligibility to receive federal financial assistance if it satisfies the terms and conditions of that order for such eligibility or if it brings itself into compliance with this part and provides reasonable assurance that it will fully comply with this part.


(2) Any applicant or recipient adversely affected by an order entered pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section may at any time request the designated Agency official to restore fully its eligibility to receive federal financial assistance. Any such request shall be supported by information showing that the applicant or recipient has met the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. If the designated Agency official determines that those requirements have been satisfied, he or she shall restore such eligibility.


(3) If the designated Agency official denies any such request, the applicant or recipient may submit a request for a hearing in writing, specifying why it believes such official to have been in error. It shall thereupon be given an expeditious hearing, with a decision on the record in accordance with rules or procedures issued by the designated Agency official. The applicant or recipient will be restored to such eligibility if it proves at such a hearing that it satisfied the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. While proceedings under this paragraph are pending, the sanctions imposed by the order issued under paragraph (f) of this section shall remain in effect.




