# § 191.102   Procedure.

(a) *General.* Other provisions of this part relating to direct identification drawback (see subpart B of this part) shall apply to claims for drawback filed under this subpart insofar as applicable to and not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart.


(b) *Manufacturing record.* The manufacturer of flavoring extracts or medicinal or toilet preparations on which drawback is claimed shall record the products manufactured, the quantity of waste, if any, and a full description of the alcohol. These records shall be available at all times for inspection by Customs officers.


(c) *Additional information required on the manufacturer's application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling.* The manufacturer's application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling, under § 191.8 of this part, shall state the quantity of domestic tax-paid alcohol contained in each product on which drawback is claimed.


(d) *Variance in alcohol content*—(1) *Variance of more than 5 percent.* If the percentage of alcohol contained in a medicinal preparation, flavoring extract or toilet preparation varies by more than 5 percent from the percentage of alcohol in the total volume of the exported product as stated in a previously approved application for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling, the manufacturer shall apply for a new specific manufacturing drawback ruling pursuant to § 191.8 of this part. If the variation differs from a previously filed schedule, the manufacturer shall file a new schedule incorporating the change.


(2) *Variance of 5 percent or less.* Variances of 5 percent or less of the volume of the product shall be reported to the appropriate drawback office where the drawback entries are liquidated. In such cases, the drawback office may allow drawback without specific authorization from Customs Headquarters.


(e) *Time period for completing claims.* The 3-year period for the completion of drawback claims prescribed in 19 U.S.C. 1313(r)(1) shall be applicable to claims for drawback under this subpart.


(f) *Filing of drawback entries on duty-paid imported merchandise and tax-paid alcohol.* When the drawback claim covers duty-paid imported merchandise in addition to tax-paid alcohol, the claimant shall file one set of entries for drawback of Customs duty and another set for drawback of internal revenue tax.


(g) *Description of the alcohol.* The description of the alcohol stated in the drawback entry may be obtained from the description on the package containing the tax-paid alcohol.




