# § 172.46   Submission of a notification.

(a) *When to submit a Notification.* A Notification shall be submitted for approval at least 90 days prior to the initiation of the proposed test.


(b) *Where to submit a notification.* A notification shall be submitted to the Office of Pesticide Programs' Document Processing Desk at the appropriate address as set forth in 40 CFR 150.17(a) or (b), Attention: Biotechnology Notification Review.


(c) *How to format a Notification.* A Notification submitted under this section must comply with the following procedures, but is not required to comply with the format and other provisions governing submission of data in §§ 158.32 and 158.33 or §§ 161.32 and 161.33 of this chapter. However, because data submitted with the Notification may subsequently be used to support other regulatory actions (e.g., used in EUP or registration applications), it is recommended that such data comply with EPA requirements in §§ 158.32 and 158.33 of this chapter.


(1) Each Notification must be accompanied by a transmittal document that clearly identifies the EPA action supported as a Biotechnology Notification Review.


(2) Five copies of each Notification must be submitted to EPA.


(3) Any claims of confidentiality for information submitted in the Notification must be made as described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *How to make confidential business information (CBI) claims in a Notification.* Although it is strongly recommended that the submitter minimize the amount of data and other information claimed as CBI, a submitter may assert a claim of confidentiality for all or part of the information submitted to EPA in a Notification (See part 2, subpart B of this chapter). To assert such a claim, the submitter must comply with the following procedures:


(1) Any claim of confidentiality must accompany the information at the time the information is submitted to EPA. Failure to assert a claim at that time will be considered a waiver of confidentiality for the information submitted, and the information may be made available to the public, subject to section 10(g) of the Act, with no further notice to the submitter.


(2) Of the five copies of the Notification required by paragraph (c) of this section, four copies must be complete with the information that is claimed confidential clearly marked in the manner described in § 2.203(b) of this chapter. All information claimed as confidential must be deleted from the fifth copy, but it must be otherwise complete. The first page of the fifth copy must be marked “Contains no information claimed as confidential.” EPA may include the fifth copy in a public file without further notice. EPA will consider incomplete a Notification containing information claimed as CBI that is not submitted in accordance with this paragraph and will suspend the review period on the Notification until such procedures are followed.


(3) Any claim of confidentiality must be accompanied, at the time the claim is made, by comments substantiating the claim and explaining why the submitter believes that the information should not be disclosed. The submitter should refer to § 2.204(e)(4) of this chapter for points to address in the substantiation. If such comments are themselves claimed confidential and are marked confidential when submitted to EPA, they will be treated as such in accordance with § 2.205(c) of this chapter. EPA will consider incomplete all Notifications containing information claimed as CBI that are not accompanied by substantiation, and will suspend the review period on such Notifications until the required substantiation is provided.


(4) EPA will disclose information that is subject to a claim of confidentiality asserted under this section only to the extent and by means of the procedures set forth in section 10 of the Act, in this subpart, and in part 2 of this chapter.



---

[N] [59 FR 45612, Sept. 1, 1994, as amended at 71 FR 35546, June 21, 2006; 72 FR 61029, Oct. 26, 2007; 73 FR 75600, Dec. 12, 2008]




