# § 241.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


*Clean cellulosic biomass* means those residuals that are akin to traditional cellulosic biomass, including, but not limited to: Agricultural and forest-derived biomass (e.g., green wood, forest thinnings, clean and unadulterated bark, sawdust, trim, tree harvesting residuals from logging and sawmill materials, hogged fuel, wood pellets, untreated wood pallets); urban wood (e.g., tree trimmings, stumps, and related forest-derived biomass from urban settings); corn stover and other biomass crops used specifically for the production of cellulosic biofuels (e.g., energy cane, other fast growing grasses, byproducts of ethanol natural fermentation processes); bagasse and other crop residues (e.g., peanut shells, vines, orchard trees, hulls, seeds, spent grains, cotton byproducts, corn and peanut production residues, rice milling and grain elevator operation residues); wood collected from forest fire clearance activities, trees and clean wood found in disaster debris, clean biomass from land clearing operations, and clean construction and demolition wood. These fuels are not secondary materials or solid wastes unless discarded. Clean biomass is biomass that does not contain contaminants at concentrations not normally associated with virgin biomass materials.


*Construction and demolition (C&D) wood* means wood that is generated from the processing of debris from construction and demolition activities for the purposes of recovering wood. C&D wood from construction activities results from wood generated during any installation activity or from purchasing more wood than a project ultimately requires. C&D wood from demolition activities results from dismantling buildings and other structures, removing materials during renovation, or from natural disasters.


*Contaminants* means all pollutants listed in Clean Air Act sections 112(b) or 129(a)(4), with the following three modifications:


(1) The definition includes the elements chlorine, fluorine, nitrogen, and sulfur in cases where non-hazardous secondary materials are burned as a fuel and combustion will result in the formation of hydrogen chloride (HCl), hydrogen fluoride (HF), nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), or sulfur dioxide (SO_2_). Chlorine, fluorine, nitrogen, and sulfur are not included in the definition in cases where non-hazardous secondary materials are used as an ingredient and not as a fuel.


(2) The definition does not include the following pollutants that are either unlikely to be found in non-hazardous secondary materials and products made from such materials or are adequately measured by other parts of this definition: hydrogen chloride (HCl), chlorine gas (Cl_2_), hydrogen fluoride (HF), nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), sulfur dioxide (SO_2_), fine mineral fibers, particulate matter, coke oven emissions, opacity, diazomethane, white phosphorus, and titanium tetrachloride.


(3) The definition does not include m-cresol, o-cresol, p-cresol, m-xylene, o-xylene, and p-xylene as individual contaminants distinct from the grouped pollutants total cresols and total xylenes.


*Contained* means the non-hazardous secondary material is stored in a manner that adequately prevents releases or other hazards to human health and the environment considering the nature and toxicity of the non-hazardous secondary material.


*Control* means the power to direct the policies of the facility, whether by the ownership of stock, voting rights, or otherwise, except that contractors who operate facilities on behalf of a different person as defined in this section shall not be deemed to “control” such facilities.


*Copper naphthenate treated railroad ties* means railroad ties treated with copper naphthenate made from naphthenic acid and copper salt.


*Copper naphthenate-borate treated railroad ties* means railroad ties treated with copper naphthenate and borate, including borate made from disodium octaborate tetrahydrate.


*Creosote treated railroad ties* means railway support ties treated with a wood preservative containing creosols and phenols and made from coal tar oil.


*Creosote-borate treated railroad ties* means railroad ties treated with a wood preservative containing creosols and phenols and made from coal tar oil and borate, including borate made from disodium octaborate tetrahydrate.


*Established tire collection program* means a comprehensive collection system or contractual arrangement that ensures scrap tires are not discarded and are handled as valuable commodities through arrival at the combustion facility. This can include tires that were not abandoned and were received from the general public at collection program events.


*Generating facility* means all contiguous property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the non-hazardous secondary material generator.


*Ingredient* means a non-hazardous secondary material that is a component in a compound, process or product.


*Non-hazardous secondary material* means a secondary material that, when discarded, would not be identified as a hazardous waste under Part 261 of this chapter.


*Paper recycling residuals* means the secondary material generated from the recycling of paper, paperboard and corrugated containers composed primarily of fibers that are too small or weak to be used to make new paper and paperboard products. Secondary material from paper recycling processes with a heating value below 6,300 Btu/lb on a dry basis due to excessive non-fiber material content (including polystyrene foam, polyethylene film, other plastics, waxes, adhesives, dyes and inks, clays, starches and other coating and filler material) are not paper recycling residuals for the purposes of this definition.




*Person* is defined as an individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, Federal agency, corporation (including government corporation), partnership, association, State, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body.


*Power producer* means a boiler unit producing electricity for sale to the grid. The term does not include units meeting the definition of electricity generating unit under 40 CFR 63.10042.


*Processing* means any operations that transform discarded non-hazardous secondary material into a non-waste fuel or non-waste ingredient product. Processing includes, but is not limited to, operations necessary to: Remove or destroy contaminants; significantly improve the fuel characteristics of the material, e.g., sizing or drying the material in combination with other operations; chemically improve the as-fired energy content; or improve the ingredient characteristics. Minimal operations that result only in modifying the size of the material by shredding do not constitute processing for purposes of this definition.


*Resinated wood* means wood products (containing binders and adhesives) produced by primary and secondary wood products manufacturing. Resinated wood includes residues from the manufacture and use of resinated wood, including materials such as board trim, sander dust, panel trim, and off-specification resinated wood products that do not meet a manufacturing quality or standard.


*Secondary material* means any material that is not the primary product of a manufacturing or commercial process, and can include post-consumer material, off-specification commercial chemical products or manufacturing chemical intermediates, post-industrial material, and scrap.


*Solid waste* means the term solid waste as defined in 40 CFR 258.2.


*Traditional fuels* means materials that are produced as fuels and are unused products that have not been discarded and therefore, are not solid wastes, including: (1) Fuels that have been historically managed as valuable fuel products rather than being managed as waste materials, including fossil fuels (e.g., coal, oil and natural gas), their derivatives (e.g., petroleum coke, bituminous coke, coal tar oil, refinery gas, synthetic fuel, heavy recycle, asphalts, blast furnace gas, recovered gaseous butane, and coke oven gas) and cellulosic biomass (virgin wood); and (2) alternative fuels developed from virgin materials that can now be used as fuel products, including used oil which meets the specifications outlined in 40 CFR 279.11, currently mined coal refuse that previously had not been usable as coal, and clean cellulosic biomass. These fuels are not secondary materials or solid wastes unless discarded.


*Within control of the generator* means that the non-hazardous secondary material is generated and burned in combustion units at the generating facility; or that such material is generated and burned in combustion units at different facilities, provided the facility combusting the non-hazardous secondary material is controlled by the generator; or both the generating facility and the facility combusting the non-hazardous secondary material are under the control of the same person as defined in this section.



---

[N] [76 FR 15549, Mar. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 9211, Feb. 7, 2013; 81 FR 6742, Feb. 8, 2016; 83 FR 5340, Feb. 7, 2018; 88 FR 71775, Oct. 18, 2023]




