# § 2635.402   Disqualifying financial interests.

(a) *Statutory prohibition.* An employee is prohibited by criminal statute, 18 U.S.C. 208(a), from participating personally and substantially in an official capacity in any particular matter in which, to the employee's knowledge, the employee or any person whose interests are imputed to the employee under this statute has a financial interest, if the particular matter will have a direct and predictable effect on that interest.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Direct and predictable effect.* (i) A particular matter will have a direct effect on a financial interest if there is a close causal link between any decision or action to be taken in the matter and any expected effect of the matter on the financial interest. An effect may be direct even though it does not occur immediately. A particular matter will not have a direct effect on a financial interest, however, if the chain of causation is attenuated or is contingent upon the occurrence of events that are speculative or that are independent of, and unrelated to, the matter. A particular matter that has an effect on a financial interest only as a consequence of its effects on the general economy does not have a direct effect within the meaning of this subpart.


(ii) A particular matter will have a predictable effect if there is a real, as opposed to a speculative possibility that the matter will affect the financial interest. It is not necessary, however, that the magnitude of the gain or loss be known, and the dollar amount of the gain or loss is immaterial.


(2) *Imputed interests.* For purposes of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) and this subpart, the financial interests of the following persons will require the recusal of an employee to the same extent as if they were the employee's own interests:


(i) The employee's spouse;


(ii) The employee's minor child;


(iii) The employee's general partner;


(iv) An organization or entity which the employee serves as officer, director, trustee, general partner, or employee; and


(v) A person with whom the employee is negotiating for or has an arrangement concerning prospective employment. (Employees who are seeking other employment should refer to and comply with the standards in subpart F of this part.)




(3) *Particular matter.* The term particular matter encompasses only matters that involve deliberation, decision, or action that is focused upon the interests of specific persons, or a discrete and identifiable class of persons. Such a matter is covered by this subpart even if it does not involve formal parties and may include governmental action such as legislation or policy-making that is narrowly focused on the interests of such a discrete and identifiable class of persons. The term particular matter, however, does not extend to the consideration or adoption of broad policy options that are directed to the interests of a large and diverse group of persons. The particular matters covered by this subpart include a judicial or other proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other determination, contract, claim, controversy, charge, accusation, or arrest.








(4) *Personal and substantial.* To participate personally means to participate directly. It includes the direct and active supervision of the participation of a subordinate in the matter. To participate substantially means that the employee's involvement is of significance to the matter. Participation may be substantial even though it is not determinative of the outcome of a particular matter. However, it requires more than official responsibility, knowledge, perfunctory involvement, or involvement on an administrative or peripheral issue. A finding of substantiality should be based not only on the effort devoted to a matter, but also on the importance of the effort. While a series of peripheral involvements may be insubstantial, the single act of approving or participating in a critical step may be substantial. Personal and substantial participation may occur when, for example, an employee participates through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, investigation, or the rendering of advice in a particular matter.


(c) *Recusal.* Unless the employee is authorized to participate in the particular matter by virtue of a waiver or exemption described in paragraph (d) of this section or because the interest has been divested in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section, an employee must recuse from participating in a particular matter in which, to the employee's knowledge, the employee or a person whose interests are imputed to the employee has a financial interest, if the particular matter will have a direct and predictable effect on that interest. Recusal is accomplished by not participating in the particular matter.


(1) *Notification.* Employees who become aware of the need to recuse from participating in a particular matter to which they have been assigned must take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that they do not participate in the matter. Appropriate oral or written notification of their recusal may be made to an agency ethics official, coworkers, or a supervisor to document and help effectuate the recusal. Public filers as defined in subpart F of this part must comply with additional notification requirements set forth in § 2635.607 regarding negotiations for or agreement of future employment or compensation.


(2) *Documentation.* Employees need not file written recusal statements unless they are required by part 2634 of this chapter to file written evidence of compliance with an ethics agreement with the Office of Government Ethics or a designated agency ethics official, or are specifically directed by an agency ethics official or the person responsible for their assignments to file written recusal statements. However, it is often prudent for employees to create a record of their actions by providing written notice to an agency ethics official, a supervisor, or other appropriate official. In addition, public filers as defined in subpart F of this part must comply with the documentation requirements set forth in § 2635.607 regarding negotiations for or agreement of future employment or compensation.


(d) *Waiver of or exemptions from recusal requirement.* An employee who would otherwise be required to recuse under 18 U.S.C. 208(a) may be permitted to participate in a particular matter if the financial interest that would otherwise require recusal is the subject of a regulatory exemption or individual waiver described in this paragraph (d), or results from certain Indian birthrights as described in 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(4).


(1) *Regulatory exemptions.* Under 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(2), regulatory exemptions of general applicability have been issued by the Office of Government Ethics, based on its determination that particular interests are too remote or too inconsequential to affect the integrity of the services of employees to whom those exemptions apply. See part 2640, subpart B of this chapter.


(2) *Individual waivers.* An individual waiver enabling the employee to participate in one or more particular matters may be issued under 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(1) if, in advance of the employee's participation:


(i) The employee:


(A) Advises the Government official responsible for the employee's appointment (or other Government official to whom authority to issue such a waiver for the employee has been delegated) about the nature and circumstances of the particular matter or matters; and


(B) Makes full disclosure to such official of the nature and extent of the relevant financial interest; and


(ii) Such official determines, in writing, that the employee's financial interest in the particular matter or matters is not so substantial as to be deemed likely to affect the integrity of the services which the Government may expect from such employee. See part 2640, subpart C of this chapter (providing additional guidance).


(3) *Federal advisory committee member waivers.* An individual waiver may be issued under 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(3) to a special Government employee serving on, or under consideration for appointment to, an advisory committee within the meaning of the Federal Advisory Committee Act if the Government official responsible for the employee's appointment (or other Government official to whom authority to issue such a waiver for the employee has been delegated):


(i) Reviews the financial disclosure report filed by the special Government employee pursuant to 5 U.S.C. chapter 131; and


(ii) Certifies in writing that the need for the individual's services outweighs the potential for a conflict of interest created by the relevant financial interest. See part 2640, subpart C, of this chapter (providing additional guidance).


(4) *Consultation and notification regarding waivers.* When practicable, an official is required to consult formally or informally with the Office of Government Ethics prior to granting a waiver referred to in paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section. A copy of each such waiver is to be forwarded to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics.


(e) *Divestiture of a disqualifying financial interest.* Upon sale or other divestiture of the asset or other interest that would otherwise require the employee to recuse from participating in a particular matter, 18 U.S.C. 208(a) and paragraph (c) of this section will no longer prohibit the employee's participation in the matter.


(1) *Voluntary divestiture.* An employee who would otherwise be required to recuse from participating in a particular matter may voluntarily sell or otherwise divest the interest that create the recusal requirement.


(2) *Directed divestiture.* An employee may be required to sell or otherwise divest the disqualifying financial interest if the continued holding of that interest is prohibited by statute or by agency supplemental regulation issued in accordance with § 2635.403(a), or if the agency determines in accordance with § 2635.403(b) that a substantial conflict exists between the financial interest and the employee's duties or accomplishment of the agency's mission.


(3) *Eligibility for special tax treatment.* An employee who is directed to divest an interest may be eligible to defer the tax consequences of divestiture under part 2634, subpart J, of this chapter. An employee who divests before obtaining a certificate of divestiture will not be eligible for this special tax treatment.


(f) *Official duties that give rise to potential conflicts.* When their official duties create a substantial likelihood that they may be assigned to a particular matter from which they would be required to recuse, employees should advise their supervisors or other persons responsible for their assignments of that potential so that conflicting assignments can be avoided, consistent with the agency's needs.






