# ยง 4287.170   Bankruptcy.

(a) *Lender's responsibilities.* It is the lender's responsibility to protect the guaranteed loan and all of the collateral securing it in bankruptcy proceedings, including taking actions that result in greater recoveries and not taking actions that would not likely be cost-effective. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Monitoring confirmed bankruptcy plans to determine borrower compliance, and, if the borrower fails to comply, seeking a dismissal of the bankruptcy plan;


(2) Filing a proof of claim, where necessary, and all the necessary papers and pleadings concerning the case;


(3) Attending and, where necessary, participating in meetings of the creditors and all court proceedings;


(4) Requesting modifications of any bankruptcy plan whenever it appears that additional recoveries are likely; and


(5) Keeping the Agency adequately and regularly informed in writing of all aspects of the proceedings.


(6) The lender must submit a default status report when the borrower defaults and every 30 days until the default is resolved or a final loss claim is paid by the Agency. The default status report will be used to inform the Agency of the bankruptcy filing, the plan confirmation date, when the plan is complete, and when the borrower is not in compliance with the plan.


(7) With written Agency consent, the lender and Agency will equally share the cost of any independent appraisal fee to protect the guaranteed loan in any bankruptcy proceedings.


(b) *Reports of loss during bankruptcy.* In bankruptcy proceedings, payment of loss claims will be made as provided in this section. Attorney/legal fees and protective advances as a result of a bankruptcy are only recoverable from liquidation proceeds.


(1) *Estimated loss payments.* (i) If a borrower has filed for bankruptcy and all or a portion of the debt has been discharged, the lender must request an estimated loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court. Only one estimated loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. All subsequent claims of the lender during bankruptcy will be considered revisions to the initial estimated loss. A revised estimated loss payment may be processed by the Agency, at its option, in accordance with any court-approved changes in the bankruptcy plan. Once the bankruptcy plan has been completed, the lender is responsible for submitting the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the estimated loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest and to reimburse the lender for any court-ordered interest-rate reduction under the terms of the bankruptcy plan.


(ii) The lender must use Form RD 449-30 to request an estimated loss payment and to revise any estimated loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy plan. The estimated loss claim, as well as any revisions to this claim, must be accompanied by documentation to support the claim.


(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, the lender must complete Form RD 1980-44 and forward it to the Agency.


(iv) Upon completion of the bankruptcy plan, the lender must provide the Agency with the documentation necessary to determine whether the estimated loss paid equals the actual loss sustained. If the actual loss sustained as a result of the bankruptcy is less than the estimated loss, the lender must reimburse the Agency for the overpayment plus interest at the note rate from the date of payment of the estimated loss. If the actual loss is greater than the estimated loss payment, the lender must submit a revised estimated loss claim in order to obtain payment of the additional amount owed by the Agency to the lender.


(2) *Bankruptcy loss payments.* (i) The lender must request a bankruptcy loss payment of the guaranteed portion of the accrued interest and principal discharged by the court for all bankruptcies when all or a portion of the debt has been discharged. Unless a court approves a subsequent change to the bankruptcy plan that is adverse to the lender, only one bankruptcy loss payment is allowed during the bankruptcy. Once the court has discharged all or part of the guaranteed loan and any appeal period has run, the lender must submit the documentation necessary for the Agency to review and adjust the bankruptcy loss claim to reflect any actual discharge of principal and interest.


(ii) The lender must use Form RD 449-30 to request a bankruptcy loss payment and to revise any bankruptcy loss payments during the course of the bankruptcy. The lender must include with the bankruptcy loss claim documentation to support the claim, as well as any revisions to this claim.


(iii) Upon completion of a bankruptcy plan, restructure, or liquidation, the lender must either complete Form RD 1980-44 and forward it to the Agency or enter the data directly into LINC.


(iv) If an estimated loss claim is paid during a bankruptcy and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss is not necessary.


(3) *Interest rate losses as a result of bankruptcy reorganization.* (i) For guaranteed loans closed prior to August 2, 2016:


(A) Interest losses sustained during the period of the bankruptcy plan will be processed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(B) Interest losses sustained after the bankruptcy plan is confirmed will be processed annually when the lender sustains a loss as a result of a permanent interest rate reduction that extends beyond the period of the bankruptcy plan.


(C) If a bankruptcy loss claim is paid during the operation of the bankruptcy plan and the borrower repays in full the remaining balance without an additional loss sustained by the lender, a final report of loss is not necessary.


(ii) For guaranteed loans closed on or after August 2, 2016, the Agency will not compensate the lender for any difference in the interest rate specified in the Loan Note Guarantee and the rate of interest specified in the bankruptcy plan.


(4) *Final bankruptcy loss payments.* The Agency will process final bankruptcy loss payments when the loan is fully liquidated.


(5) *Application of loss claim payments.* The lender must apply estimated loss payments first to the unsecured principal of the guaranteed portion of the debt and then to the unsecured interest of the guaranteed portion of the debt. In the event a court attempts to direct the payments to be applied in a different manner, the lender must immediately notify the Agency in writing.


(6) *Protective advances.* If approved protective advances, as authorized by ยง 4287.156, were incurred in connection with the initiation of liquidation action and were required to provide repairs, insurance, etc., to protect the collateral as a result of delays in the case of failure of the borrower to maintain the security prior to the borrower having filed bankruptcy, the protective advances together with accrued interest, are payable under the guarantee in the final loss claim.


(c) *Expenses during bankruptcy proceedings.* (1) Under no circumstances will the guarantee cover liquidation expenses in excess of liquidation proceeds.


(2) Expenses, such as reasonable attorney/legal fees and the cost of appraisals incurred by the lender as a direct result of the borrower's bankruptcy filing, are considered liquidation expenses. Liquidation expenses must be reasonable, customary, and provide a demonstrated economic benefit to the lender and the Agency. Lender's in-house expenses, which are those expenses that would normally be incurred for administration of the loan, including in-house lawyers, are not covered by the guarantee. Liquidation expenses must be deducted from collateral sale proceeds. The lender and Agency will share liquidation expenses equally. To accomplish this, the lender will deduct 50 percent of the liquidation expenses from the collateral sale proceeds.


(3) When a bankruptcy proceeding results in a liquidation of the borrower by a bankruptcy trustee, expenses will be handled as directed by the court, and the lender cannot claim liquidation expenses for the sale of the assets.


(4) If the property is abandoned by the bankruptcy trustee and any relief from the stay has been obtained, the lender will conduct the liquidation in accordance with ยง 4287.157.


(5) Proceeds received from the partial sale of collateral during bankruptcy may be used by the lender to pay reasonable costs associated with the partial sale, such as freight, labor, and sales commissions. Reasonable use of proceeds for this purpose must be documented with the final loss claim.


(6) Reasonable and customary liquidation expenses in bankruptcy may be deducted from liquidation proceeds of collateral.



---

[N] [81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 54477, Aug. 16, 2016]




