# ยง 60.1355   What records must I keep for operator training and certification?

You must keep records of six items: 


(a) *Records of provisional certifications.* Include three items: 


(1) For your municipal waste combustion plant, names of the chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who are provisionally certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program. 


(2) Dates of the initial provisional certifications. 


(3) Documentation showing current provisional certifications. 


(b) *Records of full certifications.* Include three items: 


(1) For your municipal waste combustion plant, names of the chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who are fully certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program. 


(2) Dates of initial and renewal full certifications. 


(3) Documentation showing current full certifications. 


(c) *Records showing completion of the operator training course.* Include three items: 


(1) For your municipal waste combustion plant, names of the chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have completed the EPA or State municipal waste combustion operator training course. 


(2) Dates of completion of the operator training course. 


(3) Documentation showing completion of the operator training course. 


(d) *Records of reviews for plant-specific operating manuals.* Include three items: 


(1) Names of persons who have reviewed the operating manual. 


(2) Date of the initial review. 


(3) Dates of subsequent annual reviews. 


(e) *Records of when a certified operator is temporarily offsite.* Include two main items: 


(1) If the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are offsite for more than 12 hours, but for 2 weeks or less, and no other certified operator is onsite, record the dates that the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor were offsite. 


(2) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are offsite for more than 2 weeks and no other certified operator is onsite, keep records of four items: 


(i) Your notice that all certified persons are offsite. 


(ii) The conditions that cause those people to be offsite. 


(iii) The corrective actions you are taking to ensure a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is onsite.


(iv) Copies of the written reports submitted every 4 weeks that summarize the actions taken to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor will be onsite. 


(f) *Records of calendar dates.* Include the calendar date on each record. 




