# § 1070.14   Requests for CFPB records.

(a) *In general.* Subject to the application of the FOIA exemptions and exclusions (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)), the CFPB shall promptly make its records available to any person pursuant to a request that conforms to the rules and procedures of this section.


(b) *Form of request.* A request for records of the CFPB shall be made in writing as follows:


(1) If a request is submitted by mail or delivery service, it shall be addressed to the Chief FOIA Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. The request shall be labeled “Freedom of Information Act Request.”


(2) If a request is submitted by electronic means, it shall be submitted as set forth on the CFPB's website, *http://www.consumerfinance.gov.* The request shall be labeled “Freedom of Information Act Request.”


(c) *Content of request.* (1) In order to ensure the CFPB's ability to respond in a timely manner, a FOIA request must describe the records that the requester seeks in sufficient detail to enable CFPB personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, the request should include specific information about each record sought, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. If known, the requester should include any file designations or descriptions for the records requested. The more specific the requester is about the records or type of records requested, the more likely the CFPB will be able to locate those records in response to the request;


(2) In order to ensure the CFPB's ability to communicate effectively with the requester, a request should include contact information for the requester, including the name of the requester and, to the extent available, a mailing address, telephone number, and email address at which the CFPB may contact the requester regarding the request;


(3) The request should state whether the requester wishes to receive the records in a specific format;


(4) A requester should indicate in the request whether the requester is a commercial user, an educational institution, non-commercial scientific institution, representative of the news media, or “other” requester, as those terms are defined in § 1070.22(b), and the basis for claiming that fee category;


(5) If a requester seeks a waiver or reduction of fees associated with processing a request, then the request shall include a statement to that effect as is required by § 1070.22(e); and


(6) If a requester seeks expedited processing of a request, then the request must include a statement to that effect as is required by § 1070.17.


(d) *Perfected requests; effect of request deficiencies.* For purposes of computing its deadline to respond to a request, the CFPB will deem itself to have received a request only if, and on the date that, it receives a request that contains substantially all of the information required by and that otherwise conforms with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The CFPB need not accept a request, process a request, or be bound by any deadlines in this subpart for processing a request that fails to conform, in any material respect, to the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. If a request is deficient in any material respect, then the CFPB may return it to the requester and if it does so, it shall advise the requester in what respect the request is deficient, and what additional information is needed to respond to the request. The requester may then amend or resubmit the request. A determination by the CFPB that a request is deficient in any respect is not a denial of a request for records and such determinations are not subject to appeal. If a requester fails to respond to a CFPB notification that a request is deficient within thirty (30) days of the CFPB's notification, the CFPB will deem the request withdrawn.


(e) *Requests by an individual for CFPB records pertaining to that individual.* An individual who wishes to inspect or obtain copies of records of the Bureau that pertain to that individual shall provide identity verification in accordance with § 1070.53(c).


(f) *Requests for CFPB records pertaining to another individual.* Where a request for records pertains to a third party, a requester may receive greater access by submitting either a notarized authorization signed by that individual or a declaration by that individual made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or submits proof that the individual is deceased (*e.g.,* a copy of a death certificate or an obituary). The CFPB may require a requester to supply additional information if necessary in order to verify that a particular individual has consented to disclosure.


(g) *Assistance from FOIA Public Liaison.* Requesters may contact the CFPB's FOIA Public Liaison to seek assistance in determining the appropriate fee category, formatting of requests, or resolving any problems that arise prior to submitting a request or during the processing of a request. The FOIA Public Liaison can be contacted at the telephone number listed on the CFPB's website, *http://www.consumerfinance.gov.*

