# § 63.10007   What methods and other procedures must I use for the performance tests?

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, you must conduct all required performance tests according to § 63.7(d), (e), (f), and (h). You must also develop a site-specific test plan according to the requirements in § 63.7(c).


(1) If you use CEMS (Hg, HCl, SO_2_, or other) to determine compliance with a 30- (or, if applicable, 90-) boiler operating day rolling average emission limit, you must collect quality- assured CEMS data for all unit operating conditions, including startup and shutdown (see § 63.10011(g) and Table 3 to this subpart), except as otherwise provided in § 63.10020(b). Emission rates determined during startup periods and shutdown periods (as defined in § 63.10042) are not to be included in the compliance determinations, except as otherwise provided in §§ 63.10000(c)(1)(vi)(B) and 63.10005(a)(2)(iii).


(2) If you conduct performance testing with test methods in lieu of continuous monitoring, operate the unit at maximum normal operating load conditions during each periodic (e.g., quarterly) performance test. Maximum normal operating load will be generally between 90 and 110 percent of design capacity but should be representative of site specific normal operations during each test run.


(3) For establishing operating limits with particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS) to demonstrate compliance with a PM or non-Hg metals emissions limit (the use of PM CPMS is only allowed before July 6, 2027 with the exception of IGCC units), operate the unit at maximum normal operating load conditions during the performance test period. Maximum normal operating load will be generally between 90 and 110 percent of design capacity but should be representative of site specific normal operations during each test run.




(b) You must conduct each performance test (including traditional 3-run stack tests, 30-boiler operating day tests based on CEMS data (or sorbent trap monitoring system data), and 30-boiler operating day Hg emission tests for LEE qualification) according to the requirements in Table 5 to this subpart.


(c) If you choose the filterable PM method to comply with the PM emission limit and demonstrate continuous performance using a PM CPMS as provided for in § 63.10000(c), you must also establish an operating limit according to § 63.10011(b), § 63.10023, and Tables 4 and 6 to this subpart. Should you desire to have operating limits that correspond to loads other than maximum normal operating load, you must conduct testing at those other loads to determine the additional operating limits. On and after July 6, 2027, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable filterable PM emission standard through the use of a PM CEMS (with the exception that IGCC units are not required to use PM CEMS and may continue to use PM CPMS). Alternatively, you may demonstrate continuous compliance with the non-Hg metals emission standard if you request and receive approval for the use of a HAP metals CMS under § 63.7(f).




(d) Except for a 30-boiler operating day performance test based on CEMS (or sorbent trap monitoring system) data, where the concept of test runs does not apply, you must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each performance test, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must comply with the minimum applicable sampling time or volume specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. Sections 63.10005(d) and (h), respectively, provide special instructions for conducting performance tests based on CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring systems, and for conducting emission tests for LEE qualification.


(e) To use the results of performance testing to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, proceed as follows:


(1) Except for a 30-boiler operating day performance test based on CEMS (or sorbent trap monitoring system) data, if measurement results for any pollutant are reported as below the method detection level (e.g., laboratory analytical results for one or more sample components are below the method defined analytical detection level), you must use the method detection level as the measured emissions level for that pollutant in calculating compliance. The measured result for a multiple component analysis (e.g., analytical values for multiple Method 29 fractions both for individual HAP metals and for total HAP metals) may include a combination of method detection level data and analytical data reported above the method detection level.


(2) If the limits are expressed in lb/MMBtu or lb/TBtu, you must use the F-factor methodology and equations in sections 12.2 and 12.3 of EPA Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. In cases where an appropriate F-factor is not listed in Table 19-2 of Method 19, you may use F-factors from Table 1 in section 3.3.5 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, or F-factors derived using the procedures in section 3.3.6 of appendix to part 75 of this chapter. Use the following factors to convert the pollutant concentrations measured during the initial performance tests to units of lb/scf, for use in the applicable Method 19 equations:


(i) Multiply SO_2_ ppm by 1.66 × 10_−7_;


(ii) Multiply HCl ppm by 9.43 × 10_−8_;


(iii) Multiply HF ppm by 5.18 × 10_−8_;


(iv) Multiply HAP metals concentrations (mg/dscm) by 6.24 × 10_−8_; and


(v) Multiply Hg concentrations (µg/scm) by 6.24 × 10_−11_.


(3) To determine compliance with emission limits expressed in lb/MWh or lb/GWh, you must first calculate the pollutant mass emission rate during the performance test, in units of lb/h. For Hg, if a CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is used, use Equation A-2 or A-3 in appendix A to this subpart (as applicable). In all other cases, use an equation that has the general form of Equation A-2 or A-3, replacing the value of K with 1.66 × 10_−7_ lb/scf-ppm for SO_2_, 9.43 × 10_−8_ lb/scf-ppm for HCl (if an HCl CEMS is used), 5.18 × 10_−8_ lb/scf-ppm for HF (if an HF CEMS is used), or 6.24 × 10_−8_ lb-scm/mg-scf for HAP metals and for HCl and HF (when performance stack testing is used), and defining C_h_ as the average SO_2_, HCl, or HF concentration in ppm, or the average HAP metals concentration in mg/dscm. This calculation requires stack gas volumetric flow rate (scfh) and (in some cases) moisture content data (see §§ 63.10005(h)(3) and 63.10010). Then, if the applicable emission limit is in units of lb/GWh, use Equation A-4 in appendix A to this subpart to calculate the pollutant emission rate in lb/GWh. In this calculation, define (M)_h_ as the calculated pollutant mass emission rate for the performance test (lb/h), and define (MW)_h_ as the average electrical load during the performance test (megawatts). If the applicable emission limit is in lb/MWh rather than lb/GWh, omit the 10
3 term from Equation A-4 to determine the pollutant emission rate in lb/MWh.


(f) If you elect to (or are required to) use CEMS to continuously monitor Hg, HCl, HF, SO_2_, or PM emissions (or, if applicable, sorbent trap monitoring systems to continuously collect Hg emissions data), the following default values are available for use in the emission rate calculations during startup periods or shutdown periods (as defined in § 63.10042). For the purposes of this subpart, these default values are not considered to be substitute data.


(1) *Diluent cap values.* If you use CEMS (or, if applicable, sorbent trap monitoring systems) to comply with a heat input-based emission rate limit, you may use the following diluent cap values for a startup or shutdown hour in which the measured CO_2_ concentration is below the cap value or the measured O_2_ concentration is above the cap value:


(i) For an IGCC EGU, you may use 1% for CO_2_ or 19% for O_2_.


(ii) For all other EGUs, you may use 5% for CO_2_ or 14% for O_2_.


(2) *Default gross output.* If you use CEMS to continuously monitor Hg, HCl, HF, SO_2_, or PM emissions (or, if applicable, sorbent trap monitoring systems to continuously collect Hg emissions data), the following default value is available for use in the emission rate calculations during startup periods or shutdown periods (as defined in § 63.10042). For the purposes of this subpart, this default value is not considered to be substitute data. For a startup or shutdown hour in which there is heat input to an affected EGU but zero gross output, you must calculate the pollutant emission rate using a value equivalent to 5% of the maximum sustainable gross output, expressed in megawatts, as defined in section 6.5.2.1(a)(1) of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter. This default gross output is either the nameplate capacity of the EGU or the highest gross output observed in at least four representative quarters of EGU operation. For a monitored common stack, the default gross output is used only when all EGUs are operating (*i.e.,* combusting fuel) are in startup or shutdown mode, and have zero electrical generation. Under those conditions, a default gross output equal to 5% of the combined maximum sustainable gross output of the EGUs that are operating but have a total of zero gross output must be used to calculate the hourly gross output-based pollutant emissions rate.


(g) Upon request, you shall make available to the EPA Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine whether the performance tests have been done according to the requirements of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23403, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24085, Apr. 24, 2013; 79 FR 68789, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20182, Apr. 6, 2016; 89 FR 38565, May 7, 2024]




