# ยง 77.216   Water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures; general.

(a) Plans for the design, construction, and maintenance of structures which impound water, sediment, or slurry shall be required if such an existing or proposed impounding structure can: 


(1) Impound water, sediment, or slurry to an elevation of five feet or more above the upstream toe of the structure and can have a storage volume of 20 acre-feet or more; or 


(2) Impound water, sediment, or slurry to an elevation of 20 feet or more above the upstream toe of the structure; or 


(3) As determined by the District Manager, present a hazard to coal miners. 


(b) Plans for the design and construction of all new water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures which meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted in triplicate to and be approved by the District Manager prior to the beginning of any work associated with construction of the impounding structure. 


(c) Before May 1, 1976, a plan for the continued use of an existing water, sediment, or slurry impoundment and impounding structure which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted in triplicate to the District Manager for approval. 


(d) The design, construction, and maintenance of all water, sediment, or slurry impoundments and impounding structures which meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be implemented in accordance with the plan approved by the District Manager. 


(e) All fires in impounding structures shall be extinguished, and the method used shall be in accordance with a plan approved by the District Manager. The plan shall contain as a minimum, provisions to ensure that only those persons authorized by the operator, and who have an understanding of the procedures to be used, shall be involved in the extinguishing operation. 



---

[N] [40 FR 41776, Sept. 9, 1975] 




