# ยง 47.14   Prehearing conferences.

(a) In any proceeding in which it appears that a conference will expedite the proceeding, the examiner, at any time prior to or during the course of the oral hearing, may request the parties or their counsel to appear at a conference before the examiner to consider:


(1) The simplification of the issues;


(2) The necessity or the desirability of amendments to the pleadings;


(3) The possibility of obtaining stipulations of fact and of documents which will avoid unnecessary proof;


(4) The limitation of the number of expert or other witnesses; or


(5) Such other matters as may expedite and aid in the disposition of the proceeding.


(b) No transcript or recording of the conference shall be made. If the conference is conducted by correspondence, the examiner shall forward copies of letters and documents to the parties as circumstances require. The correspondence in connection with a conference shall not be part of the record. The examiner shall prepare and file for the record a written summary of the action agreed upon or taken at the conference, which shall incorporate any written stipulations or agreements made by the parties at the conference or as a result of the conference.


(c) *Manner of the Conference.* (1) The conference shall be conducted by telephone or correspondence unless the examiner determines that conducting the conference by audio-visual telecommunication:


(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;


(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the conference; or


(iii) Would cost less than conducting the conference by telephone or correspondence. If the examiner determines that a conference conducted by audio-visual telecommunication would measurably increase the United States Department of Agriculture's cost of conducting the conference, the conference shall be conducted by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the conference, by telephone, or by correspondence.


(2) If the conference is not conducted by telephone or correspondence, the conference shall be conducted by audio-visual telecommunication unless the examiner determines that conducting the conference by personal attendance of any individual who is expected to participate in the conference:


(i) Is necessary to prevent prejudice to a party;


(ii) Is necessary because of a disability of any individual expected to participate in the conference; or


(iii) Would cost less than conducting the conference by audio-visual telecommunication.



---

[N] [60 FR 8460, Feb. 14, 1995]




