# § 270.51   Continuation of expiring permits.

(a) *EPA permits.* When EPA is the permit-issuing authority, the conditions of an expired permit continue in force under 5 U.S.C. 558(c) until the effective date of a new permit (see § 124.15) if:


(1) The permittee has submitted a timely application under § 270.14 and the applicable sections in §§ 270.15 through 270.29 which is a complete (under § 270.10(c)) application for a new permit; and 


(2) The Regional Administrator through no fault of the permittee, does not issue a new permit with an effective date under § 124.15 on or before the expiration date of the previous permit (for example, when issuance is impracticable due to time or resource constraints).


(b) *Effect.* Permits continued under this section remain fully effective and enforceable.


(c) *Enforcement.* When the permittee is not in compliance with the conditions of the expiring or expired permit, the Regional Administrator may choose to do any or all of the following:


(1) Initiate enforcement action based upon the permit which has been continued;


(2) Issue a notice of intent to deny the new permit under § 124.6. If the permit is denied, the owner or operator would then be required to cease the activities authorized by the continued permit or be subject to enforcement action for operating without a permit;


(3) Issue a new permit under part 124 with appropriate conditions; or


(4) Take other actions authorized by these regulations.


(d) *State continuation.* In a State with a hazardous waste program authorized under 40 CFR part 271, if a permittee has submitted a timely and complete application under applicable State law and regulations, the terms and conditions of an EPA-issued RCRA permit continue in force beyond the expiration date of the permit, but only until the effective date of the State's issuance or denial of a State RCRA permit.


(e) *Standardized permits.* (1) The conditions of your expired standardized permit continue until the effective date of your new permit (see 40 CFR 124.15) if all of the following are true:


(i) If EPA is the permit-issuing authority.


(ii) If you submit a timely and complete Notice of Intent under 40 CFR 124.202(b) requesting coverage under a RCRA standardized permit; and


(iii) If the Director, through no fault on your part, does not issue your permit before your previous permit expires (for example, where it is impractical to make the permit effective by that date because of time or resource constraints).


(2) In some cases, the Director may notify you that you are not eligible for a standardized permit (see 40 CFR 124.206). In those cases, the conditions of your expired permit will continue if you submit the information specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section (that is, a complete application for a new permit) within 60 days after you receive our notification that you are not eligible for a standardized permit.



---

[N] [48 FR 14228, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 39622, Sept. 1, 1983; 70 FR 53475, Sept. 8, 2005]




