# § 515.545   Transactions related to information and informational materials.

(a) Transactions relating to the creation, dissemination, artistic or other substantive alteration, or enhancement of informational materials are authorized, including employment of Cuban nationals and remittance of royalties or other payments in connection with such transactions. This section authorizes marketing related to the dissemination of such informational materials but does not authorize other marketing or business consulting services.


(b) *General license.* (1) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to the exportation, importation, or transmission of information or informational materials as defined in § 515.332 are authorized, provided that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.


(2) The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such additional transactions as are directly incident to professional media or artistic productions of information or informational materials for exportation, importation, or transmission, including the filming or production of media programs (such as movies and television programs), the recording of music, and the creation of artworks in Cuba, are authorized, provided that the traveler is regularly employed in or has demonstrated professional experience in a field relevant to such professional media or artistic productions, and that the traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.


(c) *Certain direct financial transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209.


(d) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (b) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.


(e) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to information and informational materials that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [54 FR 5234, Feb. 2, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 39257, Aug. 2, 1995; 64 FR 25813, May 13, 1999; 69 FR 75469, Dec. 17, 2004; 74 FR 46006, Sept. 8, 2009; 80 FR 2294, Jan. 16, 2015; 81 FR 4585, Jan. 27, 2016; 82 FR 52000, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60071, Sept. 24, 2020]




