# ยง 2556.320   What benefits may a VISTA receive during VISTA service?

(a) A VISTA receives a living allowance computed on a daily rate. Living allowances vary according to the local cost of living in the project area where the VISTA is assigned.


(b) Subject to a maximum amount, and at the discretion and upon approval of AmeriCorps, a VISTA may receive payment for settling-in expenses, as determined by AmeriCorps.


(c) Subject to a maximum amount, and at the discretion of AmeriCorps, in the event of an emergency (such as theft, fire loss, or special clothing necessitated by severe climate), a VISTA may receive an emergency expense payment in order to resume VISTA service activities, as determined and approved by AmeriCorps.


(d) Subject to a maximum amount, and at the discretion of AmeriCorps, a VISTA may receive a relocation travel allowance to offset the cost of relocating from the home of record to the project site, as determined by AmeriCorps.


(e) To the extent eligible, a VISTA may receive health care through a health benefits program provided by AmeriCorps.


(f) To the extent eligible, a VISTA may receive childcare support through a childcare program provided by AmeriCorps.


(g) To the extent eligible, a VISTA may elect to receive a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award, and upon successful completion of service, receive that award in an amount prescribed by AmeriCorps, in accordance with the applicable provisions of 45 CFR parts 2526, 2527, and 25285.


(1) A VISTA is eligible to elect to receive an education award if they are a citizen, national, or lawful permanent resident alien of the United States.


(2) A VISTA who elects an education award is eligible to request forbearance of a student loan from their loan-holder. A VISTA who elects an education award may, upon successful completion of service, be eligible to receive up to 100 percent of the interest accrued on a qualified student loan, consistent with the applicable provisions of 45 CFR part 2529.


(3) A VISTA is not eligible to receive more than an amount equal to the aggregate value of two full-time education awards in their lifetime.


(4) Other than for a summer associate, the amount of an education award for the successful completion of a VISTA term of service is equal to the maximum amount of a Federal Pell Grant under Section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a) that a student eligible for such grant may receive in the aggregate for the fiscal year in which the VISTA has enrolled in the VISTA program.


(h) A VISTA who does not elect to receive a Segal AmeriCorps Education Award upon successful completion of service receives an end-of-service stipend in an amount prescribed by AmeriCorps.


(i) In the event that a VISTA does not successfully complete a full term of service, they may not receive a pro-rated Segal AmeriCorps Education Award or a pro-rated end-of-service stipend, except in cases where the appropriate VISTA Case Manager determines the VISTA did not successfully complete a full term of service because of a compelling personal circumstance. Examples of a compelling personal circumstance are: Serious medical condition or disability of a VISTA during VISTA service; critical illness or disability of a VISTA's immediate family member (spouse, domestic partner, parent, sibling, child, or guardian) if this event makes completing a term of service unreasonably difficult; or unusual conditions not attributable to the VISTA, such as natural disaster, strike, or premature closing of a project, that make completing a term of service unreasonably difficult or infeasible.


(j) In the event of a VISTA's death during service, their family or others that they named as beneficiary in accordance with section 5582 of title 5, United States Code will be paid a pro-rated end-of-service stipend for the period during which the VISTA served. If the VISTA had elected to receive the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award for successful completion of a full term of VISTA service, AmeriCorps will, prior to payment to the named beneficiary, convert that election to an end-of-service stipend and pay the VISTA's family, or others that they named as beneficiary, a pro-rated end-of-service stipend accordingly.






