# § 405.932   Right to appeal a denial of Part A coverage resulting from a change in patient status.

(a) *Filing an appeal request related to a change in patient status which resulted in the denial of Part A coverage.* (1) Only an eligible party, the party's appointed representative, or an authorized representative of an eligible party may request an appeal at any level of the appeals process under §§ 405.931 through 405.938.


(2) To initiate an appeal under §§ 405.931 through 405.938, an eligible party, the party's appointed representative, or an authorized representative of an eligible party must meet the following requirements:


(i) Submit a request for an appeal in writing to the eligibility contractor.


(ii) The request must be received by the eligibility contractor no later than 365 calendar days after the implementation date of the final rule. The eligibility contractor denies the written request if it is not received by the applicable filing timeframe under paragraph (d)(3) of this section, unless the eligible party established good cause for late submission as specified in § 405.942(b)(2) and (3).


(3) If an eligible party (or the party's representative) misfiles a request for appeal with a contractor or government entity other than the eligibility contractor, then for the purpose of determining timeliness of the request for appeal, the date the misfiled request was received by the contractor or government agency is considered the date of receipt. The misfiled request and all documentation must be forwarded to the eligibility contractor within 30 calendar days of receipt, or as soon as practicable.


(b) *Content of the appeal request.* (1) The written request filed by an eligible party, the party's appointed representative, or an authorized representative of an eligible party may be made on a model CMS form. If the model form is not used, to be valid, the written request must include all of the following identifying information:


(i) Beneficiary name.


(ii) Beneficiary Medicare number (the number on the beneficiary's Medicare card).


(iii) Name of the hospital and dates of hospitalization.


(iv) Name of the SNF and the dates of stay (as applicable).


(2) If the appeal includes SNF services not covered by Medicare, the written request must also include an attestation to the out-of-pocket payment(s) made by the beneficiary for such SNF services and must include documentation of payments made to the SNF for such services.


(i) Payments for an eligible party's SNF services made by a third-party payer do not constitute out-of-pocket expenses or payment for an eligible party. If a third-party payer made payment for the eligible party's SNF services, then the services are excluded from consideration in the appeal.


(ii) Payments made for cost sharing (including, but not limited to, coinsurance and deductible) for SNF services covered by a third-party payer are not considered an out-of-pocket payment for the purposes of this provision.


(iii) Payments made by a family member (including payments made by an individual not biologically related to the beneficiary) for an eligible party's SNF services are considered an out-of-pocket payment for the eligible party.


(3) In the written request for an appeal, an eligible party (or their representative) may include an explanation of why the hospital admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage and should have been covered under the Part A hospital insurance benefit instead of under the Part B supplementary medical insurance benefit.


(c) *Evidence and other information to be submitted with the appeal request.* (1) Eligible parties (or their representatives) are encouraged to submit all available information and documentation, including medical records related to the hospital stay and SNF services, as applicable, at issue in the appeal with the written request for an appeal.


(2) If the eligibility contractor determines there is information missing from the request that is needed to establish the beneficiary's eligibility as a party under § 405.931(b) or satisfy other conditions for eligibility for an appeal, the eligibility contractor works with the appropriate MAC and attempts to obtain the information from the provider or the eligible party (or the party's representative) or both, as applicable. The eligibility contractor allows up to 120 calendar days for submission of missing information.


(3) If the necessary information cannot be obtained from either the provider or the eligible party (or the party's representative), the eligibility contractor makes an eligibility determination based on the information available.


(d) *Determining eligibility for an appeal.* (1)(i) The eligibility contractor reviews the information submitted with the appeal request and any additional information it obtains to determine if the individual submitting the appeal request is an eligible party and that the services previously furnished are eligible for an appeal under § 405.931.


(ii) The eligibility contractor mails or otherwise transmits the notice of its determination to the eligible party (or the party's representative) within 60 calendar days of receipt of the appeal request.


(iii) The time between the eligibility contractor's request for missing information and receipt of such information (or in the case of information that is requested but is not received, the time allowed by the contractor to submit the information) does not count toward the timeframe for issuing a notice to the eligible party (or the party's representative).


(2) If the eligibility contractor determines that the individual is an eligible party and the services previously furnished are eligible for an appeal, the eligibility contractor—


(i) Issues a notice of acceptance to the eligible party (or the party's representative), explaining that the appeal has been accepted for processing; and


(ii) Refers the appeal to the processing contractor for adjudication under paragraph (f) of this section.


(3)(i) If the eligibility contractor determines that the request for appeal is untimely or incomplete, the individual does not satisfy the requirements for an eligible party, or the services previously furnished are not eligible for an appeal, the eligibility contractor issues a denial notice to the individual (or the party's representative) in writing.


(ii) The denial notice explains that the request is not eligible for an appeal, the reason(s) for the denial of the appeal request, the information needed to cure the denial, and the process for requesting a review of the eligibility denial under paragraph (e) of this section.


(4) Notices regarding eligibility for an appeal issued by the eligibility contractor are written in a manner to be understood by the eligible party or the party's representative.


(e) *Review of an eligibility contractor's denial of a request for an appeal.* (1)(i) An individual (or their representative) may request a review of the eligibility contractor's denial of a request for an appeal by filing a request in writing with the eligibility contractor.


(ii) The request for review should explain the reason(s) the denial of the request for an appeal was incorrect, and should include additional information, as applicable, to support the validity of the original appeal request.


(2) The request for review, with any additional information, must be received by the eligibility contractor no later than 60 calendar days from the date of receipt of the denial notice. If the request for review is received after this deadline, the individual (or the individual's representative) must establish good cause for untimely filing. In determining whether good cause for untimely filing exists, the eligibility contractor applies the provisions in § 405.942(b)(2) and (3).


(3) The review by the eligibility contractor must be conducted by individuals not involved in the initial denial of the request for an appeal.


(4) The eligibility contractor may issue a decision that affirms or reverses the denial of the request for an appeal or may dismiss the request for review. The notice of the eligibility contractor's decision must meet both of the following requirements:


(i) Be written in a manner to be understood by the individual or the individual's representative.


(ii) Be mailed or otherwise transmitted in writing within 60 calendar days of the date of receipt of the request for review.


(5) If the decision is to affirm the denial, or dismiss the request, the eligibility contractor must explain the rationale for the decision.


(6) A denial notice under paragraph (d)(3) of this section issued due to receipt of an untimely appeal request must be reversed if the eligible party (or the party's representative) establishes good cause for late filing under § 405.942(b)(2) and (3).


(7) If the eligibility contractor reverses the initial denial of the request for appeal, the eligibility contractor forwards the request for appeal to the processing contractor under paragraph (f) of this section.


(8) The eligibility contractor's decision that affirms the initial denial of a request for an appeal is binding and not subject to further review.


(9) If the eligibility contractor determines that the request for review of the eligibility denial under paragraph (e)(2) of this section was not submitted timely, and the eligibility contractor did not find good cause for the untimely submission, then the eligibility contractor dismisses the request for review, and such dismissal is binding and not subject to further review.


(f) *Processing eligible requests for appeal.* (1) If the processing contractor determines there is necessary information missing from the appeal case file, the processing contractor attempts to obtain the information from the provider or the eligible party (or the party's representative), as applicable.


(i) The processing contractor allows the provider or eligible party (or the party's representative), or both, up to 60 calendar days to submit missing information.


(ii) If the provider or eligible party (or the party's representative) does not submit the missing information within the allotted time, the processing contractor makes a decision on the request for appeal based on the information available.


(iii) The time between the processing contractor's request for information and receipt of such information (or in the case of information that is requested but is not received, the time allowed by the contractor to submit the information) does not count toward the timeframe for issuing the processing contractor's decision.


(2) The processing contractor reviews the information submitted with the appeal request and any additional information it obtains to determine if the inpatient admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time services were furnished. If the appeal request also includes a request to review denied SNF services that are eligible for an appeal, the processing contractor also determines if such eligible SNF services satisfied relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished.


(3) Subject to the provisions in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the processing contractor mails or otherwise transmits its written decision on the request for appeal within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request.


(g) *Notice and content of the decision.* (1) If the processing contractor determines that the inpatient admission, and as applicable, SNF services, satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, then the processing contractor issues notice of the favorable decision to the eligible party (or the party's representative). The processing contractor also notifies the hospital and SNF, as applicable, in the case of a favorable determination for Part A coverage.


(2)(i) If the processing contractor determines that the inpatient admission, or as applicable, SNF services, did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, then the processing contractor issues notice of the unfavorable or partially favorable decision to the eligible party (or the party's representative).


(ii) The processing contractor issues a notice of a partially favorable decision to the SNF if the inpatient admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage, but the SNF services did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage.


(3) The notice issued to the eligible party (or the party's representative) must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the eligible party (or the party's representative) and include all of the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the processing contractor.


(ii) The reason the hospital admission, and as applicable, the SNF services, satisfied or did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished.


(iii) A summary of the facts, including as appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(iv) An explanation of how pertinent laws, regulations, coverage rules, and CMS policies apply to the facts of the case.


(v) If a favorable decision, the effect of such decision, including, as applicable, a statement about the obligation of the SNF to refund any amounts collected for the covered SNF services, and that the SNF may then submit a new claim(s) for services covered under Part A in order to determine the amounts of benefits due.


(vi) If an unfavorable or partially favorable decision, a statement of any specific missing documentation that should be submitted with a request for reconsideration, if applicable.


(vii) The procedures for obtaining additional information concerning the decision, such as specific provisions of the policy, manual, regulations, or other rules used in making the decision.


(viii) If an unfavorable or partially favorable decision, information about the procedures for filing a request for reconsideration under § 405.934.


(ix) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(4) As applicable, a notice of a favorable decision issued to the SNF (including a decision for a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of beneficiary's hospitalization), includes all of the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the processing contractor.


(ii) The reason the SNF services satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished.


(iii) A summary of the facts, including as appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(iv) An explanation of how pertinent laws, regulations, coverage rules, and CMS policies apply to the facts of the case.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the SNF must refund any payments collected from the beneficiary for the covered SNF services, and that the SNF may then submit a new claim(s) to determine the amount of benefits due for covered services.


(vi) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(5) In the case of a favorable decision for a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization, notice is issued to the hospital that includes all of the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the processing contractor.


(ii) The reason the hospital admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished.


(iii) A summary of the facts, including as appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(iv) An explanation of how pertinent laws, regulations, coverage rules, and CMS policies apply to the facts of the case.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the hospital must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services, and that the hospital may then submit a new Part A inpatient claim in order to determine the amount of benefits due for covered services.


(vi) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(6) In the case of a partially favorable decision issued to a SNF, the notice includes the following:


(i) A clear statement of the decision made by the processing contractor.


(ii) The reason the hospital admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage at the time the services were furnished, and the reason the SNF services did not satisfy the relevant criteria for Part A coverage.


(iii) A summary of the facts, including as appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination.


(iv) An explanation of how pertinent laws, regulations, coverage rules, and CMS policies apply to the facts of the case.


(v) The effect of such decision, including a statement explaining that the decision is being sent for informational purposes only, and that only the eligible party may appeal the decision to a QIC under § 405.934.


(vi) Any other requirements specified by CMS.


(h) *Effect of a favorable appeal decision.* (1)(i) If the processing contractor issues a decision that the beneficiary's inpatient admission satisfied the relevant criteria for Part A coverage and the hospital's decision to change the inpatient admission to outpatient receiving observation services was therefore erroneous, the beneficiary's reclassification as an outpatient is disregarded for the purposes of determining Part A benefits, including Part A SNF coverage, if applicable.


(ii) For the purposes of effectuating a favorable decision by the processing contractor, unless a Part A claim is submitted by a hospital, any claims previously submitted for outpatient hospital services and payments made for such services (including any applicable deductible and coinsurance amounts) are not reopened or revised by the MAC, and payment, as applicable, for covered SNF services may be made by the MAC to the SNF without regard to the hospital claim.


(2) In order to determine Part A benefits to be paid and to make payment for covered services as a result of a favorable decision, as applicable:


(i) The SNF that furnished services to the beneficiary must refund payments previously collected from the beneficiary for the covered services and may then submit a Part A claim(s) for such services within 365 calendar days of receipt of the notice of a favorable decision.


(ii) In the case of a beneficiary not enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization, the hospital that furnished services must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services. After the refund is issued, the hospital may then submit a Part A inpatient claim for such services within 365 calendar days of receipt of the notice of a favorable decision.


(iii) In the case of a beneficiary enrolled in the Supplementary Medical Insurance program (Medicare Part B) at the time of the beneficiary's hospitalization, the hospital that furnished services must refund any payments collected for the outpatient hospital services only if the hospital chooses to submit a Part A inpatient claim for such services. The deadline for submitting a Part A claim for such services is 365 calendar days after receipt of the notice of a favorable decision, and the hospital must refund any payments collected for the outpatient services before submitting the Part A inpatient claim.


(3) The hospital, and as applicable, the SNF, must comply with all applicable provisions regarding charges to the beneficiary for covered services, including but not limited to relevant provisions in part 489 subparts B through D of this chapter.


(i) A favorable appeal decision is considered binding unless it is reopened and revised under the provisions of §§ 405.980 through 405.986.


(ii) The provisions regarding reopening of a redetermination in § 405.980(b) and (c) apply in the same manner to favorable decisions issued under this section.


(4) The notice of a favorable decision issued to a hospital and, as applicable, a SNF does not convey party status to such provider.


(i) *Effect of an unfavorable or partially favorable decision.* (1) An unfavorable or partially favorable appeal decision is considered binding unless—


(i) It is reopened and revised under the provisions of §§ 405.980 through 405.986; or


(ii) An eligible party (or the party's representative) files a request for reconsideration under § 405.934.


(2) The provisions regarding reopening of a redetermination in § 405.980(b) and (c) apply in the same manner to unfavorable or partially favorable decisions issued under this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 83283, Oct. 15, 2024; 89 FR 106363, Dec. 30, 2024]






