# § 1631.6   How to request records—form and content.

(a) A request made under the FOIA may be submitted by one of the following methods:


(1) In writing addressed to FOIA Officer, Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, 77 K Street NE., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20002. The words “FOIA Request” should be clearly marked on both the letter and the envelope.


(2) By electronic mail at *FOIAREQUEST@tsp.gov.* The subject should include the words “FOIA Request.”


(3) By facsimile, Attn: FOIA Officer, at 202-942-1676. The facsimile should be clearly marked with the words “FOIA Request.”


(b) Each request must reasonably describe the record(s) sought, including, when known: Entity/individual originating the record, date, subject matter, type of document, location, and any other pertinent information which would assist in promptly locating the record(s). Each request should also describe the type of entity the requester is for fee purposes. See § 1631.11.


(c) When a request is not considered reasonably descriptive, or requires the production of voluminous records, or places an extraordinary burden on the Board, seriously interfering with its normal functioning to the detriment of the Thrift Savings Plan, the Board may require the person or agent making the FOIA request to confer with a Board representative in order to attempt to verify, and, if possible, narrow the scope of the request.


(d) Upon initial receipt of the FOIA request, the FOIA Officer will determine which official or officials within the Board shall have the primary responsibility for collecting and reviewing the requested information and drafting a proposed response.


(e) Any Board employee or official who receives a FOIA request shall promptly forward it to the FOIA Officer, at the above address. Any Board employee or official who receives an oral request for records shall inform the requestor that FOIA requires requests to be in writing according to the procedures set out herein.


(f) When a person requesting expedited access to records has demonstrated a compelling need, or when the Board has determined that it is appropriate to expedite its response, the Board will process the request ahead of other requests.


(g) To demonstrate compelling need in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, the requester must submit a written statement that contains a certification that the information provided therein is true and accurate to the best of the requester's knowledge and belief. The statement must demonstrate that:


(1) The failure to obtain the record on an expedited basis could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(2) The requester is a person primarily engaged in the dissemination of information, and there is an urgent need to inform the public concerning an actual or alleged Federal Government activity that is the subject of the request.



---

[N] [55 FR 41052, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 55331, Nov. 7, 1994; 63 FR 41708, Aug. 5, 1998; 77 FR 11384, Feb. 27, 2012; 77 FR 61229, Oct. 9, 2012; 82 FR 24826, May 31, 2017]




