# § 84.4   Disability.

(a) *Definition*—(1) *Disability. Disability* means, with respect to an individual:


(i) A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of such individual;


(ii) A record of such an impairment; or


(iii) Being regarded as having such an impairment as described in paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) *Rules of construction.* (i) The definition of “disability” shall be construed broadly in favor of expansive coverage, to the maximum extent permitted by the terms of section 504.


(ii) An individual may establish coverage under any one or more of the three prongs of the definition of “disability” in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the “actual disability” prong in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the “record of” prong in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or the “regarded as” prong in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.


(iii) Where an individual is not challenging a recipient's failure to provide reasonable modifications, it is generally unnecessary to proceed under the “actual disability” (paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) or “record of” (paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) prongs, which require a showing of an impairment that substantially limits a major life activity or a record of such an impairment. In these cases, the evaluation of coverage can be made solely under the “regarded as” (this paragraph (a)(1)(iii)) prong of the definition of disability, which does not require a showing of an impairment that substantially limits a major life activity or a record of such an impairment. An individual may choose, however, to proceed under the “actual disability” or “record of” prong regardless of whether the individual is challenging a recipient's failure to provide reasonable modifications.


(b) *Physical or mental impairment*—(1)(i) *Physical or mental impairment* is defined as any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more body systems, such as: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, immune, circulatory, hemic, lymphatic, skin, and endocrine; or


(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder such as intellectual disability, organic brain syndrome, mental health condition, and specific learning disability.


(2) *Physical or mental impairment* includes, but is not limited to, contagious and noncontagious diseases and conditions such as the following: orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments, and cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, intellectual disability, mental health condition, dyslexia and other specific learning disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Human Immunodeficiency Virus infection (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), tuberculosis, substance use disorder, alcohol use disorder, and long COVID.


(3) *Physical or mental impairment* does not include homosexuality or bisexuality.


(c) *Major life activities*—(1) *Definition.* Major life activities include, but are not limited to:


(i) Caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, sitting, reaching, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, writing, communicating, interacting with others, and working; and


(ii) The operation of a major bodily function, such as the functions of the immune system, special sense organs and skin, normal cell growth, and digestive, genitourinary, bowel, bladder, neurological, brain, respiratory, circulatory, cardiovascular, endocrine, hemic, lymphatic, musculoskeletal, and reproductive systems. The operation of a major bodily function includes the operation of an individual organ within a body system.


(2) *Rules of construction.* (i) In determining whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity, the term major shall not be interpreted strictly to create a demanding standard.


(ii) Whether an activity is a major life activity is not determined by reference to whether it is of central importance to daily life.


(d) *Substantially limits*—(1) *Rules of construction.* The following rules of construction apply when determining whether an impairment substantially limits an individual in a major life activity.


(i) The term “substantially limits” shall be construed broadly in favor of expansive coverage, to the maximum extent permitted by the terms of section 504. “Substantially limits” is not meant to be a demanding standard.


(ii) The primary object of attention in cases brought under section 504 should be whether recipients have complied with their obligations and whether discrimination has occurred, not the extent to which an individual's impairment substantially limits a major life activity. Accordingly, the threshold issue of whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity should not demand extensive analysis.


(iii) An impairment that substantially limits one major life activity does not need to limit other major life activities to be considered a substantially limiting impairment.


(iv) An impairment that is episodic or in remission is a disability if it would substantially limit a major life activity when active.


(v) An impairment is a disability within the meaning of this part if it substantially limits the ability of an individual to perform a major life activity as compared to most people in the general population. An impairment does not need to prevent, or significantly or severely restrict, the individual from performing a major life activity to be considered substantially limiting. Nonetheless, not every impairment will constitute a disability within the meaning of this section.


(vi) The determination of whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity requires an individualized assessment. However, in making this assessment, the term “substantially limits” shall be interpreted and applied to require a degree of functional limitation that is lower than the standard for substantially limits applied prior to the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (ADAAA).


(vii) The comparison of an individual's performance of a major life activity to the performance of the same major life activity by most people in the general population usually will not require scientific, medical, or statistical evidence. Nothing in this paragraph (d)(1) is intended, however, to prohibit or limit the presentation of scientific, medical, or statistical evidence in making such a comparison where appropriate.


(viii) The determination of whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity shall be made without regard to the ameliorative effects of mitigating measures. However, the ameliorative effects of ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses shall be considered in determining whether an impairment substantially limits a major life activity. Ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses are lenses that are intended to fully correct visual acuity or to eliminate refractive error.


(ix) The six-month “transitory” part of the “transitory and minor” exception in paragraph (f)(2) of this section does not apply to the “actual disability” (paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) or “record of” (paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) prongs of the definition of “disability.” The effects of an impairment lasting or expected to last less than six months can be substantially limiting within the meaning of this section for establishing an actual disability or a record of a disability.


(2) *Predictable assessments.* (i) The principles set forth in the rules of construction in this section are intended to provide for generous coverage and application of section 504's prohibition on discrimination through a framework that is predictable, consistent, and workable for all individuals and entities with rights and responsibilities under section 504.


(ii) Applying the principles in this section, the individualized assessment of some types of impairments as set forth in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section will, in virtually all cases, result in a determination of coverage under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (the “actual disability” prong) or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section (the “record of” prong). Given their inherent nature, these types of impairments will, as a factual matter, virtually always be found to impose a substantial limitation on a major life activity. Therefore, with respect to these types of impairments, the necessary individualized assessment should be particularly simple and straightforward.


(iii) For example, applying the principles of this section it should easily be concluded that the types of impairments set forth in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) through (K) of this section will, at a minimum, substantially limit the major life activities indicated. The types of impairments described in this paragraph (d)(2) may substantially limit additional major life activities (including major bodily functions) not explicitly listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) through (K).


(A) Deafness substantially limits hearing;


(B) Blindness substantially limits seeing;


(C) Intellectual disability substantially limits brain function;


(D) Partially or completely missing limbs or mobility impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair substantially limit musculoskeletal function;


(E) Autism Spectrum Disorder substantially limits brain function;


(F) Cancer substantially limits normal cell growth;


(G) Cerebral palsy substantially limits brain function;


(H) Diabetes substantially limits endocrine function;


(I) Epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, and multiple sclerosis each substantially limits neurological function;


(J) Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection substantially limits immune function; and


(K) Major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury, obsessive compulsive disorder, and schizophrenia each substantially limits brain function.


(3) *Condition, manner, or duration.* (i) At all times taking into account the principles set forth in the rules of construction in this section, in determining whether an individual is substantially limited in a major life activity, it may be useful in appropriate cases to consider, as compared to most people in the general population, the conditions under which the individual performs the major life activity; the manner in which the individual performs the major life activity; or the duration of time it takes the individual to perform the major life activity, or for which the individual can perform the major life activity.


(ii) Consideration of facts such as condition, manner, or duration may include, among other things, consideration of the difficulty, effort or time required to perform a major life activity; pain experienced when performing a major life activity; the length of time a major life activity can be performed; or the way an impairment affects the operation of a major bodily function. In addition, the non-ameliorative effects of mitigating measures, such as negative side effects of medication or burdens associated with following a particular treatment regimen, may be considered when determining whether an individual's impairment substantially limits a major life activity.


(iii) In determining whether an individual has a disability under the “actual disability” (paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) or “record of” (paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) prongs of the definition of “disability,” the focus is on how a major life activity is substantially limited, and not on what outcomes an individual can achieve. For example, someone with a learning disability may achieve a high level of academic success, but may nevertheless be substantially limited in one or more major life activities, including, but not limited to, reading, writing, speaking, or learning because of the additional time or effort he or she must spend to read, write, speak, or learn compared to most people in the general population.


(iv) Given the rules of construction set forth in this section, it may often be unnecessary to conduct an analysis involving most or all of the facts related to condition, manner, or duration. This is particularly true with respect to impairments such as those described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, which by their inherent nature should be easily found to impose a substantial limitation on a major life activity, and for which the individualized assessment should be particularly simple and straightforward.


(4) *Mitigating measures.* Mitigating measures include, but are not limited to:


(i) Medication, medical supplies, equipment, appliances, low-vision devices (defined as devices that magnify, enhance, or otherwise augment a visual image, but not including ordinary eyeglasses or contact lenses), prosthetics including limbs and devices, hearing aid(s) and cochlear implant(s) or other implantable hearing devices, mobility devices, and oxygen therapy equipment and supplies;


(ii) Use of assistive technology;


(iii) Reasonable modifications or auxiliary aids or services as defined in this part;


(iv) Learned behavioral or adaptive neurological modifications; or


(v) Psychotherapy, behavioral therapy, or physical therapy.


(e) *Has a record of such an impairment*—(1) *General.* An individual has a record of such an impairment if the individual has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


(2) *Broad construction.* Whether an individual has a record of an impairment that substantially limited a major life activity shall be construed broadly to the maximum extent permitted by section 504 and should not demand extensive analysis. An individual will be considered to fall within the prong in this paragraph (e) of the definition of “disability” if the individual has a history of an impairment that substantially limited one or more major life activities when compared to most people in the general population or was misclassified as having had such an impairment. In determining whether an impairment substantially limited a major life activity, the principles articulated in paragraph (d)(1) of this section apply.


(3) *Reasonable modification.* An individual with a record of a substantially limiting impairment may be entitled to a reasonable modification if needed and related to the past disability.


(f) *Is regarded as having such an impairment.* The following principles apply under the “regarded” as prong of the definition of “disability” in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section:


(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, an individual is “regarded as having such an impairment” if the individual is subjected to a prohibited action because of an actual or perceived physical or mental impairment, whether or not that impairment substantially limits, or is perceived to substantially limit, a major life activity, even if the recipient asserts, or may or does ultimately establish, a defense to the action prohibited by section 504.


(2) An individual is not “regarded as having such an impairment” if the recipient demonstrates that the impairment is, objectively, both “transitory” and “minor.” A recipient may not defeat “regarded as” coverage of an individual simply by demonstrating that it subjectively believed the impairment was transitory and minor; rather, the recipient must demonstrate that the impairment is (in the case of an actual impairment) or would be (in the case of a perceived impairment), objectively, both “transitory” and “minor.” For purposes of this section, “transitory” is defined as lasting or expected to last six months or less.


(3) Establishing that an individual is “regarded as having such an impairment” does not, by itself, establish liability. Liability is established under section 504 only when an individual proves that a recipient discriminated on the basis of disability within the meaning of section 504.


(g) *Exclusions.* The term “disability” does not include the terms set forth at 29 U.S.C. 705(20)(F).





---

[N] [89 FR 40180, May 9, 2024]




