# ยง 535.502   Effect of license or authorization.

(a) No license or other authorization contained in this part or otherwise issued by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 203 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, shall be deemed to authorize or validate any transaction effected prior to the issuance thereof, unless such license or other authorization specifically so provides.


(b) No regulation, ruling, instruction, or license authorizes a transaction prohibited under this part unless the regulation, ruling, instruction, or license is issued by the Treasury Department and specifically refers to this part. No regulation, ruling, instruction or license referring to this part shall be deemed to authorize any transaction prohibited by any provision of parts 500, 505, 515, 520 or 530 of this chapter unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license specifically refers to such provision.


(c) Any regulation, ruling, instruction or license authorizing a transaction otherwise prohibited under this part has the effect of removing a prohibition or prohibitions in subpart B from the transaction, but only to the extent specifically stated by its terms. Unless the regulation, ruling, instruction or license otherwise specifies, such an authorization does not create any right, duty, obligation, claim, or interest in, or with respect to, any property which would not otherwise exist under ordinary principles of law.



---

[N] [44 FR 66833, Nov. 21, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 75353, Dec. 19, 1979]




