# § 4.350   Authority and scope.

(a) The rules and procedures set forth in §§ 4.350 through 4.357 apply only to the determination through intestate succession of the heirs of persons who died entitled to receive compensation under the White Earth Reservation Land Settlement Act of 1985, Public Law 99-264 (100 Stat. 61), amended by Public Law 100-153 (101 Stat. 886) and Public Law 100-212 (101 Stat. 1433).


(b) Whenever requested to do so by the Project Director, an administrative judge shall determine such heirs by applying inheritance laws in accordance with the White Earth Reservation Settlement Act of 1985 as amended, notwithstanding the decedent may have died testate.


(c) As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


(1) The term *Act* means the White Earth Reservation Land Settlement Act of 1985 as amended.


(2) The term *Board* means the Board of Indian Appeals in the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Office of the Secretary.


(3) The term *Project Director* means the Superintendent of the Minnesota Agency, Bureau of Indian Affairs, or other Bureau of Indian Affairs official with delegated authority from the Minneapolis Area Director to serve as the federal officer in charge of the White Earth Reservation Land Settlement Project.


(4) The term *party (parties) in interest* means the Project Director and any presumptive or actual heirs of the decedent, or of any issue of any subsequently deceased presumptive or actual heir of the decedent.


(5) The term *compensation* means a monetary sum, as determined by the Project Director, pursuant to section 8(c) of the Act.


(6) The term *administrative judge* means an administrative judge or an administrative law judge, attorney-advisor, or other appropriate official of the Office of Hearings and Appeals to whom the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals has redelegated his authority, as designee of the Secretary, for making heirship determinations as provided for in these regulations.


(7) The term *appellant* means a party aggrieved by a final order or final order upon reconsideration issued by an administrative judge who files an appeal with the Board.



---

[N] [56 FR 61383, Dec. 3, 1991; 56 FR 65782, Dec. 18, 1991, as amended at 64 FR 13363, Mar. 18, 1999]




