# § 99.7   What are the general reporting, recordkeeping, and verification requirements of this part?

The WEC obligated party that is subject to the requirements of this part must submit a WEC filing to the Administrator as specified in this section.


(a) *Schedule.* The WEC filing must be submitted in accordance with § 99.5.


(b) *Content of the WEC filing.* For each WEC obligated party, report the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section. For each WEC applicable facility comprising the WEC obligated party, report the information in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xiii) of this section, as appropriate. The WEC filing must also include payment of applicable WEC obligation, as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(1) Reporting requirements at the WEC obligated party level.


(i) The WEC obligated party company name.


(ii) The United States address for the WEC obligated party.


(iii) The list of facility ID number(s) under which the WEC applicable facilities comprising the WEC obligated party as of December 31 of the reporting year reported under part 98, subpart W of this chapter.


(iv) If the WEC obligated party acquired one or more WEC applicable facilities in a transaction occurring subsequent to the end of the reporting year (*i.e.,* between January 1 and December 31 of the year following the reporting year) that resulted in the owner(s) or operator(s) of the facility as of December 31 of the reporting year ceasing to exist prior to the WEC filing date pursuant to § 99.5, report the facility ID number for each WEC applicable facility. You must include these WEC applicable facilities in the reporting requirements under § 99.7(b)(2). For each such WEC applicable facility, also report an indication of whether the parent company identified in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section was reported in the part 98 report for the reporting year pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter. For any such WEC applicable facilities that were not associated with the parent company identified in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section, you may elect to report a parent company for that WEC applicable facility subject to the requirement that such parent company must have been reported in the part 98 report for the reporting year pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter for that facility.


(v) The net WEC emissions, as calculated pursuant to § 99.22, net WEC emissions after transfers, following the provisions of § 99.23, and WEC obligation, as calculated pursuant to § 99.24, for the WEC obligated party. If the condition specified in § 99.7(b)(1)(iv) applies for the reporting year, report separately the net WEC emissions, net WEC emissions after transfers, and WEC obligation associated with each WEC applicable facility that was acquired.


(vi) The parent company for purposes of netting under subpart B of this part for the WEC obligated party and the WEC applicable facilities. The indicated parent company must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section. As an alternative to reporting a parent company, the WEC obligated party may be listed and paragraphs (b)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section do not apply.


(A) The indicated parent company must have been reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter for each WEC applicable facility listed pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(B) The WEC obligated party must be a subsidiary of, or partially owned by, the indicated parent company.


(vii) The United States address of the parent company, if electing to report a parent company for purposes of netting under subpart B of this part.


(2) Reporting requirements for each WEC applicable facility comprising the WEC obligated party.


(i) The facility ID number under which the WEC applicable facility emissions are reported under part 98, subpart W of this chapter.


(ii) The industry segment(s) for the WEC applicable facility.


(iii) For WEC applicable facilities in the offshore petroleum and natural gas production or onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, as those industry segment terms are defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, if the conditions specified in § 99.30 regarding emissions from delays in permitting are met, indicate if you are electing to claim for exemption any emissions from delays in permitting. If so, you must provide information as specified in § 99.31.


(iv) If the WEC applicable facility meets the conditions specified in § 99.41(a) and (b) regarding the regulatory compliance exemption, indicate if you are electing to claim for exemption any emissions related to regulatory compliance. If so, you must report the following:


(A) A list of the State(s) and/or Tribal land(s) meeting the conditions specified in § 99.40 for the reporting year in which the WEC applicable facility is located. For WEC applicable facilities in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production or onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segments, as those industry segment terms are defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, a WEC applicable facility is considered to be located in each State or Tribal lands within which a well-pad site or gathering and boosting site, as applicable, was reported pursuant to §§ 98.236(aa)(1)(iv)(C) or (aa)(10)(v)(E) of this chapter, as applicable, for the reporting year.


(B) An indication of whether the WEC applicable facility contained any affected facilities subject to methane emissions standards under part 60 of this chapter as of December 31st of the reporting year or any designated facilities subject to methane emissions standards under an applicable approved State, Tribal, or Federal plan in part 62 of this chapter as of December 31st of the reporting year. If so, provide the information specified in § 99.42, as applicable.


(v) For WEC applicable facilities in the onshore petroleum and natural gas production, offshore petroleum and natural gas production, or underground natural gas storage industry segments, as those industry segment terms are defined in § 98.230 of this chapter, if the conditions specified in § 99.50 regarding emissions from permanently shut-in and plugged wells are met, indicate if you are electing to claim for exemption any emissions from plugged wells. If so, you must report the information specified in § 99.51.


(vi) The facility waste emissions threshold as calculated pursuant to § 99.20, and, if there is more than one applicable industry segment within the WEC applicable facility, each industry segment waste emissions threshold for each applicable industry segment within the applicable facility, as calculated pursuant to § 99.20.


(vii) The facility applicable emissions, as calculated pursuant to § 99.21 and the WEC applicable emissions, as calculated pursuant to § 99.21.


(viii) The total emissions for the WEC applicable facility as reported under part 98, subpart W of this chapter for the reporting year, mt CO_2_e. If the facility reported information related to one or more combustion-related other large release events pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this section, reduce this amount by the total quantity of emissions reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(xiii)(D) of this section. If the adjusted total emissions for the WEC applicable facility following this reduction are less than or equal to 25,000 metric tons CO_2_e for the reporting year, then the total facility applicable emissions and WEC applicable emissions for the WEC applicable facility are zero, paragraphs (a) through (d) of § 99.20 do not apply to the WEC applicable facility, and the reporting requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) through (vii) of this section do not apply.


(ix) The annual methane emissions for the WEC applicable facility, as reported under part 98, subpart W of this chapter for the corresponding reporting year, mt CH_4_. If the facility reported information related to one or more combustion-related other large release events pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this section, reduce this amount by the total quantity of emissions reported pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(xiii)(C) of this section.


(x) The total quantity of natural gas that is sent to sale from the WEC applicable facility in the reporting year, as reported pursuant to part 98, subpart W of this chapter, in Mscf.


(xi) The total quantity of crude oil that is sent to sale from the WEC applicable facility in the reporting year, as reported pursuant to part 98, subpart W of this chapter, in barrels.


(xii) The percentage of ownership interest of the parent company reported pursuant to § 99.7(b)(1)(vi) of the WEC applicable facility as reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter for the reporting year. Report 0 for any WEC applicable facilities reported pursuant to § 99.7(b)(1)(iv) for which the parent company was not reported pursuant to § 98.3(c)(11) of this chapter for the reporting year.


(xiii) For reporting year 2025 and later, if one or more combustion-related other large release events were reported pursuant to § 98.236(y) of this chapter and reported emissions pursuant § 98.236(z) of this chapter for the same combustion unit for the timespan of the event for the WEC applicable facility in the part 98 report for that reporting year, then for each combustion-related other large release event report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(xiii)(A) through (D) of this section. For purposes of this part, a combustion-related other large release event is one in which the equipment involved in the release identified pursuant to § 98.236(y)(5)(i) of this chapter is equipment that reports emissions pursuant § 98.236(z) of this chapter.


(A) The unique release event identification number for the other large release event as reported pursuant to § 98.236(y)(2) of this chapter.


(B) The annual CO_2_ emissions, in metric tons CO_2_, that were reported pursuant to § 98.236(z) of this chapter from the equipment associated with the release that occurred during the timespan of the release as reported pursuant to § 98.236(y)(4) of this chapter. Determine this quantity using the applicable method in paragraphs § 98.236(z)(1) through (3) of this chapter and using measurement data, if available, or a combination of process knowledge, engineering estimates, and best available data when measurement data are not available.


(C) The annual CH_4_ emissions, in metric tons CH_4_, that were reported pursuant to § 98.236(z) of this chapter from the equipment associated with the release that occurred during the timespan of the release as reported pursuant to § 98.236(y)(4) of this chapter. Determine this quantity using the applicable method in paragraphs § 98.236(z)(1) through (3) of this chapter and using measurement data, if available, or a combination of process knowledge, engineering estimates, and best available data when measurement data are not available.


(D) The CO_2_e emissions, in metric tons CO_2_e, that were reported pursuant to § 98.236(z) of this chapter from the equipment associated with the release that occurred during the timespan of the release as reported pursuant to § 98.236(y)(4) of this chapter. Calculate this value using equation A-1 of subpart A to part 98 of this chapter, using the values of CO_2_ and CH_4_ reported pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(xiii)(B) and (C), respectively, of this section.


(3) Payment of applicable WEC obligation, submitted in accordance with § 99.9.


(c) *Verification of the WEC filing.* To verify the completeness and accuracy of WEC filing, the EPA will consider the verification status of part 98 reports and may review the certification statements described in § 99.4 and any other credible evidence, in conjunction with a comprehensive review of the WEC filing, including attachments. The EPA intends to conduct audits of select WEC obligated parties and associated WEC applicable facilities. During such audits, the records generated under this part must be made available to the EPA. The on-site audits may be conducted by private auditors contracted by the EPA or by Federal, State or local personnel, as appropriate. Nothing in this section prohibits the EPA from requesting or using additional information, including reports, prepared and submitted in accordance with part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable approved State, Tribal, or Federal plan under part 62 of this chapter that implements the emission guidelines contained in part 60 of this chapter, to verify the completeness and accuracy of the filings.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* A WEC obligated party that is subject to the requirements of this part must keep records as specified in this paragraph (d). You must retain all required records for at least 5 years from the date of submission of the WEC filing for the reporting year in which the record was generated. The records shall be kept in an electronic or hard-copy format (as appropriate) and recorded in a form that is suitable for expeditious inspection and review. Upon request by the Administrator, the records required under this section must be made available to the EPA or a third-party auditor if one is required. Records may be retained off site if the records are readily available for expeditious inspection and review. For records that are electronically generated or maintained, the equipment or software necessary to read the records shall be made available, or, if requested by the EPA, electronic records shall be converted to paper documents. You must retain the following records, in addition to those records prescribed in each applicable subpart of this part:


(1) All information required to be retained by part 98, including subparts A and W of this chapter.


(2) Any other information not included in a part 98 report used to complete the WEC filing.


(3) All information required to be submitted as part of the WEC filing.


(e) *Annual WEC filing revisions.* Except as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply until December 15 of the year following the reporting year, or for a given reporting year after the December 15 deadline if the resubmission is related to the resolution of unverified filings specified at § 99.8. If the deadline falls on a weekend or a Federal holiday, the deadline date shall be extended to the next business day.


(1) The WEC obligated party shall submit a revised WEC filing within 30 days of discovering that a previously submitted WEC filing contains one or more substantive errors. The revised WEC filing must correct all substantive errors. If the resubmission is due to a correction in a part 98 report resubmitted by a WEC applicable facility, the WEC obligated party must report the number of corrections made in the part 98 report(s) and a description of how the changes impact the assessment of the WEC obligation.


(2) The revisions for substantive errors as described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section are not subject to the December 15 deadline and must be submitted according to the schedule therein.


(i) Revised filings for purposes of the regulatory compliance exemption must be submitted as follows:


(A) Revised filings to submit a CAA section 111(b) or (d) compliance report which covers the remaining portion of a WEC filing year, which were not available at the time of the WEC filing, must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the date that the compliance report covering the remainder of the year is due under the applicable requirements of CAA section 111(b) or (d), as applicable.


(B) Revised filings to submit findings by the WEC obligated party that one or more deviations or violations discovered after the WEC filing must be submitted within 30 days of the discovery.


(ii) The Administrator may notify the WEC obligated party in writing that a WEC filing previously submitted by the WEC obligated party contains one or more substantive errors. Such notification will identify each such substantive error. The WEC obligated party shall, within 30 days of receipt of the notification, either resubmit the WEC filing that, for each identified substantive error, corrects the identified substantive error (in accordance with the applicable requirements of this part) or provide information demonstrating that the previously submitted filing does not contain the identified substantive error or that the identified error is not a substantive error. The EPA reserves the right to revise WEC obligations for a given reporting year after the December 15 final resubmission deadline if data errors are discovered by the EPA at a later date.


(iii) Revised filings submitted pursuant to Administrator approval or an Agreement between the WEC obligated party and the Administrator to correct substantive errors.


(3) A substantive error is an error that impacts the Administrator's ability to accurately calculate a WEC obligated party's WEC obligation, which may include, but is not limited to, the list of WEC applicable facilities associated with a WEC obligated party, the emissions or throughput reported in the WEC applicable facility part 98 report(s), emissions associated with exemptions, and supporting information for each exemption to demonstrate its validity.


(4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, upon request the Administrator may provide an extension of the 30-day period for submission of a revised report or information under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section if adequate justification is provided by the WEC obligated party. The Administrator may provide an extension provided that the request is received by email to an address prescribed by the Administrator prior to the expiration of the 30-day period and that the request demonstrates that it is not practicable to submit a revised report or information under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section within 30 days. In no case shall an extension be granted beyond the December 15 final submission deadline.


(5) The WEC obligated party shall retain documentation for a minimum of 5 years from the date of creation to support any revision made to a WEC filing.


(6) If a WEC applicable facility changes ownership such that there is a change to the WEC obligated party, the entity that was the WEC obligated party as reported pursuant to § 99.7(b)(1)(i) in the WEC filing submitted for a reporting year remains responsible for any revisions to WEC filings for that reporting year.


(f) *Designation of unverified filings and reports.* Following the verification process discussed in § 98.3(h) of this chapter for part 98 reports and paragraph (c) of this section for WEC filings, the EPA shall designate:


(1) The annual part 98 report associated with each WEC applicable facility as either verified or unverified. An unverified report is one in which the EPA has provided notification under § 98.3(h)(2) of this chapter and the owner or operator of the WEC applicable facility has failed to revise and resubmit the report and resolve the error or provide justification to the satisfaction of the EPA that the identified error is not a substantive error (in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 98.3(h)(3) of this chapter).


(2) The annual WEC filing from each WEC obligated party submitted pursuant to § 99.7 as either verified or unverified. An unverified filing is one in which the EPA has provided notification under § 99.7(e)(2) and the WEC obligated party designated representative has failed to resubmit the filing and for each identified substantive error correct the identified substantive error (in accordance with the applicable requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section) or provide information demonstrating that the submitted filing does not contain the identified substantive error or that the identified error is not a substantive error. The determination of verification status of a part 98 report under paragraph (f)(1) of this section will be taken into consideration in the determination of the verification status of a WEC filing. A WEC filing may also be designated as unverified if it includes receipt of a transfer of negative net WEC emissions, pursuant to § 99.23, associated with an unverified part 98 report (*i.e.,* the WEC obligated party which transferred the negative net WEC emissions includes one or more WEC applicable facilities for which the associated part 98 report is unverified).






