# § 98.355   Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable (*e.g.,* if a meter malfunctions during unit operation or if a required sample is not taken), a substitute data value for the missing parameter must be used in the calculations, according to the following requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:


(a) For each missing weekly value of COD or BOD_5_ or wastewater flow entering an anaerobic wastewater treatment process, the substitute data value must be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of those parameters for the week immediately preceding and the week immediately following the missing data incident.


(b) For each missing value of the CH_4_ content or biogas flow rates, the substitute data value must be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident.


(c) If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, the substitute data value must be the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period. If, for a particular parameter, the “after” value is not obtained by the end of the reporting year, you may use the last quality-assured value obtained “before” the missing data period for the missing data substitution. You must document and keep records of the procedures you use for all such estimates.



---

[N] [75 FR 39767, July 12, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 73905, Nov. 29, 2011]




