# ยง 12.25   Filing fees.

(a) *Fees payable upon filing a complaint.* (1) A complainant who, in the complaint, has elected the voluntary decisional procedure shall, at the time of filing the complaint, pay a filing fee of $50.00;


(2) A complainant who, in the complaint wherein the amount of damages claimed does not exceed $30,000, exclusive of interest and costs, has not elected the voluntary decisional procedure shall, at the time of filing the complaint, pay a filing fee of $125.00.


(3) A complainant who, in the complaint wherein the amount of damages claimed exceeds $30,000, exclusive of interest and costs, has not elected the voluntary decisional procedure shall, at the time of filing the complaint, pay a filing fee of $250.00.


(b) *Fees payable upon filing an answer.* (1) If a complainant, in the complaint, has elected the voluntary decisional procedure, a respondent who, in the answer, elects the summary decisional procedure (available only where the amount of damages claimed in the complaint or as counterclaims does not exceed $30,000) shall, at the time of filing the answer, pay a filing fee of $75.00.


(2) If a complainant, in the complaint, has elected the voluntary decisional procedure, a respondent who, in the answer, elects the formal decisional procedure (available only where the amount of damages claimed in the complaint or as counterclaims exceeds $30,000) shall, at the time of filing the answer, pay a filing fee of $200.00.


(c) *Fees payable upon filing a reply.* In any case in which a counterclaim has been made, unless a complainant in the complaint, or the respondent in an answer, has elected the summary decisional procedure or the formal decisional procedure a complainant, who in the reply elects either of these procedures, shall, at the time of filing the reply, pay a filing fee of $75.00 or $200.00, respectively, depending whether the procedure elected by complainant is pursuant to subpart D or E of this part.



---

[N] [49 FR 6621, Feb. 22, 1984; 49 FR 15070, Apr. 17, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 9637, Mar. 1, 1994; 86 FR 64354, Nov. 18, 2021]




