# § 4274.302   Definitions.

The following definitions are applicable to the terms used in this subpart.


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Rural Business-Cooperative Service within the Rural Development mission area of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).


*Affiliate.* Affiliate means individuals and entities are affiliates of each other when:


(1) One controls or has the power to control the other, or a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. Factors such as ownership, management, current and previous relationships with or ties to another concern, and contractual relationships, shall be considered in determining whether affiliation exists. It does not matter whether control is exercised, so long as the power to control exists. Concerns owned and controlled by Indian Tribes, Alaska Native Corporations (ANC), Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHO), Community Development Corporations (CDC), or wholly-owned entities of Indian Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, or CDCs, are not considered to be affiliated with other concerns owned by these entities because of their common ownership or common management.


(2) There is an identity of interest between immediate family with identical or substantially identical business or economic interests (such as where the immediate family operate concerns in the same or similar industry in the same geographic area); however, an individual or entity may rebut that determination with evidence showing that the interests deemed to be one are in fact separate.


*Agency.* The Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS) that has the responsibility to administer the Intermediary Relending Program (IRP).


*Agency IRP loan.* An IRP loan from the Agency to an intermediary with established terms and evidenced by a loan agreement and promissory note between parties.


*Agency IRP loan funds.* Cash proceeds of an Agency IRP loan received by an intermediary are considered Agency IRP loan funds.


*Agricultural production or agriculture production.* The cultivation, growing, or harvesting of plants and crops (including farming) breeding, raising, feeding, or housing of livestock (including ranching); forestry products, hydroponics, or nursery stock; or aquaculture.


*Aquaculture.* The commercial cultivation of aquatic animals and plants in natural or controlled marine or freshwater environments.


*Citizen.* An individual who is a citizen of the United States or resides in any State in the United States after being legally admitted for permanent residence.


*Community development.* Advancing livable and vibrant communities through coordinated approaches to economic, environmental, and human development by means of comprehensive business-based technical and financial assistance.


*Conflict of interest.* A situation in which a person or entity has competing personal, professional, or financial interests that make it difficult for the person or business to act impartially, or there is a real or perceived benefit from engaging in certain projects or transactions. Regarding use of both grant and matching funds, Federal procurement standards prohibit transactions that involve a real or apparent conflict of interest for owners, employees, officers, agents, their immediate family members, partners, or an organization which is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, having a financial or other interest in or tangible personal benefit from the outcome of the project; or that restrict open and free competition for unrestrained trade. Specifically, project funds may not be used for services or goods going to, or coming from, a person or entity with a real or apparent conflict of interest, including, but not limited to, owner(s) and their immediate family members and as stated in § 4274.321(b)(4).


*Cooperative.* An entity that is legally chartered by a State in which it operates as a cooperatively-operated business, or an entity that is not legally chartered as a cooperative but is owned and operated for the benefit of its members, with the return of residual earnings paid to such members on the basis of patronage.


*Hydroponics.* The commercial cultivation of plants by placing the roots in liquid nutrient solutions rather than in soil.


*Immediate family.* Individuals who live in the same household or who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, stepchild, sibling, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, nephew, or first cousin.


*Indian tribe.* The term as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(e); any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) [43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*], which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Intermediary.* The entity requesting or receiving, as applicable, Agency IRP loan funds for establishing or recapitalizing an IRP revolving loan fund and relending to ultimate recipients.


*Intermediary equity contribution.* Represents an intermediary's investment in the IRP revolving loan fund, in the form of cash and unencumbered ownership in an amount determined by the applicant. This must be contributed to the IRP revolving loan fund prior to, or concurrently to, the disbursement of Agency IRP loan funds from the Agency. This contribution becomes restricted and must remain as equity in the IRP revolving loan fund subject to the provisions of §§ 4274.332(d) and 4274.341(b)(1) and (2).


*IRP revolving loan fund.* A group of assets:


(1) Obtained through or related to an Agency IRP loan; and


(2) Accounted for, along with related liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as an entity or enterprise separate from the intermediary's other assets and financial activities.


*Loan agreement.* The agreement, which utilizes the requisite OMB-approved form, between the Agency and the intermediary setting forth the terms and conditions of the Agency IRP loan.


*Military personnel.* Individuals currently on active duty in the regular service, having enlisted from civilian or Reserve Officers' Training Corps status, or individuals on active duty in the regular service with more than six months until their anticipated date of release from service.


*Principals of intermediary.* Members, officers, directors, and other individuals or entities directly involved in the operation and management, including those setting policy, of an intermediary.


*Public agency.* Any State, Indian Tribal or local government, or any branch or agency of such government having authority to act on behalf of that government, to borrow funds and engage in activities eligible for funding under this subpart.


*Revolved funds.* The cash portion of an IRP revolving loan fund that includes fees, principal, and interest payments received from ultimate recipients and is not composed of any Agency IRP loan funds.




*Rural or rural area.* Any area of a State not in a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I), according to the latest decennial census of the United States and not in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants.

 In making this determination, the Agency will use the latest decennial census of the United States. The following exclusions apply:


(1) Any area in the urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants that has been determined to be “rural in character” as follows:


(i) The determination that an area is “rural in character” will be made by the Under Secretary of Rural Development. The process to request a determination under this provision is outlined in paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. The determination that an area is “rural in character” under this definition will apply to areas that are within:


(A) An urbanized area that has two points on its boundary that are at least 40 miles apart, which is not contiguous or adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 150,000 inhabitants or the urbanized area of such a city or town; or


(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town of greater than 50,000 inhabitants that is within 
1/4 mile of a rural area.


(ii) Units of local government may petition the Under Secretary of Rural Development for a “rural in character” designation by submitting a petition to the appropriate Rural Development State Director for recommendation to the Administrator on behalf of the Under Secretary. The petition shall document how the area meets the requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(A) or (B) of this definition and discuss why the petitioner believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, and topography and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receiving a petition, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable governor or leader in a similar position and request comments to be submitted within five business days, unless such comments were submitted with the petition. The Under Secretary will release to the public a notice of a petition filed by a unit of local government not later than 30 days after receipt of the petition by way of publication in a local newspaper and posting on the Rural Development State Office website and the Under Secretary will make a determination not less than 15 days, but no more than 60 days, after the release of the notice. Upon a negative determination, the Under Secretary will provide to the petitioner an opportunity to appeal a determination to the Under Secretary, and the petitioner will have 10 business days to appeal the determination and provide further information for consideration. The Under Secretary will make a determination of the appeal in not less than 15 days, but no more than 30 days.


(iii) Rural Development State Directors may also initiate a request to the Under Secretary to determine if an area is “rural in character.” A written recommendation should be sent to the Administrator, on behalf of the Under Secretary, that documents how the area meets the statutory requirements of paragraph (1)(i)(B) of this definition and discusses why the State Director believes the area is “rural in character,” including, but not limited to, the area's population density, demographics, topography, and how the local economy is tied to a rural economic base. Upon receipt of such a request, the Administrator will review the request for compliance with the “rural in character” provisions and make a recommendation to the Under Secretary. Provided a favorable determination is made, the Under Secretary will consult with the applicable Governor and request comments within 10 business days, unless gubernatorial comments were submitted with the request. A public notice will be published by the State Office in accordance with paragraph (1)(ii) of this definition. There is no appeal process for requests made on the initiative of the State Director.


(2) An area that is attached to the urbanized area of a city or town with more than 50,000 inhabitants by a contiguous area of urbanized census blocks that is not more than two census blocks wide. Applicants from such an area should work with their Rural Development State Office to request a determination of whether their project is located in a rural area under this provision.


(3) For the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the island is considered rural and eligible except for the San Juan Census Designated Place (CDP) and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the San Juan CDP, may be determined to be Rural if they are not urban in character.


(4) For the State of Hawaii, all areas within the State are considered rural and eligible except for the Honolulu CDP within the County of Honolulu and any other CDP with greater than 50,000 inhabitants. Areas within CDPs with greater than 50,000 inhabitants, other than the Honolulu CDP, may be determined to be Rural if they are not urban in character.


(5) For the purpose of defining a rural area in the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Agency shall determine what constitutes rural and rural area based on available population data.


*State.* Any of the 50 States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.


*Technical assistance.* A function performed for the benefit of an ultimate recipient, or proposed ultimate recipient, that is a problem-solving activity that assists the ultimate recipient in selecting, initiating, or completing a project. The Agency will determine whether a specific activity qualifies as technical assistance.


*Ultimate recipient.* An entity or individual that receives a loan from an intermediary's IRP revolving loan fund.


*Underrepresented group.* U.S. citizens with identifiable common characteristics, (including, but not limited to, racial and ethnic minorities, disabled and/or gender) that have not received IRP assistance or have received a lower percentage of total IRP dollars than the percentage they represent of the general population.


*Value-added agricultural product.* Any agricultural commodity that meets the requirements specified here. The agricultural commodity must meet one of the following value-added methodologies:


(1) Has undergone a change in physical state;


(2) Is a source of farm or ranch-based renewable energy; or


(3) Is aggregated and marketed as a locally produced agricultural food product.


*Work plan.* A narrative provided by the intermediary that demonstrates the feasibility of the intermediary and its lending program to meet the objectives of the IRP program, including a set of goals, strategies, anticipated outcomes, and well-developed targeting criteria for assisting eligible ultimate recipients.





---

[N] [86 FR 72156, Dec. 21, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 38644, June 29, 2022]






