# § 29.1303   Flight and navigation instruments.

The following are required flight and navigational instruments: 


(a) An airspeed indicator. For Category A rotorcraft with V_NE_ less than a speed at which unmistakable pilot cues provide overspeed warning, a maximum allowable airspeed indicator must be provided. If maximum allowable airspeed varies with weight, altitude, temperature, or r.p.m., the indicator must show that variation. 


(b) A sensitive altimeter. 


(c) A magnetic direction indicator. 


(d) A clock displaying hours, minutes, and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation. 


(e) A free-air temperature indicator. 


(f) A non-tumbling gyroscopic bank and pitch indicator. 


(g) A gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator combined with an integral slip-skid indicator (turn-and-bank indicator) except that only a slip-skid indicator is required on rotorcraft with a third attitude instrument system that—


(1) Is usable through flight attitudes of ±80 degrees of pitch and ±120 degrees of roll;


(2) Is powered from a source independent of the electrical generating system; 


(3) Continues reliable operation for a minimum of 30 minutes after total failure of the electrical generating system; 


(4) Operates independently of any other attitude indicating system;


(5) Is operative without selection after total failure of the electrical generating system; 


(6) Is located on the instrument panel in a position acceptable to the Administrator that will make it plainly visible to and useable by any pilot at his station; and 


(7) Is appropriately lighted during all phases of operation. 


(h) A gyroscopic direction indicator. 


(i) A rate-of-climb (vertical speed) indicator.


(j) For Category A rotorcraft, a speed warning device when V_NE_ is less than the speed at which unmistakable overspeed warning is provided by other pilot cues. The speed warning device must give effective aural warning (differing distinctively from aural warnings used for other purposes) to the pilots whenever the indicated speed exceeds V_NE_ plus 3 knots and must operate satisfactorily throughout the approved range of altitudes and temperatures. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5084, 29 FR 16150, Dec. 3, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55474, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 29-14, 42 FR 36972, July 18, 1977; Amdt. 29-24, 49 FR 44438, Nov. 6, 1984; 70 FR 2012, Jan. 12, 2005] 




