# ยง 1640.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term: 


*Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990* or *ADA* means the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-336, 104 Stat. 327, 42 U.S.C. 12101-12213 and 47 U.S.C. 225 and 611). 


*Assistant Attorney General* refers to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice, or his or her designee. 


*Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission* refers to the Chairman of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or his or her designee. 


*Civil Rights Division* means the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice. 


*Designated agency* means any one of the eight agencies designated under ยง 35.190 of 28 CFR part 35 (the Department's title II regulation) to implement and enforce title II of the ADA with respect to the functional areas within their jurisdiction. 


*Dual-filed complaint or charge* means a complaint or charge of employment discrimination that: 


(1) Arises under both section 504 and title I; 


(2) Has been filed with both a section 504 agency that has jurisdiction under section 504 and with the EEOC, which has jurisdiction under title I; and 


(3) Alleges the same facts and raises the same issues in both filings. 


*Due weight* shall mean, with respect to the weight a section 504 agency or the EEOC shall give to the other agency's findings and conclusions, such full and careful consideration as is appropriate, taking into account such factors as: 


(1) The extent to which the underlying investigation is complete and the evidence is supportive of the findings and conclusions; 


(2) The nature and results of any subsequent proceedings; 


(3) The extent to which the findings, conclusions and any actions taken: 


(i) Under title I are consistent with the effective enforcement of section 504; or 


(ii) Under section 504 are consistent with the effective enforcement of title I; and 


(4) The section 504 agency's responsibilities under section 504 or the EEOC's responsibilities under title I. 


*Equal Employment Opportunity Commission* or *EEOC* refers to the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and, when appropriate, to any of its headquarters, district, area, local, or field offices. 


*Federal financial assistance* shall have the meaning, with respect to each section 504 agency, as defined in such agency's regulations implementing section 504 for Federally- assisted programs. 


*Program or activity* shall have the meaning defined in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794), as amended. 


*Public entity* means: 


(1) Any State or local government; 


(2) Any department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or States or local government; and 


(3) The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and any commuter authority (as defined in section 103(8) of the Rail Passenger Service Act, 45 U.S.C. 502(8)). 


*Recipient* means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, for any program, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary under such program. 


*Section 504* means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794), as amended. 


*Section 504 agency* means any Federal department or agency that extends Federal financial assistance to programs or activities of recipients. 


*Title I* means title I of the ADA. 


*Title II* means subtitle A of title II of the ADA. 




