# § 98.277   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) GHG emission estimates (including separate estimates of biogenic CO_2_) for each emissions source listed under § 98.270(b).


(b) Annual analyses of spent pulping liquor HHV for each chemical recovery furnace at kraft and soda facilities.


(c) Annual analyses of spent pulping liquor carbon content for each chemical recovery combustion unit at a sulfite or semichemical pulp facility.


(d) Annual quantity of spent liquor solids combusted in each chemical recovery furnace and chemical recovery combustion unit, and the basis for determining the annual quantity of the spent liquor solids combusted (whether based on T650 om-05 Solids Content of Black Liquor, TAPPI (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) or an online measurement system). If an online measurement system is used, you must retain records of the calculations used to determine the annual quantity of spent liquor solids combusted from the continuous measurements.




(e) Annual steam purchases.


(f) Annual quantities of makeup chemicals used.


(g) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (27) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (g)(1) through (27) of this section.


(1) Mass of the solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (Equation C-1 of § 98.33).


(2) Volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-1).


(3) Volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-1).


(4) Annual natural gas usage (therms/year) (Equation C-1a of § 98.33).


(5) Annual natural gas usage (mmBtu/year) (Equation C-1b of § 98.33).


(6) Mass of the solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (Equation C-2a of § 98.33).


(7) Volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-2a).


(8) Volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-2a).


(9) Annual mass of the solid fuel combusted (short tons/year) (Equation C-3 of § 98.33).


(10) Annual average carbon content of the solid fuel (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation C-3).


(11) Annual volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-4 of § 98.33).


(12) Annual average carbon content of the liquid fuel (kg C per gallon of fuel) (Equation C-4).


(13) Annual volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-5 of § 98.33).


(14) Annual average carbon content of the gaseous fuel (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation C-5).


(15) Annual average molecular weight of the gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation C-5).


(16) Molar volume conversion factor at standard conditions, as defined in § 98.6 (scf per kg-mole) (Equation C-5).


(17) Identify if you will use the default high heat value from Table C-1 of subpart C of this part, or actual HHV data (Equation C-8 of § 98.33).


(18) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/tons) (Equation C-8).


(19) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/gallons) (Equation C-8).


(20) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/scf) (Equation C-8).


(21) Mass of spent liquor solids combusted from each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility, in short tons in year, determined according to § 98.274(b) (tons/year) (Equation AA-1 of § 98.273).


(22) Annual high heat value of the spent liquor solids from each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility determined according to § 98.274(b) (mmBtu per kilogram) (Equation AA-1).


(23) Annual high heat value of the spent liquor solids from each chemical recovery combustion unit located at a sulfite or stand-alone semichemical facility, determined according to § 98.274(b) (mmBtu per kilogram) (Equation AA-1).


(24) Mass of the spent liquor solids combusted in short tons per year determined according to § 98.274(b) (tons/year) (Equation AA-2 of § 98.273).


(25) Annual carbon content of the spent liquor solids, determined according to § 98.274(b) (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction (e.g., 95% = 0.95)) (Equation AA-2).


(26) Make-up quantity of CaCO_3_ used for the reporting year (metric tons/year) (Equation AA-3 of § 98.273).


(27) Make-up quantity of Na_2_CO_3_ used for the reporting year metric tons/year) (Equation AA-3).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63798, Oct. 24, 2014; 89 FR 31932, Apr. 25, 2024]




