# § 303.42   Filing procedures.

(a) *General.* An applicant shall submit an application to the appropriate FDIC office on the date the notice required by § 303.44 is published, or within 5 days after the date of the last required publication. 


(b) *Content of filing.* A complete letter application shall include the following information: 


(1) A statement of intent to establish a branch, or to relocate the main office or a branch; 


(2) The exact location of the proposed site including the street address. With regard to messenger services, specify the geographic area in which the services will be available. With regard to a mobile branch specify the community or communities in which the vehicle will operate and the manner in which it will be used; 


(3) Details concerning any involvement in the proposal by an insider of the bank as defined in § 303.2(u), including any financial arrangements relating to fees, the acquisition of property, leasing of property, and construction contracts; 


(4) Comments on any changes in services to be offered, the community to be served, or any other effect the proposal may have on the applicant's compliance with the CRA; 


(5) A copy of each newspaper publication required by § 303.44 of this subpart, the name and address of the newspaper, and date of the publication; 


(6) When an application is submitted to relocate the main office of the applicant from one state to another, a statement of the applicant's intent regarding retention of branches in the state where the main office exists prior to relocation.


(c) *Undercapitalized institutions.* Applications to establish a branch by applicants subject to section 38 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831*o*) also should provide the information required by § 303.204. Applications pursuant to sections 38 and 18(d) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831*o* and 1828(d)) may be filed concurrently or as a single application. 


(d) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information to complete processing. 



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 85 FR 72555, Nov. 13, 2020]




