# ยง 262.82   General conditions.

(a) *Scope.* The level of control for exports and imports of waste is indicated by assignment of the waste to either a list of wastes subject to the Green control procedures or a list of wastes subject to the Amber control procedures and whether the waste is or is not hazardous waste. The OECD Green and Amber lists are incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 260.11.


(1) *Green list wastes.* (i) Green wastes that are not hazardous wastes are subject to existing controls normally applied to commercial transactions, and are not subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(ii) Green wastes that are hazardous wastes are subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(2) *Amber list wastes.* (i) Amber wastes that are hazardous wastes are subject to the requirements of this subpart, even if they are imported to or exported from a country that does not consider the waste to be hazardous or control the transboundary shipment as a hazardous waste import or export.


(A) For exports, the exporter must comply with ยง 262.83.


(B) For imports, the recovery or disposal facility and the importer must comply with ยง 262.84.


(ii) Amber wastes that are not hazardous wastes, but are considered hazardous by the other country are subject to the Amber control procedures in the country that considers the waste hazardous, and are not subject to the requirements of this subpart. All responsibilities of the importer or exporter shift to the foreign importer or foreign exporter in the other country that considers the waste hazardous unless the parties make other arrangements through contracts.


(3) *Mixtures of wastes.* (i) A Green waste that is mixed with one or more other Green wastes such that the resulting mixture is not hazardous waste is not subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(ii) A Green waste that is mixed with one or more Amber wastes, in any amount, de minimis or otherwise, or a mixture of two or more Amber wastes, such that the resulting waste mixture is hazardous waste is subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(4) Wastes not yet assigned to an OECD waste list are eligible for transboundary movements, as follows:


(i) If such wastes are hazardous wastes, such wastes are subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(ii) If such wastes are not hazardous wastes, such wastes are not subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(b) *General conditions applicable to transboundary movements of hazardous waste.* (1) The hazardous waste must be destined for recovery or disposal operations at a facility that, under applicable domestic law, is operating or is authorized to operate in the country of import;


(2) The transboundary movement must be in compliance with applicable international transport agreements; and


(3) Any transit of hazardous waste through one or more countries must be conducted in compliance with all applicable international and national laws and regulations.


(c) *Duty to return wastes subject to the Amber control procedures during transit through the United States.* When a transboundary movement of hazardous wastes transiting the United States and subject to the Amber control procedures does not comply with the requirements of the notification and movement documents or otherwise constitutes illegal shipment, and if alternative arrangements cannot be made to recover or dispose of these wastes in an environmentally sound manner, the waste must be returned to the country of export. The U.S. transporter must inform EPA at the specified mailing address in paragraph (e) of this section of the need to return the shipment. EPA will then inform the competent authority of the country of export, citing the reason(s) for returning the waste. The U.S. transporter must complete the return within ninety (90) days from the time EPA informs the country of export of the need to return the waste, unless informed in writing by EPA of another timeframe agreed to by the concerned countries.


(d) *Laboratory analysis exemption.* Export or import of a hazardous waste sample is exempt from the requirements of this subpart if the sample is destined for laboratory analysis to assess its physical or chemical characteristics, or to determine its suitability for recovery or disposal operations, does not exceed twenty-five kilograms (25 kg) in quantity, is appropriately packaged and labeled, and complies with the conditions of 40 CFR 261.4(d) or (e).


(e) EPA Address for submittals by postal mail or hand delivery. Submittals required in this subpart to be made by postal mail or hand delivery should be sent to the following addresses: 


(1) For postal mail delivery, the Office of Land and Emergency Management, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, Materials Recovery and Waste Management Division, International Branch (Mail Code 2255A), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20460.


(2) For hand-delivery, the Office of Land and Emergency Management, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery, Materials Recovery and Waste Management Division, International Branch (Mail Code 2255T), Environmental Protection Agency, William Jefferson Clinton West Building, Room 1329, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004.





---

[N] [81 FR 85715, Nov. 28, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 38263, Aug. 6, 2018; 88 FR 54111, Aug. 9, 2023]








