# § 162.017-3   Materials, construction, and workmanship.

(a) The valves shall be of substantial construction and first class workmanship and shall be free from imperfections which may affect its serviceability.


(b) Bodies of pressure-vacuum relief valves must be made of bronze or such corrosion-resistant material as may be approved by the Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center.


(c) Valve discs, spindles, and seats shall be made of bronze or such corrosion-resistant material as may be approved by the Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center.


(d) Where springs are employed to actuate the valve discs, the springs shall be made of corrosion-resistant material. Springs plated with corrosion-resistant material are not acceptable.


(e) Flame screens shall be made of corrosion-resistant wire.


(f) Nonmetallic materials will not be permitted in the construction of the valves, except bushings used in way of moving parts and gaskets may be made of nonmetallic material resistant to attack by the product carried. Nonmetallic diaphragms will be allowed where diaphragm failure will not result in unrestricted flow of cargo vapors to the atmosphere nor in an increase in the pressure or vacuum at which the valve normally releases.


(g) The design and construction of the valves must permit maintenance without removal from the line.




(h) Valve discs shall be guided by a ribbed cage or other suitable means to prevent binding, and to insure proper seating. Where valve stems are guided by bushings suitably designed to prevent binding and to insure proper seating, the valves need not be fitted with ribbed cages.


(i) The disc shall close tight against the valve seat by metal to metal contact, however, resilient seating seals may be provided if the design is such that the disc closes tight against the seat in case the seals are destroyed or in case they carry away.


(j) Pressure-vacuum relief valves for venting cargo tanks shall be of not less than 2
1/2 inches nominal pipe size.


(k) Bodies of valves shall be designed to withstand a hydrostatic pressure of at least 125 pounds per square inch without rupturing or showing permanent distortion.


(l) The valve discs may be solid or made hollow so that weight material may be added to vary the lifting pressure. If hollow discs are employed, a watertight bolted cover shall be fitted to encase the weight material. The pressure at which the discs open shall not exceed 120 percent of the set pressure.


(m) The free area through the valve seats at maximum lift shall not be less than the cross-sectional area of the valve inlet connection.


(n) Double flame screens of 20 × 20 corrosion-resistant wire mesh with a 
1/2-inch corrosion-resistant separator, or a single screen of 30 × 30 corrosion-resistant wire mesh, shall be fitted on all openings to atmosphere. The net free area through the flame screens shall not be less than 1
1/2 times the cross-sectional area of the vent inlet from the cargo tanks.




(o) Valve bodies may have screwed or flanged pipe connections, or such types of connections as may be approved by the Commanding Officer, USCG Marine Safety Center. If flanged, the thickness and drilling shall comply with USA standards for 150-pound bronze flanged fittings.


(p) Where design of valve does not permit complete drainage of condensate to attached cargo tank or vent line, the valve body shall be fitted with a plugged drain opening on the side of the atmospheric outlet of not less than 
1/2 inch pipe size.


(q) Relief pressure adjusting mechanisms shall be permanently secured by means of lockwires, locknuts, or other acceptable means.


(r) Pressure-vacuum relief valves constructed in accordance with ISO 15364 (incorporated by reference; see § 162.017-1) meet the requirements of this subpart and are eligible to receive approval by submitting an application in accordance with § 162.017-6.





---

[N] [CGFR 50-9, 15 FR 1680, Mar. 25, 1950, as amended by CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18907, Dec. 18, 1968; CGD 88-032, 56 FR 35827, July 29, 1991; CGD 95-072, 60 FR 50467, Sept. 29, 1995; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50734, Sept. 27, 1996; USCG-2001-10224, 66 FR 48620, Sept. 21, 2001; USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65202, Oct. 31, 2008; USCG-2020-0519, 89 FR 76704, Sept. 18, 2024]




