# § 309.135   What requirements apply to funding, obligating and liquidating Federal title IV-D grant funds?

(a) *Funding period*—(1) *Ongoing funding.* Federal title IV-D grant funds will be awarded to Tribes and Tribal organizations for use during a 12-month period equivalent to the Federal fiscal year of October 1 through September 30.


(2) *Initial grant.* A Tribe or Tribal organization may request that its initial IV-D grant be awarded for a funding period of less than one year (but at least six months) or more than one year (but not to exceed 17 months) to enable its program funding cycle to coincide with the funding period specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Obligation period.* A Tribe or Tribal organization must obligate its Federal title IV-D grant funds no later than the last day of the funding period for which they were awarded. Any of these funds remaining unobligated after that date must be returned to the Department.


(c) *Liquidation period.* A Tribe or Tribal organization must liquidate the Federal title IV-D grant funds obligated during the obligation period specified in paragraph (b) of this section no later than the last day of the 12-month period immediately following the obligation period. Any of these funds remaining unliquidated after that date must be returned to the Department.


(d) *Funding reductions.* As required under § 309.130(b)(3), a Tribe or Tribal organization will report quarterly on Form SF 269A the amount of Federal title IV-D grant funds that have been obligated and liquidated and the amounts that remain unobligated and unliquidated at the end of each fiscal quarter during the obligation and liquidation periods. The Department will reduce the amount of the Tribe or Tribal organization's Federal title IV-D grant funds for the funding period by any amount reported as remaining unobligated on the report following the last day of the obligation period. The Department will further reduce the amount of the Tribe or Tribal organization's Federal title IV-D grant funds for the funding period by any amount reported as remaining unliquidated on the report following the last day of the liquidation period.


(e) *Extension requests.* A Tribe or Tribal organization may submit a written request for an extension of the deadline for liquidating Federal title IV-D grant funds. Such a request must be sent to ACF, to the attention of the Federal grants officer named on the most recent grant award. The request must be submitted as soon as it is clear that such an extension will be needed; any request received after the end of the liquidation period will not be considered. The request must include a detailed explanation of the extenuating circumstances or other reasons for the request and must state the date by which the Tribe anticipates all obligated funds will be liquidated. Unless the Tribe receives a written approval of its request, the deadline stated in paragraph (c) of this section remains in effect.




