# § 302-6.101   What am I paid under the TQSE-AE reimbursement method?

Your agency will pay your actual TQSE incurred, provided the expenses are reasonable and if expenses exceed the maximum allowable amount, you will not be reimbursed for more than the maximum allowable amount. The “maximum allowable amount” is the “maximum daily amount” multiplied by the number of days you actually incur TQSE not to exceed the number of days authorized, taking into account that the rates change after 30 days in temporary quarters. The “maximum daily amount” (see Note 1 to § 302-6.101) is determined by using the applicable per diem rate (see § 302-6.23) for the locality at the old or new official station or combination thereof, wherever temporary quarters will be occupied, and adding the rates for you and each member of your immediate family authorized to occupy temporary quarters:


(a) For the first 30 days of temporary quarters:


(1) You and/or your unaccompanied spouse or domestic partner (see Note 2 to § 302-6.101) may receive 100 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(2) Your accompanied spouse, domestic partner, or a member of your immediate family who is age 12 or older may receive 50 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(3) A member of your immediate family who is under age 12 may receive 40 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(b) For the second 30 days of temporary quarters:


(1) You and/or your unaccompanied spouse or domestic partner (see Note 2 to § 302-6.101) may receive 75 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(2) Your accompanied spouse, domestic partner, or a member of your immediate family who is age 12 or older may receive 45 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(3) A member of your immediate family who is under age 12 may receive 35 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(c) For any additional days of temporary quarters:


(1) You and/or your unaccompanied spouse or domestic partner (see Note 2 to § 302-6.101) may receive 55 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(2) Your accompanied spouse, domestic partner, or a member of your immediate family who is age 12 or older may receive 40 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


(3) A member of your immediate family who is under age 12 may receive 30 percent of the applicable per diem rate.


