# § 101-8.703   Definitions of terms.

(a) As used in these regulations, the term: *Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (title III of Pub. L. 94-135).


(b) *Action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.


(c) *Age* means how old a person is, or the number of years from the date of a person's birth.


(d) *Age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term.


(e) *Age-related term* means a word or words that imply a particular age or range or ages (for example, *children, adult, older person,* but not *student*).


(f) *Agency* means a Federal department or agency empowered to extend Federal financial assistance.


(g) Agency Responsible Officials:


(1) *Administrator* means the Administrator of General Services.


(2) *Director, Office of Civil Rights* means the individual responsible for managing the agency's nondiscrimination Federal financial assistance policy, or his or her designee.


(h) *Federal financial assistance* means (1) grants and loans of Federal funds, (2) the grant or donation of Federal property and interests in property, (3) the services of Federal personnel, (4) the sale and lease of, and the permission to use (on other than a casual or transient basis), Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purposes of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient, and (5) any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract which has as one of its purposes the provision of assistance.


(i) *GSA* means the United States General Services Administration.


(j) *Primary recipient* means any recipient which is authorized or required to extend Federal financial assistance to another recipient.


(k) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (k)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance: 


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a state or of a local government; 


(ii) The entity of such state and local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other state or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a state or local government; 


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or 


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (k)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(l) *Recipient* means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or any other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assign, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.



---

[N] [50 FR 23412, June 4, 1985, as amended at 68 FR 51375, Aug. 26, 2003]




