# ยง 1217.41   Nominations and appointments.

Nominations shall be conducted as follows:


(a) The Board shall conduct outreach to all segments of the softwood lumber industry. Softwood lumber domestic manufacturers and importers may submit nominations to the Board. Nominees must domestically manufacture and/or import 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber per fiscal year;


(b) Domestic manufacturers, importer, and public member nominees, for both member and alternate positions, may provide the Board a short background statement outlining their qualifications to serve on the Board;




(c) Domestic manufacturer, importer, public member and all alternate nominees may seek nomination to the Board for all open or vacant seats for which the nominees are eligible;




(d) The Board will evaluate all eligible nominees and submit the name of one nominee for each open seat and the name of one additional nominee for each open seat to the Secretary. Other qualified persons interested in serving in the open seats but not recommended by the Board will be designated by the Board as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary;


(e) Nominations for the public member shall be made by the Board. The Board shall submit the names of at least two nominees for the public member seat and at least two nominees for the public member alternate seat to the Secretary.




(f) The Board must submit nominations to the Secretary at least six months before the new Board term begins. From the nominations submitted by the Board, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board;


(g) No two members or alternates shall be employed by a single corporation, company, partnership, or any other legal entity. This includes subsidiaries and affiliates thereof; and




(h) The Board may recommend to the Secretary modifications to its nomination procedures as it deems appropriate. Any such modifications shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.



---

[N] [84 FR 50299, Sept. 25, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]




