# ยง 906.47   Environmental requirements.

(a) *General.* HUD environmental regulations at 24 CFR part 58 apply to this part, unless, under ยง 58.11 of this title, HUD itself performs the environmental review under 24 CFR part 50. The PHA conducting a homeownership program under this part must comply with this section and part 50 or 58, as applicable.


(b) *Assistance to facilitate the purchase of homes.* Where the PHA's homeownership program involves assistance provided under the 1937 Act solely to assist homebuyers to purchase existing dwelling units or dwelling units under construction, an environmental review is not required under part 58 or part 50 of this title. However, the requirements of ยง 58.6 or ยง 50.19(b)(15) of this title are still applicable.


(c) *Public housing units in the PHA's inventory.* Before the PHA rehabilitates or repairs units in its inventory for use for homeownership, or expends or commits HUD or local funds for such activities, the responsible entity must comply with part 58 and the PHA, where required, must submit and receive HUD approval of its request for release of funds, or HUD must have completed any part 50 environmental review and notified the PHA of its approval of the property. HUD may not release funds under this part before the appropriate approval is obtained.


(d) *Units to be acquired with federal funds and used for public housing homeownership.* A PHA may not enter into any contract for acquisition of real property to be used in a homeownership program unless the required environmental reviews have been performed and approvals have been obtained.


(e) *Specific units unidentified.* Where the PHA's homeownership program contemplates acquisition of properties not identified at the time of submission, the PHA must certify that it will comply with this section, including paragraph (f) of this section, prior to such acquisition or construction. HUD may conditionally approve such a homeownership program; however, HUD will not give final approval of any site or unit until the required environmental review has been completed.


(f) *Information.* The PHA shall supply all relevant information necessary for the responsible entity, or HUD, if applicable, to perform the environmental review for each property included in the homeownership program, and, if necessary, shall carry out mitigating measures or select alternate eligible properties. Where HUD performs the environmental review, the PHA shall comply with 24 CFR 50.3(h).


(g) *Non-exclusivity.* Nothing in this section relieves the participating PHA, and its partners and contractors, from complying with all requirements of 24 CFR part 50 or part 58, as applicable.




