# § 721.11007   Alkylaldehyde, reaction products with substituted carbomonocycle-substituted heteromonocycle-alkylene glycol bis[[[[substituted (oxoneoalkyl)oxy]alkyl] amino]alkyl] ether polymer and alkyl substituted alkanediamine, acetate salts (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkylaldehyde, reaction products with substituted carbomonocycle-substituted heteromonocycle-alkylene glycol bis[[[[substituted (oxoneoalkyl)oxy]alkyl] amino]alkyl] ether polymer and alkyl substituted alkanediamine, acetate salts (generic) (PMN P-16-323) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1) (respiratory tract irritation), (g)(1)(i) and (vii), (g)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(j). It is a significant new use to manufacture the PMN substance to contain a residual of formaldehyde greater than 0.1 weight percent. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance in a manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (f), (g), and (h) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [82 FR 48651, Oct. 19, 2017]




