# ยง 172.317   KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling mark.

(a) *General.* For transportation by aircraft, each package containing self-reactive substances of Division 4.1 or organic peroxides of Division 5.2 must be marked with the KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling mark specified in this section.


(b) *Location and design.* The marking must be a rectangle measuring at least 105 mm (4.1 inches) in height by 74 mm (2.9 inches) in width as measured from the outside of the lines forming the border. Markings with not less than half this dimension are permissible where the dimensions of the package can only bear a smaller mark.


(1) *Transitional exception.* A marking in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue to be used until December 31, 2016.


(2) For domestic transportation, a packaging marked prior to January 1, 2017 and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.


(c) *KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling mark.* The KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling mark must conform to the following:


(1) Except for size, the KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling mark must appear as follows: 


(2) The symbol, letters and border must be black and the background white, except for the starburst which must be red.


(3) The KEEP AWAY FROM HEAT handling marking required by paragraph (a) of this section must be durable, legible and displayed on a background of contrasting color.



---

[N] [69 FR 76153, Dec. 20, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 1150, Jan. 8, 2015]




