# § 721.10934   Alkenoic acid, polymer with alkyl alkenoate, alkylalkylalkenoate, alkenoic acid and tridecafluoro alkylalkenoate, compds. with alkylaminoalcanol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkenoic acid, polymer with alkyl alkenoate, alkylalkylalkenoate, alkenoic acid and tridecafluoro alkylalkenoate, compds. with alkylaminoalcanol (PMN P-14-580) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(4), (a)(6) (particulate, gas/vapor or a combination gas/vapor and particulate), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain impurities; and use other described in the consent order) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 81266, Nov. 17, 2016]




