# ยง 763.123   May a State implement its own asbestos worker protection plan?

This section describes the process under which a State may be exempted from the requirements of this subpart. 


(a) *States seeking an exemption.* If your State wishes to implement its own asbestos worker protection plan, rather than complying with the requirements of this subpart, your State must apply for and receive an exemption from EPA. 


(1) *What must my State do to apply for an exemption?* To apply for an exemption from the requirements of this subpart, your State must send to the Director of EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT) a copy of its asbestos worker protection regulations and a detailed explanation of how your State's asbestos worker protection plan meets the requirements of TSCA section 18 (15 U.S.C. 2617). 


(2) *What action will EPA take on my State's application for an exemption?* EPA will review your State's application and make a preliminary determination whether your State's asbestos worker protection plan meets the requirements of TSCA section 18. 


(i) If EPA's preliminary determination is that your State's plan does meet the requirements of TSCA section 18, EPA will initiate a rulemaking, including an opportunity for public comment, to exempt your State from the requirements of this subpart. After considering any comments, EPA will issue a final rule granting or denying the exemption. 


(ii) If EPA's preliminary determination is that the State plan does not meet the requirements of TSCA section 18, EPA will notify your State in writing and will give your State a reasonable opportunity to respond to that determination. 


(iii) If EPA does not grant your State an exemption, then the State and local government employers in your State are subject to the requirements of this subpart. 


(b) *States that have been granted an exemption.* If EPA has exempted your State from the requirements of this subpart, your State must update its asbestos worker protection regulations as necessary to implement changes to meet the requirements of this subpart, and must apply to EPA for an amendment to its exemption. 


(1) *What must my State do to apply for an amendment to its exemption?* To apply for an amendment to its exemption, your State must send to the Director of OPPT a copy of its updated asbestos worker protection regulations and a detailed explanation of how your State's updated asbestos worker protection plan meets the requirements of TSCA section 18. Your State must submit its application for an amendment within 6 months of the effective date of any changes to the requirements of this subpart, or within a reasonable time agreed upon by your State and OPPT. 


(2) *What action will EPA take on my State's application for an amendment?* EPA will review your State's application for an amendment and make a preliminary determination whether your State's updated asbestos worker protection plan meets the requirements of TSCA section 18. 


(i) If EPA determines that the updated State plan does meet the requirements of TSCA section 18, EPA will issue your State an amended exemption. 


(ii) If EPA determines that the updated State plan does not meet the requirements of TSCA section 18, EPA will notify your State in writing and will give your State a reasonable opportunity to respond to that determination. 


(iii) If EPA does not grant your State an amended exemption, or if your State does not submit a timely request for amended exemption, then the State and local government employers in your State are subject to the requirements of this subpart.




