# ยง 57.02-2   Adoption of Section IX of the ASME BPVC.

(a) The qualifications for all types of welders and brazers, the qualification of welding procedures, and the production tests for all types of manual and machine arc and gas welding and brazing processes used in fabricating power boilers, heating boilers, pressure vessels and piping must be in accordance with Section IX of the ASME BPVC (incorporated by reference; see ยง 57.02-1), as limited, modified, or replaced by specific requirements in this part. For general information, table 1 to ยง 57.02-2(a) lists the various paragraphs in Section IX of the ASME BPVC which are limited, modified, or replaced by regulations in this part.


(b) References to the ASME Code, like paragraph QW-131.1 indicate:


(1) Q = Section IX, Welding and Brazing Qualifications, ASME BPVC.


(2) W = Part containing requirements for welding procedure, welder, and welding operator qualifications.


(3) 131 = Major division within the part.


(4) 131.1 = Specific subparagraph within the part.


(c) When a paragraph or a section of the regulations in this part relates to material in Section IX of the ASME BPVC, the relationship with the code will be shown immediately following the heading of the section or at the beginning of the paragraph as follows:


(1) (Modifies Q__.) This indicates that the material in Q__ is generally applicable but is being altered, amplified, or augmented.


(2) (Replaces Q__.) This indicates that Q__ does not apply.


(3) (Reproduces Q__.) This indicates that Q__ is being identically reproduced for convenience, not for emphasis.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18872, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by CGFR 69-127, 35 FR 9980, June 17, 1970; CGD 74-102, 40 FR 27460, June 30, 1975. Redesignated by CGD 88-032, 56 FR 35823, July 29, 1991; CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48050, Sept. 18, 1995]




