# § 457.965   Documentation.

(a) *Basis and purpose.* This section, based on section 2101 of the Act, prescribes the kinds of records a State must maintain, the minimum retention period for such records, and the conditions under which those records must be provided or made available.


(b) *Content of records.* A State plan must provide that the State will maintain or supervise the maintenance of the records necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the plan. The records must include all of the following:


(1) Individual records on each applicant and enrollee that contain all of the following:


(i) All information provided on the initial application submitted through any modality described in § 435.907(a) of this chapter as referenced in § 457.330, by, or on behalf of, the applicant or enrollee, including the signature on and date of application.


(ii) The electronic account and any information or other documentation received from another insurance affordability program in accordance with § 457.348(b) and (c).


(iii) The date of, basis for, and all documents or other evidence to support any determination, denial, or other adverse action, including decisions made at application, renewal, and a result of a change in circumstance, taken with respect to the applicant or enrollee, including all information provided by the applicant or enrollee, and all information obtained electronically or otherwise by the State from third-party sources.


(iv) The provision of, and payment for, services, items and other child health assistance or pregnancy-related assistance, including the service or item provided, relevant diagnoses, the date that the item or service was provided, the practitioner or provider rendering, providing or prescribing the service or item, including their National Provider Identifier, and the full amount paid or reimbursed for the service or item, and any third-party liabilities.


(v) Any changes in circumstances reported by the individual and any actions taken by the State in response to such reports.


(vi) All renewal forms returned by, or on behalf of, a beneficiary, to the State in accordance with § 457.343, regardless of the modality through which such forms are submitted, including the signature on the form and date received.


(vii) All notices provided to the applicant or enrollee in accordance with § 457.340(e) and § 457.1180.


(viii) All records pertaining to any State reviews requested by, or on behalf of, the applicant or enrollee, including each request submitted and the date of such request, the complete record of the review decision, as described in subpart K of this part, and the final administrative action taken by the agency following the review decision and date of such action.


(ix) The disposition of income and eligibility verification information received under § 457.380, including evidence that no information was returned from an electronic data source.


(2) Statistical, fiscal, and other records necessary for reporting and accountability as required by the Secretary.


(c) *Retention of records.* The State plan must provide that the records required under paragraph (b) of this section will be retained for the period when the applicant or enrollee's case is active, plus a minimum of 3 years thereafter.


(d) *Accessibility and availability of records.* The agency must—


(1) Maintain the records described in paragraph (b) of this section in an electronic format; and


(2) To the extent permitted under Federal law, make the records available to the Secretary, Federal and State auditors and other parties who request, and are authorized to review, such records within 30 calendar days of the request (or longer period specified in the request), except when there is an administrative or other emergency beyond the agency's control.


(e) *Release and safeguarding information.* The State must provide safeguards that restrict the use or disclosure of information contained in the records described in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 457.1110.



---

[N] [89 FR 22877, Apr. 2, 2024]






















