# ยง 18.4   Assurances required.

(a) *General.* (1) Every application for Federal financial assistance to which this part applies, except an application to which paragraph (b) of this section applies, and every application for Federal financial assistance to provide a facility shall, as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application, contain or be accompanied by an assurance that the program will be conducted or the facility operated in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. Every award of Federal financial assistance shall require the submission of such an assurance. In the case of an application for Federal financial assistance to provide real property or structures thereon, the assurance shall obligate the recipient, or, in the case of a subsequent transfer, the transferee, for the period during which the real property or structures are used for a purpose for which the Federal financial assistance is extended or for another purpose involving the provision of similar services or benefits. In the case of personal property the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which the recipient retains ownership or possession of the property. In all other cases the assurance shall obligate the recipient for the period during which Federal financial assistance is extended pursuant to the application. The responsible agency official shall specify the form of the foregoing assurances and the extent to which like assurances will be required of subgrantees, contractors and subcontractors, transferees, successors in interest, and other participants. Any such assurance shall include provisions which give the United States a right to seek its judicial enforcement. 


(2) Transfers of surplus property are subject to regulations issued by the Administrator of General Services (41 CFR subpart 101-6.2). 


(b) *Continuing Federal financial assistance.* Every application by a State or a State agency for continuing Federal financial assistance to which this part applies (including the types of Federal financial assistance listed in appendix A to this subpart) shall as a condition to its approval and the extension of any Federal financial assistance pursuant to the application (1) contain or be accompanied by a statement that the program is (or, in the case of a new program, will be) conducted in compliance with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part, and (2) provide or be accompanied by provision for such methods of administration for the program as are found by the responsible agency official to give reasonable assurance that the applicant and all recipients of Federal financial assistance under such program will comply with all requirements imposed by or pursuant to this part. In any case in which the recipient is claiming financial assistance pursuant to arrangements entered into prior to the effective date of this part, the assurances provided by this paragraph shall be included in the first application or claim for assistance on or after the effective date of this part. 


(c) *Elementary and secondary schools.* The requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section with respect to any elementary or secondary school or school system shall be deemed to be satisfied if such school or school system (1) is subject to a final order of a court of the United States for the desegregation of such school or school system, and provides an assurance that it will comply with such order, including any future modification of such order, or (2) submits a plan for the desegregation of such school or school system which the responsible agency official determines is adequate to accomplish the purposes of the Act and this part, at the earliest practicable time, and provides reasonable assurance that it will carry out such plan; in any case of continuing Federal financial assistance the responsible agency official may reserve the right to redetermine, after such period as may be specified by the official, the adequacy of the plan to accomplish the purposes of the Act and this part. In any case in which a final order of a court of the United States for the desegregation of such school or school system is entered after submission of such a plan, such plan shall be revised to conform to such final order, including any future modification of such order. 


(d) *Extent of application to institution or facility.* In the case where any assurances are required from an academic, a medical care, or any other institution or facility, insofar as the assurances relate to the institution's practices with respect to the admission, care, or other treatment of persons by the institution or with respect to the opportunity of persons to participate in the receiving or providing of services, treatment, or benefits, such assurances shall be applicable to the entire institution or facility.



---

[N] [38 FR 17965, July 5, 1973. Redesignated at 45 FR 63268, Sept. 24, 1980, and amended at 51 FR 10384, Mar. 26, 1986; 68 FR 51369, Aug. 26, 2003] 




