# § 32.57   Pennsylvania.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Cherry Valley National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must obtain and possess a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal shooting time and must leave no later than 2 hours after legal shooting time.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, grouse, rabbit, pheasant, quail, woodchuck, crow, fox, raccoon, opossum, skunk, weasel, coyote, chukar, and bobcat on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The Cherry Creek section located on the former Cherry Valley Golf Course is open for catch-and-release fishing. Anglers at this location must:


(A) Obtain a day-use fishing permit (signed brochure). A maximum of three anglers per day may share the same permit; and


(B) Use only artificial lures and barbless hooks to fish.


(ii) We allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow only nonmotorized or electric-motor boats in designated areas.


(iv) We prohibit the use of eel chutes, eelpots, and fyke nets.


(v) We prohibit trapping fish for use as bait.


(vi) We prohibit the take, collection, capture, killing, and possession of any reptile or amphibian on the refuge.


(b) *Erie National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of mourning dove, woodcock, rail, Wilson's snipe, Canada goose, duck, coot, mute swan, and crow on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting and scouting activities on the refuge from September 1 through the end of February. We also allow scouting the 7 days prior to the start of each season.


(ii) We allow use of nonmotorized boats only for waterfowl hunting in permitted areas.


(iii) We prohibit field possession of migratory game birds in areas of the refuge closed to migratory game bird hunting.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of ruffed grouse, squirrel, rabbit, woodchuck, pheasant, quail, raccoon, fox, coyote, skunk, weasel, porcupine, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow woodchuck hunting on the refuge from September 1 through the end of February.


(ii) We prohibit the use of raptors to take small game.


(iii) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section applies.


(iv) We prohibit night hunting. Hunters may access the refuge 2 hours before sunrise and must leave no later than 2 hours after sunset.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, bear, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting of feral hogs on the refuge from September 1 through the end of February.


(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section applies.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow nonmotorized watercraft use in Area 5. Watercraft must remain in the area from the dike to 3,000 feet (900 meters) upstream.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of turtle or frog (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We prohibit the collection or release of baitfish. Possession of live baitfish is prohibited on the Seneca Division.


(iv) We prohibit the taking or possession of shellfish on the refuge.


(v) We allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.






(c) *John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge at Tinicum.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow archery-only hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Hunters must possess a refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing on the refuge from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) Anglers may only operate boats, canoes, and floats in tidal waters.


(iii) We prohibit bowfishing or spearfishing on the refuge.


(iv) We prohibit the take, collection, or capture of any reptile or amphibian on the refuge.


(d) *Ohio River Islands National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.67(b) for regulations.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54137, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48875, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57131, Sept. 16, 2022]




