# ยง 60.301   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part. 


(a) *Grain* means corn, wheat, sorghum, rice, rye, oats, barley, and soybeans. 


(b) *Grain elevator* means any plant or installation at which grain is unloaded, handled, cleaned, dried, stored, or loaded. 


(c) *Grain terminal elevator* means any grain elevator which has a permanent storage capacity of more than 88,100 m
3 (ca. 2.5 million U.S. bushels), except those located at animal food manufacturers, pet food manufacturers, cereal manufacturers, breweries, and livestock feedlots.


(d) *Permanent storage capacity* means grain storage capacity which is inside a building, bin, or silo. 


(e) *Railcar* means railroad hopper car or boxcar.


(f) *Grain storage elevator* means any grain elevator located at any wheat flour mill, wet corn mill, dry corn mill (human consumption), rice mill, or soybean oil extraction plant which has a permanent grain storage capacity of 35,200 m
3 (ca. 1 million bushels).


(g) *Process emission* means the particulate matter which is collected by a capture system.


(h) *Fugitive emission* means the particulate matter which is not collected by a capture system and is released directly into the atmosphere from an affected facility at a grain elevator.


(i) *Capture system* means the equipment such as sheds, hoods, ducts, fans, dampers, etc. used to collect particulate matter generated by an affected facility at a grain elevator.


(j) *Grain unloading station* means that portion of a grain elevator where the grain is transferred from a truck, railcar, barge, or ship to a receiving hopper.


(k) *Grain loading station* means that portion of a grain elevator where the grain is transferred from the elevator to a truck, railcar, barge, or ship.


(l) *Grain handling operations* include bucket elevators or legs (excluding legs used to unload barges or ships), scale hoppers and surge bins (garners), turn heads, scalpers, cleaners, trippers, and the headhouse and other such structures.


(m) *Column dryer* means any equipment used to reduce the moisture content of grain in which the grain flows from the top to the bottom in one or more continuous packed columns between two perforated metal sheets.


(n) *Rack dryer* means any equipment used to reduce the moisture content of grain in which the grain flows from the top to the bottom in a cascading flow around rows of baffles (racks).


(o) *Unloading leg* means a device which includes a bucket-type elevator which is used to remove grain from a barge or ship.



---

[N] [43 FR 34347, Aug. 3, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 61759, Oct. 17, 2000]




