# § 209.1   Authority, purpose, scope, and definitions.

(a) *Authority.* This part is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 222, 248, 282, 286-288, 289, 321, 323, 327-328, and 466.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to implement the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act relating to the issuance and cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank stock upon becoming or ceasing to be a member bank, or upon changes in the capital and surplus of a member bank, of the Federal Reserve System. This part also implements the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act relating to the payment of dividends to member banks.


(c) *Scope.* This part applies to member banks of the Federal Reserve System, to national banks in process of organization, and to state banks applying for membership. National banks and locally-incorporated banks located in United States dependencies and possessions are eligible (with the consent of the Board) but not required to apply for membership under section 19(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 466.
1

(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this part—


(1) *Capital Stock and Surplus.* Capital stock and surplus of a member bank means the paid-in capital stock 
2 and paid-in surplus of the bank, less any deficit in the aggregate of its retained earnings, gains (losses) on available for sale securities, and foreign currency translation accounts, all as shown on the bank's most recent report of condition. Paid-in capital stock and paid-in surplus of a bank in organization means the amount which is to be paid in at the time the bank commences business.


(2) *Dividend proration basis* means the use of a 360-day year of 12 30-day months for purposes of computing dividend payments.


(3) *Total consolidated assets* means the total assets on the stockholder's balance sheet as reported by the stockholder on its Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) as of the most recent December 31, except in the case of:


(i) A new member “total consolidated assets” means (until the next December 31 Call Report becomes available) the total consolidated assets of the new member at the time of its application for capital stock; and


(ii) A surviving stockholder after a merger “total consolidated assets” means (until the next December 31 Call Report becomes available) the total consolidated assets reported by that stockholder pursuant to § 209.3(d)(5).



---

[N] [63 FR 37663, July 13, 1998, as amended by Reg. I, 81 FR 9087, Feb. 24, 2016; 87 FR 2030, Jan. 13, 2022]




