# ยง 455.510   Payments to RACs.

(a) *General.* Fees paid to RACs must be made only from amounts recovered.


(b) *Overpayments.* States must determine the contingency fee rate to be paid to Medicaid RACs for the identification and recovery of Medicaid provider overpayments.


(1) The contingency fees paid to Medicaid RACs must be based on a percentage of the overpayment recovered.


(2) States must determine at what stage in the Medicaid RAC audit process, after an overpayment has been recovered, Medicaid RACs will receive contingency fee payments.


(3) If a provider appeals a Medicaid RAC overpayment determination and the determination is reversed, at any level, then the Medicaid RAC must return the contingency fees associated with that payment within a reasonable timeframe, as prescribed by the State.


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (5) of this section, the contingency fee may not exceed that of the highest Medicare RAC, as specified by CMS in the _Federal Register,_ unless the State submits, and CMS approves, a waiver of the specified maximum rate. If a State does not obtain a waiver of the specified maximum rate, any amount exceeding the specified maximum rate is not eligible for FFP, either from the collected overpayment amounts, or in the form of any other administrative or medical assistance claimed expenditure.


(5) CMS will review and consider, on a case-by-case basis, a State's well-justified request that CMS provide FFP in paying a Medicaid RAC(s) a contingency fee in excess of the then-highest contingency fee paid to a Medicare RAC.


(c) *Underpayments.* (1) States must determine the fee paid to a Medicaid RAC to identify underpayments.


(2) States must adequately incentivize the detection of underpayments.


(3) States must notify providers of underpayments that are identified by the RACs.




