# ยง 511.34   Requests for admission.

(a) *Procedure for request.* A party may serve upon any other party a written request for the admission, for the purposes of the pending proceeding only, of the truth of any matters within the scope of ยง 511.31(c)(1) set forth in the request that relate to statements or opinions of fact or of the application of law to fact, including the genuineness of documents described in the request. Copies of documents shall be served with the request unless they have been, or are otherwise furnished or made available for inspection and copying. The request may, without leave of the Presiding Officer, be served upon any party after filing of the answer. Each matter as to which an admission is requested shall be separately set forth.


(b) *Procedure for response.* The matter as to which an admission is requested is deemed admitted unless within thirty (30) days after service of the request, or within such shorter or longer time as the Presiding Officer may allow, the party to whom the request is directed serves upon the party requesting the admission a written answer or objection addressed to the matter, signed by the party or the party's representatives. If objection is made, the reasons therefore shall be stated.


(c) *Effect of admission.* Any matter admitted under this section is conclusively established unless the Presiding Officer on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of such admission. The Presiding Officer may permit withdrawal or amendment when the presentation of the merits of the action will be served thereby and the party that obtained the admission fails to satisfy the Presiding Officer that withdrawal or amendment will prejudice that party in maintaining an action or defense on the merits.




