# § 721.11084   Alkyl substituted alkenoic acid, alkyl ester, polymer with alkyl substituted alkenoate and alkenoic acid, hydroxy substituted[(oxoalkyl)oxy]alkyl ester, reaction products with alkanoic acid, dipentaerythritil and isocyanate substituted carbomonocycle, compds. with alkylamine (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkyl substituted alkenoic acid, alkyl ester, polymer with alkyl substituted alkenoate and alkenoic acid, hydroxy substituted[(oxoalkyl)oxy]alkyl ester, reaction products with alkanoic acid, dipentaerythritil and isocyanate substituted carbomonocycle, compds. with alkylamine (PMN P-17-10) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(6)(particulate), (a)(6)(v), (vi), (b)(concentration set at 0.1%), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 0.1%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (sensitization), (g)(1)(vii), (systemic effects), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (k)(ultraviolet curable coating resin), and (y)(1). It is a significant new use to manufacture the chemical substance with an average molecular weight below 2,000 daltons or containing greater than 0.1% residual isocyanate. It is a significant new use to import the substance other than in totes.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 49050, Sept. 18, 2019]




