# § 134.23   Containers or holders designed for or capable of reuse.

(a) *Usual and ordinary reusable containers or holders.* Except for goods of a NAFTA or USMCA country which are usual containers, containers or holders designed for or capable of reuse after the contents have been consumed, whether imported full or empty, must be individually marked to indicate the country of their own origin with a marking such as, “Container Made in (name of country).” Examples of the containers or holders contemplated are heavy duty steel drums, tanks, and other similar shipping, storage, transportation containers or holders capable of reuse. These containers or holders are subject to the treatment specified in General Rule of Interpretation 5(b), Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).


(b) *Other reusable containers or holders.* Containers or holders which give the whole importation its essential character, as described in General Rule of Interpretation 5(a) (19 U.S.C. 1202), must be individually marked to clearly indicate their own origin with a marking such as, “Container made in (name of country).” Examples of the containers contemplated are mustard jars reusable as beer mugs; shaving soap containers reusable as shaving mugs; fancy cologne bottles reusable as flower vases, and other containers which have a lasting value or decorative use.



---

[N] [T.D. 72-262, 37 FR 20318, Sept. 29, 1972, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51256, Dec. 21, 1988; T.D. 94-1, 58 FR 69471, Dec. 30, 1993; CBP Dec. 21-10, 86 FR 35582, July 6, 2021]




