# § 414.24   Publication of RVUs and direct PE inputs.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


*Existing code* means a code that is not a new code under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and includes codes for which the descriptor is revised and codes that are combinations or subdivisions of previously existing codes.


*New code* means a code that describes a service that was not previously described or valued under the PFS using any other code or combination of codes.


(b) *Revisions of RVUs and Direct PE Inputs.* For valuations for calendar year 2017 and beyond, CMS publishes, through notice and comment rulemaking in the _Federal Register_ (including proposals in a proposed rule), changes in RVUs or direct PE inputs for existing codes.


(c) *Establishing RVUs and Direct PE inputs for new codes*—(1) *General rule.* CMS establishes RVUs and direct PE inputs for new codes in the manner described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) *Exception for new codes for which CMS does not have sufficient information.* When CMS determines for a new code that it does not have sufficient information to include proposed RVUs or direct PE inputs in the proposed rule, but that it is in the public interest for Medicare to use a new code during a payment year, CMS will publish in the _Federal Register_ RVUs and direct PE inputs that are applicable on an interim basis subject to public comment. After considering public comments and other information on interim RVUs and PE inputs for the new code, CMS publishes in the _Federal Register_ the final RVUs and PE inputs for the code.


(d) *Values for local codes (HCPCS Level 3).* (1) Carriers establish relative values for local codes for services not included in HCPCS levels 1 or 2.


(2) Carriers must obtain prior approval from CMS to establish local codes for services that meet the definition of “physician services” in § 414.2.



---

[N] [56 FR 59624, Nov. 25, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 42492, Sept. 15, 1992; 79 FR 68003, Nov. 13, 2014]




