# § 425.613   Telehealth services.

(a) *General.* Payment is available for otherwise covered telehealth services furnished on or after January 1, 2020, by a physician or other practitioner billing through the TIN of an ACO participant in an applicable ACO, without regard to the geographic requirements under section 1834(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Act, in accordance with the requirements of this section.


(1) For purposes of this section:


(i) An applicable ACO is an ACO that is participating under a two-sided model under § 425.600 and has elected prospective assignment under § 425.400(a)(3) for the performance year.


(ii) The home of the beneficiary is treated as an originating site under section 1834(m)(4)(C)(ii) of the Act.


(2) For payment to be made under this section, the following requirements must be met:


(i) The beneficiary is prospectively assigned to the ACO for the performance year in which the beneficiary received the telehealth service.


(ii) The physician or practitioner who furnishes the telehealth service must bill under the TIN of an ACO participant that is included on the certified ACO participant list under § 425.118 for the performance year in which the service is rendered.


(iii) The originating site must comply with applicable State licensing requirements.


(iv) When the originating site is the beneficiary's home, the telehealth services must not be inappropriate to furnish in the home setting. Services that are typically furnished in an inpatient setting may not be furnished as a telehealth service when the originating site is the beneficiary's home.


(v) CMS does not pay a facility fee when the originating site is the beneficiary's home.


(b) *Beneficiary protections.* (1) When a beneficiary who is not prospectively assigned to an applicable ACO or in a 90-day grace period under § 425.612(f) receives a telehealth service from a physician or practitioner billing through the TIN of an ACO participant participating in an applicable ACO, CMS makes no payment for the telehealth service to the ACO participant.


(2) In the event that CMS makes no payment for a telehealth service furnished by a physician or practitioner billing through the TIN of an ACO participant, and the only reason the claim was non-covered is because the beneficiary is not prospectively assigned to the ACO or in the 90-day grace period under § 425.612(f), all of the following beneficiary protections apply:


(i) The ACO participant must not charge the beneficiary for the expenses incurred for such service.


(ii) The ACO participant must return to the beneficiary any monies collected for such service.


(iii) The ACO may be required to submit a corrective action plan under § 425.216(b) for CMS approval. If the ACO is required to submit a corrective action plan and, after being given an opportunity to act upon the corrective action plan, the ACO fails to implement the corrective action plan or demonstrate improved performance upon completion of the corrective action plan, CMS may terminate the participation agreement as specified under § 425.216(b)(2).


(c) *Termination date for purposes of payment for telehealth services.* (1) Payment for telehealth services under paragraph (a) of this section does not extend beyond the end of the applicable ACO's participation agreement.


(2) If CMS terminates the participation agreement under § 425.218, payment for telehealth services under paragraph (a) of this section is not made with respect to telehealth services furnished beginning on the date specified by CMS in the termination notice.


(3) If the ACO terminates the participation agreement, payment for telehealth services under paragraph (a) of this section is not made with respect to telehealth services furnished beginning on the effective date of termination as specified in the written notification required under § 425.220.


(d) *Monitoring of telehealth services.* (1) CMS monitors and audits the use of telehealth services by the ACO and its ACO participants and ACO providers/suppliers, in accordance with § 425.316.


(2) CMS reserves the right to take compliance action, up to and including termination of the participation agreement, as specified in §§ 425.216 and 425.218, with respect to an applicable ACO for non-compliance with program requirements, including inappropriate use of telehealth services.



---

[N] [83 FR 68081, Dec. 31, 2018]










