# § 1.461-4   Economic performance.

(a) *Introduction*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of determining whether an accrual basis taxpayer can treat the amount of any liability (as defined in § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)(B)) as incurred, the all events test is not treated as met any earlier than the taxable year in which economic performance occurs with respect to the liability.


(2) *Overview.* Paragraph (b) of this section lists exceptions to the economic performance requirement. Paragraph (c) of this section provides cross-references to the definitions of certain terms for purposes of section 461 (h) and the regulations thereunder. Paragraphs (d) through (m) of this section and § 1.461-6 provide rules for determining when economic performance occurs. Section 1.461-5 provides rules relating to an exception under which certain recurring items may be incurred for the taxable year before the year during which economic performance occurs.


(b) *Exceptions to the economic performance requirement.* Paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(B) of § 1.461-1 provides examples of liabilities that are taken into account under rules that operate without regard to the all events test (including economic performance).


(c) *Definitions.* The following cross-references identify certain terms defined for purposes of section 461(h) and the regulations thereunder:


(1) *Liability.* See paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B)d of § 1.446-1 for the definition of “liability.”


(2) *Payment.* See paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section for the definition of “payment.”


(d) *Liabilities arising out of the provision of services, property, or the use of property*—(1) *In general.* The principles of this paragraph (d) determine when economic performance occurs with respect to liabilities arising out of the performance of services, the transfer of property, or the use of property. This paragraph (d) does not apply to liabilities described in paragraph (e) (relating to interest expense) or paragraph (g) (relating to breach of contract, workers compensation, tort, etc.) of this section. In addition, except as otherwise provided in Internal Revenue regulations, revenue procedures, or revenue rulings this paragraph (d) does not apply to amounts paid pursuant to a notional principal contract. The Commissioner may provide additional rules in regulations, revenue procedures, or revenue rulings concerning the time at which economic performance occurs for items described in this paragraph (d).


(2) *Services or property provided to the Taxpayer*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, if the liability of a taxpayer arises out of the providing of services or property to the taxpayer by another person, economic performance occurs as the services or property is provided.


(ii) *Long-term contracts.* In the case of any liability of a taxpayer described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section that is an expense attributable to a long-term contract with respect to which the taxpayer uses the percentage of completion method, economic performance occurs—


(A) As the services or property is provided; or, if earlier,


(B) As the taxpayer makes payment (as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section) in satisfaction of the liability to the person providing the services or property. See paragraph (k)(2) of this section for the effective date of this paragraph (d)(2)(ii).


(iii) *Employee benefits*—(A) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in any Internal Revenue regulation, revenue procedure, or revenue ruling, the economic performance requirement is satisfied to the extent that any amount is otherwise deductible under section 404 (employer contributions to a plan of deferred compensation), section 404A (certain foreign deferred compensation plans), and section 419 (welfare benefit funds). See § 1.461-1(a)(2)(iii)(D).


(B) *Property transferred in connection with performance of services.* [Reserved]


(iv) *Cross-references.* See *Examples 4* through *6* of paragraph (d)(7) of this section. See paragraph (d)(6) of this section for rules relating to when a taxpayer may treat services or property as provided to the taxpayer.


(3) *Use of property provided to the taxpayer*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(3)d and paragraph (d)(5) of this section, if the liability of a taxpayer arises out of the use of property by the taxpayer, economic performance occurs ratably over the period of time the taxpayer is entitled to the use of the property (taking into account any reasonably expected renewal periods when necessary to carry out the purposes of section 461(h)). See *Examples 6* through *9* of paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(ii) *Exceptions*—(A) *Volume, frequency of use, or income.* If the liability of a taxpayer arises out of the use of property by the taxpayer and all or a portion of the liability is determined by reference to the frequency or volume of use of the property or the income from the property, economic performance occurs for the portion of the liability determined by reference to the frequency or volume of use of the property or the income from the property as the taxpayer uses the property or includes income from the property. See *Examples 8* and *9* of paragraph (d)(7) of this section. This paragraph (d)(3)(ii) shall not apply if the District Director determines, that based on the substance of the transaction, the liability of the taxpayer for use of the property is more appropriately measured ratably over the period of time the taxpayer is entitled to the use of the property.


(B) *Section 467 rental agreements.* In the case of a liability arising out of the use of property pursuant to a section 467 rental agreement, economic performance occurs as provided in § 1.461-1(a)(2)(iii)(E).


(4) *Services or property provided by the taxpayer*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, if the liability of a taxpayer requires the taxpayer to provide services or property to another person, economic performance occurs as the taxpayer incurs costs (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)) in connection with the satisfaction of the liability. See *Examples 1* through *3* of paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(ii) *Barter transactions.* If the liability of a taxpayer requires the taxpayer to provide services, property, or the use of property, and arises out of the use of property by the taxpayer, or out of the provision of services or property to the taxpayer by another person, economic performance occurs to the extent of the lesser of—


(A) The cumulative extent to which the taxpayer incurs costs (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)) in connection with its liability to provide the services of property; or


(B) The cumulative extent to which the services or property is provided to the taxpayer.


(5) *Liabilities that are assumed in connection with the sale of a trade or business*—(i) *In general.* If, in connection with the sale or exchange of a trade or business by a taxpayer, the purchaser expressly assumes a liability arising out of the trade or business that the taxpayer but for the economic performance requirement would have been entitled to incur as of the date of the sale, economic performance with respect to that liability occurs as the amount of the liability is properly included in the amount realized on the transaction by the taxpayer. See § 1.1001-2 for rules relating to the inclusion in amount realized from a discharge of liabilities resulting from a sale or exchange.


(ii) *Trade or business.* For purposes of this paragraph (d)(5), a trade or business is a specific group of activities carried on by the taxpayer for the purpose of earning income or profit if every operation that is necessary to the process of earning income or profit is included in the group. Thus, for example, the group of activities generally must include the collection of income and the payment of expenses.


(iii) *Tax avoidance.* This paragraph (d)(5) does not apply if the District Director determines that tax avoidance is one of the taxpayer's principal purposes for the sale or exchange.


(6) *Rules relating to the provision of services or property to a taxpayer.* The following rules apply for purposes of this paragraph (d):


(i) Services or property provided to a taxpayer include services or property provided to another person at the direction of the taxpayer.


(ii) A taxpayer is permitted to treat services or property as provided to the taxpayer as the taxpayer makes payment to the person providing the services or property (as defined in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section), if the taxpayer can reasonably expect the person to provide the services or property within 3
1/2 months after the date of payment.


(iii) A taxpayer is permitted to treat property as provided to the taxpayer when the property is delivered or accepted, or when title to the property passes. The method used by the taxpayer to determine when property is provided is a method of accounting that must comply with the rules of § 1.446-1(e). Thus, the method of determining when property is provided must be used consistently from year to year, and cannot be changed without the consent of the Commissioner.


(iv) If different services or items of property are required to be provided to a taxpayer under a single contract or agreement, economic performance generally occurs over the time each service is provided and as each item of property is provided. However, if a service or item of property to be provided to the taxpayer is incidental to other services or property to be provided under a contract or agreement, the taxpayer is not required to allocate any portion of the total contract price to the incidental service or property. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6)(iv), services or property is treated as incidental only if—


(A) The cost of the services or property is treated on the taxpayer's books and records as part of the cost of the other services or property provided under the contract; and


(B) The aggregate cost of the services or property does not exceed 10 percent of the total contract price.


(7) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (d). For purposes of these examples, it is assumed that the requirements of the all events test other than economic performance have been met, and that the recurring item exception is not used. Assume further that the examples do not involve section 467 rental agreements and, therefore, section 467 is not applicable. The examples are as follows:


(e) *Interest.* In the case of interest, economic performance occurs as the interest cost economically accrues, in accordance with the principles of relevant provisions of the Code.


(f) *Timing of deductions from notional principal contracts.* Economic performance on a notional principal contract occurs as provided under § 1.446-3.


(g) *Certain liabilities for which payment is economic performance*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Person to which payment must be made.* In the case of liabilities described in paragraphs (g) (2) through (7) of this section, economic performance occurs when, and to the extent that, payment is made to the person to which the liability is owed. Thus, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section and § 1.461-6, economic performance does not occur as a taxpayer makes payments in connection with such a liability to any other person, including a trust, escrow account, court-administered fund, or any similar arrangement, unless the payments constitute payment to the person to which the liability is owed under paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. Instead, economic performance occurs as payments are made from that other person or fund to the person to which the liability is owed. The amount of economic performance that occurs as payment is made from the other person or fund to the person to which the liability is owed may not exceed the amount the taxpayer transferred to the other person or fund. For special rules relating to the taxation of amounts transferred to “qualified settlement funds,” see section 468B and the regulations thereunder. The Commissioner may provide additional rules in regulations, revenue procedures, and revenue rulings concerning the time at which economic performance occurs for items described in this paragraph (g).


(ii) *Payment to person to which liability is owed.* Paragraph (d)(6) of this section provides that for purposes of paragraph (d) of this section (relating to the provision of services or property to the taxpayer) in certain cases a taxpayer may treat services or property as provided to the taxpayer as the taxpayer makes payments to the person providing the services or property. In addition, this paragraph (g) provides that in the case of certain liabilities of a taxpayer, economic performance occurs as the taxpayer makes payment to persons specified therein. For these and all other purposes of section 461(h) and the regulations thereunder:


(A) *Payment.* The term *payment* has the same meaning as is used when determining whether a taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting has made a payment. Thus, for example, payment includes the furnishing of cash or cash equivalents and the netting of offsetting accounts. Payment does not include the furnishing of a note or other evidence of indebtedness of the taxpayer, whether or not the evidence is guaranteed by any other instrument (including a standby letter of credit) or by any third party (including a government agency). As a further example, payment does not include a promise of the taxpayer to provide services or property in the future (whether or not the promise is evidenced by a contract or other witten agreement). In addition, payment does not include an amount transferred as a loan, refundable deposit, or contingent payment.


(B) *Person to which payment is made.* Payment to a particular person is accomplished if paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A) of this section is satisfied and a cash basis taxpayer in the position of that person would be treated as having actually or constructively received the amount of the payment as gross income under the principles of section 451 (without regard to section 104(a) or any other provision that specifically excludes the amount from gross income). Thus, for example, the purchase of an annuity contract or any other asset generally does not constitute payment to the person to which a liability is owed unless the ownership of the contract or other asset is transferred to that person.


(C) *Liabilities that are assumed in connection with the sale of a trade or business.* Paragraph (d)(5) of this section provides rules that determine when economic performance occurs in the case of liabilities that are assumed in connection with the sale of a trade or business. The provisions of paragraph (d)(5) of this section also apply to any liability described in paragraph (g) (2) through (7) of this section that the purchaser expressly assumes in connection with the sale or exchange of a trade or business by a taxpayer, provided the taxpayer (but for the economic performance requirement) would have been entitled to incur the liability as of the date of the sale.


(iii) *Person.* For purposes of this paragraph (g), “person” has the same meaning as in section 7701(a)(1), except that it also includes any foreign state, the United States, any State or political subdivision thereof, any possession of the United States, and any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing.


(iv) *Assignments.* If a person that has a right to receive payment in satisfaction of a liability described in paragraphs (g) (2) through (7) of this section makes a valid assignment of that right to a second person, or if the right is assigned to the second person through operation of law, then payment to the second person in satisfaction of that liability constitutes payment to the person to which the liability is owed.


(2) *Liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort, breach of contract, or violation of law.* If the liability of a taxpayer requires a payment or series of payments to another person and arises under any workers compensation act or out of any tort, breach of contract, or violation of law, economic performance occurs as payment is made to the person to which the liability is owed. See *Example 1* of paragraph (g)(8) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(2)—


(i) A liability to make payments for services, property, or other consideration provided under a contract is not a liability arising out of a breach of that contract unless the payments are in the nature of incidental, consequential, or liquidated damages; and


(ii) A liability arising out of a tort, breach of contract, or violation of law includes a liability arising out of the settlement of a dispute in which a tort, breach of contract, or violation of law, respectively, is alleged.


(3) *Rebates and refunds.* If the liability of a taxpayer is to pay a rebate, refund, or similar payment to another person (whether paid in property, money, or as a reduction in the price of goods or services to be provided in the future by the taxpayer), economic performance occurs as payment is made to the person to which the liability is owed. This paragraph (g)(3) applies to all rebates, refunds, and payments or transfers in the nature of a rebate or refund regardless of whether they are characterized as a deduction from gross income, an adjustment to gross receipts or total sales, or an adjustment or addition to cost of goods sold. In the case of a rebate or refund made as a reduction in the price of goods or services to be provided in the future by the taxpayer, “payment” is deemed to occur as the taxpayer would otherwise be required to recognize income resulting from a disposition at an unreduced price. See *Example 2* of paragraph (g)(8) of this section. For purposes of determining whether the recurring item exception of § 1.461-5 applies, a liability that arises out of a tort, breach of contract, or violation of law is not considered a rebate or refund.


(4) *Awards, prizes, and jackpots.* If the liability of a taxpayer is to provide an award, prize, jackpot, or other similar payment to another person, economic performance occurs as payment is made to the person to which the liability is owed. See *Examples 3* and *4* of paragraph (g)(8) of this section.


(5) *Insurance, warranty, and service contracts.* If the liability of a taxpayer arises out of the provision to the taxpayer of insurance, or a warranty or service contract, economic performance occurs as payment is made to the person to which the liability is owed. See *Examples 5* through *7* of paragraph (g)(8) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(5)—


(i) A warranty or service contract is a contract that a taxpayer enters into in connection with property bought or leased by the taxpayer, pursuant to which the other party to the contract promises to replace or repair the property under specified circumstances.


(ii) The term “insurance” has the same meaning as is used when determining the deductibility of amounts paid or incurred for insurance under section 162.


(6) *Taxes*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g)(6), if the liability of a taxpayer is to pay a tax, economic performance occurs as the tax is paid to the governmental authority that imposed the tax. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(6), payment includes payments of estimated income tax and payments of tax where the taxpayer subsequently files a claim for credit or refund. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph (g)(6), a tax does not include a charge collected by a governmental authority for specific extraordinary services or property provided to a taxpayer by the governmental authority. Examples of such a charge include the purchase price of a parcel of land sold to a taxpayer by a governmental authority and a charge for labor engaged in by government employees to improve that parcel. In certain cases, a liability to pay a tax is permitted to be taken into account in the taxable year before the taxable year during which economic performance occurs under the recurring item exception of § 1.461-5. See *Example 8* of paragraph (g)(8) of this section.


(ii) *Licensing fees.* If the liability of a taxpayer is to pay a licensing or permit fee required by a governmental authority, economic performance occurs as the fee is paid to the governmental authority, or as payment is made to any other person at the direction of the governmental authority.


(iii) *Exceptions*—(A) *Real property taxes.* If a taxpayer has made a valid election under section 461 (c), the taxpayer's accrual for real property taxes is determined under section 461 (c). Otherwise, economic performance with respect to a property tax liability occurs as the tax is paid, as specified in paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section.


(B) *Certain foreign taxes.* If the liability of a taxpayer is to pay an income, war profits, or excess profits tax that is imposed by the authority of any foreign country or possession of the United States and is creditable under section 901 (including a creditable tax described in section 903 that is paid in lieu of such a tax), economic performance occurs when the requirements of the all events test (as described in § 1.446-1 (c)(1)(ii)) other than economic performance are met, whether or not the taxpayer elects to credit such taxes under section 901 (a).


(7) *Other liabilities.* In the case of a taxpayer's liability for which economic perfomance rules are not provided elsewhere in this section or in any other Internal Revenue regulation, revenue ruling or revenue procedure, economic performance occurs as the taxpayer makes payments in satisfaction of the liability to the person to which the liability is owed. This paragraph (g)(7) applies only if the liability cannot properly be characterized as a liability covered by rules provided elsewhere in this section. If a liability may properly be characterized as, for example, a liability arising from the provision of services or property to, or by, a taxpayer, the determination as to when economic performance occurs with respect to that liability is made under paragraph (d) of this section and not under this paragraph (g)(7).


(8) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (g). For purposes of these examples, it is assumed that the requirements of the all events test other than economic performance have been met and, except as otherwise provided, that the recurring item exception is not used.


(h) *Liabilities arising under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982.* Notwithstanding the principles of paragraph (d) of this section, economic performance with respect to the liability of an owner or generator of nuclear waste to make payments to the Department of Energy (“DOE”) pursuant to a contract required by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-425, 42 U.S.C. 10101-10226 (1982)) occurs as each payment under the contract is made to DOE and not when DOE satisfies its obligations under the contract. This rule applies to the continuing fee required by 42 U.S.C. 10222(a)(2) (1982), as well as the one-time fee required by 42 U.S.C. 10222 (a)(3) (1982). For rules relating to when economic performance occurs with respect to interest, see paragraph (e) of this section.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Contingent liabilities.* [Reserved]


(k) *Special effective dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (k), section 461(h) and this section apply to liabilities that would, under the law in effect before the enactment of section 461(h), be allowable as a deduction or otherwise incurred after July 18, 1984. For example, the economic performance requirement applies to all liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort that would, under the law in effect before the enactment of section 461(h), be incurred after July 18, 1984. For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, see Q&A-2 of § 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995), which provides an election to make this change in method of accounting applicable to either the portion of the first taxable year that occurs after July 18, 1984 (part-year change method), or the entire first taxable year ending after July 18, 1984 (full-year change method). With respect to the effective date rules for interest, section 461(h) applies to interest accruing under any obligation (whether or not evidenced by a debt instrument) if the obligation is incurred in any transaction occurring after June 8, 1984, and is not incurred under a written contract which was binding on March 1, 1984, and at all times thereafter until the obligation is incurred. Interest accruing under an obligation described in the preceding sentence is subject to section 461(h) even if the interest accrues before July 19, 1984. Similarly, interest accruing under any obligation incurred in a transaction occurring before June 9, 1984, (or under a written contract which was binding on March 1, 1984, and at all times thereafter until the obligation is incurred) is not subject to section 461(h) even to the extent the interest accrues after July 18, 1984.


(2) *Long-term contracts.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (M)(2) of this section, in the case of liabilities described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section (relating to long-term contracts), paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section applies to liabilities that would, but for the enactment of section 461(h), be allowable as a deduction or otherwise incurred for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1991.


(3) *Payment liabilities.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (m)(2) of this section, in the case of liabilities described in paragraph (g) of this section (other than liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section), paragraph (g) of this section applies to liabilities that would, but for the enactment of section 461(h), be allowable as a deduction or otherwise incurred for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1991.


(l) [Reserved]


(m) *Change in method of accounting required by this section*—(1) *In general.* For the first taxable year ending after July 18, 1984, a taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting for liabilities to comply with the provisions of this section pursuant to any of the following procedures:


(i) For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, the part-year change in method election described in Q&A-2 through Q&A-6 and Q&A-8 through Q&A-10 of § 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995);


(ii) For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, the full-year change in method election described in Q&A-2 through Q&A-6 and Q&A-8 through Q&A-10 of § 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995); or


(iii) For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, if no election is made, the cut-off method described in Q&A-1 and Q&A-11 of § 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995).


(2) *Change in method of accounting for long-term contracts and payment liabilities*—(i) *First taxable year beginning after December 31, 1991.* For the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1991, a taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting for long-term contract liabilities described in paragraph (D)(2)(ii) of this section and payment liabilities described in paragraph (g) of this section (other than liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) to comply with the provisions of this section. The change must be made in accordance with paragraph (m)(1)(ii) or (m)(1)(iii) of this section, except the effective date is the first day of the first taxable year beginning December 31, 1991.


(ii) *Retroactive change in method of accounting for long-term contracts and payment liabilities.* For the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1989, or the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1990, a taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting for long-term contract liabilities described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section and payment liabilities described in paragraph (g) of this section (other than liabilities arising under a workers compensation act or out of any tort described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) to comply with the provisions of this section. The change must be made in accordance with paragraph (m)(1)(ii) or (m)(1)(iii) of this section, except the effective date is the first day of the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1989, or the first day of the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1990. For taxable years ending before April 7, 1995, the taxpayer may make the change in method of accounting, including a full-year change in method election under paragraph (m)(1)(ii) of this section and Q&A-5 of § 1.461-7T (as it appears in 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 1995), by filing an amended return for such year, provided the amended return is filed on or before October 7, 1992.



---

[N] [T.D. 8408, 57 FR 12421, Apr. 10, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8491, 58 FR 53135, Oct. 14, 1993; T.D. 8593, 60 FR 18743, Apr. 13, 1995; T.D. 8820, 64 FR 26851, May 18, 1999; T.D. 8408, 69 FR 44597, July 27, 2004]




