# § 4062.9   Arrangements for satisfying liability.

(a) *General.* The PBGC will defer payment, or agree to other arrangements for the satisfaction, of any portion of liability to the PBGC only when—


(1) As provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the PBGC determines that such action is necessary to avoid the imposition of a severe hardship and that there is a reasonable possibility that the terms so prescribed will be met and the entire liability paid; or 


(2) As provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the PBGC determines that section 4062(b) liability exceeds 30 percent of the collective net worth of persons subject to liability in connection with a plan termination. 


(b) *Upon request.* If the PBGC determines that such action is necessary to avoid the imposition of a severe hardship on persons that are or may become liable under section 4062, 4063, or 4064 of ERISA and that there is a reasonable possibility that persons so liable will be able to meet the terms prescribed and pay the entire liability, the PBGC, in its discretion and when so requested in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, may grant deferred payment or other terms for the satisfaction of such liability. 


(1) In determining what, if any, terms to grant, the PBGC shall examine the following factors: 


(i) The ratio of the liability to the net worth of the person making the request and (if different) to the collective net worth of persons subject to liability in connection with a plan termination. 


(ii) The overall financial condition of persons that are or may become liable, including, with respect to each such person—


(A) The amounts and terms of existing debts; 


(B) The amount and availability of liquid assets; 


(C) Current and past cash flow; and 


(D) Projected cash flow, including a projection of the impact on operations that would be caused by the immediate full payment of the liability. 


(iii) The availability of credit from private sector sources to the person making the request and to other liable persons. 


(2) A contributing sponsor or member of a contributing sponsor's controlled group may request deferred payment or other terms for the satisfaction of any portion of the liability under section 4062, 4063, or 4064 of ERISA at any time by filing a written request. The request must include the information specified in § 4062.6(b), except that—


(i) If the request is filed one year or more after the net worth record date, references to “the net worth record date” in § 4062.6(b) shall be replaced by “the most recent annual anniversary of the net worth record date”; and 


(ii) Information that already has been submitted to the PBGC need not be submitted again. 


(c) *Liability exceeding 30 percent of collective net worth.* If the PBGC determines that section 4062(b) liability exceeds 30 percent of the collective net worth of persons subject to the liability, the PBGC will, after making a reasonable effort to reach agreement with such persons, prescribe commercially reasonable terms for payment of so much of the liability as exceeds 30 percent of the collective net worth of such persons. The terms prescribed by the PBGC for payment of that portion of the liability (including interest) will provide for deferral of 50 percent of any amount otherwise payable for any year if a person subject to such liability demonstrates to the satisfaction of the PBGC that no person subject to such liability has any individual pre-tax profits (within the meaning of section 4062(d)(2) of ERISA) for such person's last full fiscal year ending during that year. 


(d) *Interest.* Interest on unpaid liability is calculated in accordance with § 4062.7(a). 


(e) *Security during period of deferred payment.* As a condition to the granting of deferred payment terms, PBGC may, in its discretion, require that the liable person(s) provide PBGC with such security for its obligations as the PBGC deems adequate.



---

[N] [61 FR 34079, July 1, 1996. Redesignated at 71 FR 34822, June 16, 2006]




