# § 36.39   Public use.

(a) *General.* Public use of Alaska National Wildlife Refuges (NWR) is permitted subject to all other parts of 50 CFR part 36, those sections of 50 CFR subchapter C not supplemented by part 36, and the following refuge-specific requirements:


(b) *Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) Amchitka Island—closed to all public access, occupancy and use, unless specifically authorized by a special use permit issued jointly by the Refuge Manager and the U.S. Navy (Commanding Officer, Fleet Surveillance Support Command, Chesapeake, Virginia).


(c) *Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex.* (1) The Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge (Complex) includes the Becharof National Wildlife Refuge, the Chignik and Ugashik Units of the Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge and the Seal Cape Area of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge. 


(2) Off-road vehicles are permitted on the refuge complex under § 36.12(a),§ 36.39(c)(2)(ii) or § 36.39(c)(2)(iii) and must meet the following conditions: 


(i) Vehicles are limited to three or four-wheeled vehicles with a maximum gross weight of 650 pounds as listed by the manufacturer. 


(ii) ORV's are permitted on the following trails only: Yantarni Bay Airstrip; Yantarni Bay Airstrip to beach trail; and Yantarni Bay Airstrip to oil well site trail. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager. 


(iii) Subject to the weight and size restrictions listed in (i) above, subsistence use of off-road vehicles, as authorized by 50 CFR 36.12(a) is allowed throughout the Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex. 


(3) Camping is permitted on the Refuge Complex subject to the following restrictions: 


(i) These camping limits do not apply to subsistence users except at Big Creek where they apply to all refuge complex users. 


(ii) No permanent improvements may be made to campsites without a special use permit. All materials brought on to the refuge complex must be removed upon cessation of camping unless authorized by a special use permit. 


(iii) Other than reserved sites authorized by special use permits, camping at one location is limited to seven consecutive nights from August 1 through November 15 within 
1/4 mile of the following waters: Becharof Lake in the Severson Peninsula area (Island Arm); Becharof Lake Outlet; Ugashik Narrows; Big Creek; Gertrude Lake; and Gertrude Creek between Gertrude Lake and the King Salmon River. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager. 


(iv) Tent camps must be moved a minimum of one mile following each seven-night camping stay during the periods specified above. 


(4) Temporary facilities may be authorized on the Alaska Peninsula/Becharof National Wildlife Refuge Complex by special use permit only, subject to the following conditions: 


(i) Except for administrative or subsistence purposes, new temporary facilities are prohibited within 
1/4 mile of the Becharof Lake shoreline. 


(ii) Except for administrative purposes, new temporary facilities are prohibited in the following areas: within 
1/4 mile of the shorelines of Gertrude Lake and Long Lake; within 
1/4 mile of the airstrip on the south side of the King Salmon River approximately 
1/2 mile above the confluence of Gertrude Creek and the King Salmon River; within 
1/4 mile of the shoreline of Upper and Lower Ugashik Lakes; within 
1/4 mile of the shoreline of Becharof Lake outlet; and within 
1/4 mile of the shoreline of Big Creek. Maps of the above areas are available from the Refuge Manager. 


(d) *Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.* We prohibit all domestic sheep, goats, and camelids on the refuge.


(e)-(h) [Reserved]


(i) *Kenai National Wildlife Refuge.* Maps of designated areas open to specific public use activities on the refuge are available from Refuge Headquarters at the following address: 1 Ski Hill Road, Soldotna, AK.


(1) *Aircraft.* Except in an emergency, the operation of aircraft on the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge is authorized only in designated areas, as described in this paragraph (i)(1).


(i) We allow the operation of airplanes within the Kenai Wilderness on the following designated lakes, and under the restrictions noted:


(A) *Dave Spencer (Canoe Lakes) Unit.* (*1*) Bedlam Lake.


(*2*) Bird Lake.


(*3*) Cook Lake.


(*4*) Grouse Lake.


(*5*) King Lake.


(*6*) Mull Lake.


(*7*) Nekutak Lake.


(*8*) Norak Lake.


(*9*) Sandpiper Lake.


(*10*) Scenic Lake.


(*11*) Shoepac Lake.


(*12*) Snowshoe Lake.


(*13*) Taiga Lake.


(*14*) Tangerra Lake.


(*15*) Vogel Lake.


(*16*) Wilderness Lake.


(*17*) Pepper, Gene, and Swanson lakes are open to operation of airplanes only to provide access for ice fishing.


(B) *Andrew Simons Unit.*

(*1*) Emerald Lake.


(*2*) Green Lake.


(*3*) Harvey Lake.


(*4*) High Lake.


(*5*) Iceberg Lake.


(*6*) Kolomin Lakes.


(*7*) Lower Russian Lake.


(*8*) Martin Lake.


(*9*) Pothole Lake.


(*10*) Twin Lakes.


(*11*) Upper Russian Lake.


(*12*) Windy Lake.


(*13*) Dinglestadt Glacier terminus lake.


(*14*) Wosnesenski Glacier terminus lake.


(*15*) Tustumena Lake and all lakes within the Kenai Wilderness within 1 mile of the shoreline of Tustumena Lake.


(*16*) All unnamed lakes in sections 1 and 2, T. 1 S., R. 10 W., and sections 4, 5, 8, and 9, T. 1 S., R. 9 W., Seward Meridian.


(*17*) An unnamed lake in sections 28 and 29, T. 2 N., R. 4 W., Seward Meridian: The Refuge Manager may issue a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) for the operation of airplanes on this lake to successful applicants for certain State of Alaska, limited-entry, drawing permit hunts. Successful applicants should contact the Refuge Manager to request information.


(C) *Mystery Creek Unit.* An unnamed lake in section 11, T. 6 N., R. 5 W., Seward Meridian.


(ii) We allow the operation of airplanes on all lakes outside of the Kenai Wilderness, except that we prohibit aircraft operation on:


(A) The following lakes with recreational developments, including, but not limited to, campgrounds, campsites, and public hiking trails connected to road waysides, north of the Sterling Highway:


(*1*) Afonasi Lake.


(*2*) Anertz Lake.


(*3*) Breeze Lake.


(*4*) Cashka Lake.


(*5*) Dabbler Lake.


(*6*) Dolly Varden Lake.


(*7*) Forest Lake.


(*8*) Imeri Lake.


(*9*) Lili Lake.


(*10*) Mosquito Lake.


(*11*) Nest Lake.


(*12*) Rainbow Lake.


(*13*) Silver Lake.


(*14*) Upper Jean Lake.


(*15*) Watson Lake.


(*16*) Weed Lake.


(B) All lakes within the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area (south of Sterling Highway and north of Skilak Lake), except for Bottenintnin Lake (open to airplanes year-round) and Hidden Lake (open to airplanes only to provide access for ice fishing).


(C) Headquarters Lake (south of Soldotna), except for administrative purposes. You must request permission from the Refuge Manager.


(iii) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, we prohibit the operation of aircraft from May 1 through September 10 on any lake where nesting trumpeter swans or their broods or both are present.


(iv) We prohibit the operation of wheeled airplanes, with the following exceptions:


(A) We allow the operation of wheeled airplanes, at the pilot's risk, on the unmaintained Big Indian Creek Airstrip; on gravel areas within 
1/2 mile of Wosnesenski Glacier terminus lake; and within the SE
1/4, section 16 and SW
1/4, section 15, T. 4 S., R. 8 W., Seward Meridian.


(B) We allow the operation of wheeled airplanes, at the pilot's risk, within designated areas of the Chickaloon River Flats, including all of sections 5 and 6 and parts of sections 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 16, T. 9 N., R. 4 W.; all of section 1 and parts of sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, and 12, T. 9 N., R. 5 W.; all of sections 33 and 34 and parts of sections 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, and 35, T. 10 N., R. 4 W.; all of section 33 and parts of sections 19, 27, 28 29, 30 32, 34, 35, and 36, T. 10 N., R. 5 W, Seward Meridian.


(v) We allow the operation of airplanes on the Kasilof River, on the Chickaloon River (from the outlet to mile 6.5), and on the Kenai River below Skilak Lake (from June 15 through March 14). We prohibit aircraft operation on all other rivers on the refuge.


(vi) We prohibit the operation of unlicensed aircraft anywhere on the refuge except as authorized under terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(vii) We prohibit air dropping any items within the Kenai Wilderness except as authorized under terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(2) *Motorboats.* (i) We allow motorboat operation on all waters of the refuge, except that:


(A) We prohibit motorboat operation within the Dave Spencer (Canoe Lakes) Unit of the Kenai Wilderness, including those portions of the Moose and Swanson rivers within this Unit, except that we allow motorboat operation on those lakes designated for airplane operations as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section and shown on a map available from Refuge Headquarters.


(B) We prohibit motorboat operation on the Kenai River from the eastern refuge boundary near Sportsmans Landing and the confluence of the Russian River downstream to Skilak Lake. You may have a motor attached to your boat and drift or row through this section, provided the motor is not operating.


(C) We prohibit motorboat operation on the Kenai River from the outlet of Skilak Lake (river mile 50) downstream for approximately 3 miles (river mile 47) between March 15 and June 14, inclusive. You may have a motor attached to your boat and drift or row through this section, provided the motor is not operating.


(D) We prohibit the operation of motors with a total propshaft horsepower rating greater than 10 horsepower on the Moose, Swanson, Funny, Chickaloon (upstream of river mile 7.5), Killey, and Fox rivers.


(E) On the Kenai River downstream of Skilak Lake (river mile 50) to the refuge boundary (river mile 45.5), we restrict motorboat operation to only those motorboats with 4-stroke or direct fuel injection motors with a total propshaft horsepower rating of 50 horsepower or less, and that are up to 21 feet in length and up to 106 inches in width. On Skilak Lake, we restrict motorboat operation to only those motorboats with 4-stroke or direct fuel injection motors.


(F) A “no wake” restriction applies to the entire water body of Engineer, Upper and Lower Ohmer, Bottenintnin, Upper and Lower Jean, Kelly, Petersen, Watson, Imeri, Afonasi, Dolly Varden, and Rainbow lakes.


(ii) Notwithstanding any other provisions of these regulations, we prohibit the operation of motorboats from May 1 through September 10 on any lake where nesting trumpeter swans or their broods or both are present.


(3) *Off-road vehicles.* (i) We prohibit the operation of all off-road vehicles, as defined at § 36.2, except that four-wheel drive, licensed, and registered motor vehicles designed and legal for highway use may operate on designated roads, rights-of-way, and parking areas open to public vehicular access. This prohibition applies to off-road vehicle operation on lake and river ice. At the operator's risk, we allow licensed and registered motor vehicles designed and legal for highway use on Hidden, Engineer, Kelly, Petersen, and Watson lakes only to provide access for ice fishing. You must enter and exit the lakes via existing boat ramps.


(ii) We prohibit the operation of air cushion watercraft, air-thrust boats, jet skis and other personal watercraft, and all other motorized watercraft except motorboats.


(iii) The Refuge Manager may issue a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) for the operation of specialized off-road vehicles and watercraft for certain administrative activities (to include fish and wildlife-related monitoring, vegetation management, and infrastructure maintenance in permitted rights-of-way).


(4) *Snowmobiles.* We allow the operation of snowmobiles only in designated areas and only under the following conditions:


(i) We allow the operation of snowmobiles from December 1 through April 30 only when the Refuge Manager determines that there is adequate snow cover to protect underlying vegetation and soils. During this time, the Refuge Manager will authorize, through public notice (a combination of any or all of the following: Internet, newspaper, radio, and/or signs), the use of snowmobiles less than 48 inches in width and less than 1,000 pounds (450 kg) in weight.


(ii) We prohibit snowmobile operation:


(A) In all areas above timberline, except the Caribou Hills.


(B) In an area within sections 5, 6, 7, and 8, T. 4 N., R. 10 W., Seward Meridian, east of the Sterling Highway right-of-way, including the Refuge Headquarters complex, the environmental education/cross-country ski trails, Headquarters and Nordic lakes, and the area north of the east fork of Slikok Creek and northwest of a prominent seismic trail to Funny River Road.


(C) In an area including the Swanson River Canoe Route and portages, beginning at the Paddle Lake parking area, then west and north along the Canoe Lakes wilderness boundary to the Swanson River, continuing northeast along the river to Wild Lake Creek, then east to the west shore of Shoepac Lake, south to the east shore of Antler Lake, and west to the beginning point near Paddle Lake.


(D) In an area including the Swan Lake Canoe Route and several road-connected public recreational lakes, bounded on the west by the Swanson River Road, on the north by the Swan Lake Road, on the east by a line from the east end of Swan Lake Road south to the west bank of the Moose River, and on the south by the refuge boundary.


(E) In the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area, except on Hidden, Kelly, Petersen, and Engineer lakes only to provide access for ice fishing. You must enter and exit these lakes via the existing boat ramps and operate exclusively on the lakes. Within the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area, only Upper and Lower Skilak Lake campground boat launches may be used as access points for snowmobile use on Skilak Lake.


(F) On maintained roads within the refuge. Snowmobiles may cross a maintained road after stopping.


(G) For racing, or to herd, harass, haze, pursue, or drive wildlife.


(5) *Hunting and trapping.* We allow hunting and trapping on the refuge in accordance with State and Federal laws and consistent with the following provisions:


(i) You may not discharge a firearm within 
1/4 mile of designated public campgrounds, trailheads, waysides, buildings including public use cabins, or the Sterling Highway from the east Refuge boundary to the east junction of the Skilak Loop Road. You may not discharge a firearm within 
1/4 mile of the west shoreline of the Russian River from the upstream extent of the Russian River Falls downstream to its confluence with the Kenai River, and from the shorelines of the Kenai River from the east refuge boundary downstream to Skilak Lake and from the outlet of Skilak Lake downstream to the refuge boundary, except that firearms may be used in these areas to dispatch animals while lawfully trapping and shotguns may be used for waterfowl and small game hunting along the Kenai River. These firearms discharge regulations do not preclude use of firearms for taking game in defense of life and property as defined under State law.


(ii) We prohibit hunting over bait, with the exception of hunting for black bear, and then only as authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(iii) We prohibit hunting big game with the aid or use of a dog, with the exception of hunting for black bear, and then only as authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(iv) We prohibit hunting and trapping within sections 5, 6, 7, and 8, T. 4 N., R. 10 W., Seward Meridian, encompassing the Kenai Refuge Headquarters, Environmental Education Center, Visitor Center Complex, and associated public use trails. A map of closure areas is available at Refuge Headquarters.


(v) The additional provisions for hunting and trapping within the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area are set forth in paragraph (i)(6) of this section.


(6) *Hunting and trapping within the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area.* (i) The Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area is bound by a line beginning at the easternmost junction of the Sterling Highway and the Skilak Loop Road (Mile 58), then due south to the south bank of the Kenai River, then southerly along the south bank of the Kenai River to its confluence with Skilak Lake, then westerly along the north shore of Skilak Lake to Lower Skilak Campground, then northerly along the Lower Skilak campground road and the Skilak Loop Road to its westernmost junction with the Sterling Highway (Mile 75.1), then easterly along the Sterling Highway to the point of origin.


(ii) The Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area (Skilak Loop Management Area) is closed to hunting and trapping, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(6)(iii) and (iv) of this section.


(iii) You may hunt moose only with a permit issued by the Alaska Department of Fish and Game and in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph (i)(5) of this section.


(iv) You may hunt small game in accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraph (i)(5) of this section and:


(A) Using falconry and bow and arrow only from October 1 through March 1; or


(B) If you are a youth hunter 16 years old or younger, who is accompanied by a licensed hunter 18 years old or older who has successfully completed a certified hunter education course (if the youth hunter has not), or by someone born on or before January 1, 1986. Youth hunters must use standard .22 rimfire or shotgun, and may hunt only in that portion of the area west of a line from the access road from the Sterling Highway to Kelly Lake, the Seven Lakes Trail, and the access road from Engineer Lake to Skilak Lake Road, and north of the Skilak Lake Road. The youth hunt occurs during each weekend from November 1 to December 31, including the Friday following Thanksgiving. State of Alaska bag limit regulations apply.


(7) *Fishing.* We allow fishing on the refuge in accordance with State and Federal laws, and consistent with the following provisions:


(i) We prohibit fishing during hours of operation of the Russian River Ferry along the south bank of the Kenai River from a point 100 feet upstream to a point 100 feet downstream of the ferry dock.


(ii) Designated areas along the Kenai River at the two Moose Range Meadows public fishing facilities along Keystone Drive are closed to public access and use. At these facilities, we allow fishing only from the fishing platforms and by wading in the Kenai River. To access the river, you must enter and exit from the stairways attached to the fishing platforms. We prohibit fishing from, walking or placing belongings on, or otherwise occupying designated areas along the river in these areas.


(8) *Public use cabin and camping area management.* We allow camping and use of public use cabins on the refuge in accordance with the following conditions:


(i) Unless otherwise further restricted, camping may not exceed 14 days in any 30-day period anywhere on the refuge.


(ii) Campers may not spend more than 7 consecutive days at Hidden Lake Campground or in public use cabins.


(iii) The Refuge Manager may establish a fee and registration permit system for overnight camping at designated campgrounds and public use cabins. At all of the refuge's fee-based campgrounds and public use cabins, you must pay the fee in full prior to occupancy. No person may attempt to reserve a refuge campsite by placing a placard, sign, or any item of personal property on a campsite. Reservations and a cabin permit are required for public use cabins, with the exception of the Emma Lake and Trapper Joe cabins, which are available on a first-come, first-served basis. Information on the refuge's public use cabin program is available from Refuge Headquarters and online at *http://www.recreation.gov.*

(iv) Campers in developed campgrounds and public use cabins must follow all posted campground and cabin occupancy rules.


(v) You must observe quiet hours from 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. in all developed campgrounds, parking areas, and public use cabins.


(vi) Within developed campgrounds, we allow camping only in designated sites.


(vii) *Campfires.* (A) Within developed campgrounds, we allow open fires only in portable, self-contained, metal fire grills, or in the permanent fire grates provided. We prohibit moving a permanent fire grill or grate to a new location.


(B) Campers and occupants of public use cabins may cut only dead and down vegetation for campfire use.


(C) You must completely extinguish (put out cold) all campfires before permanently leaving a campsite.


(viii) While occupying designated campgrounds, parking areas, or public use cabins, all food (including lawfully retained fish, wildlife, or their parts), beverages, personal hygiene items, odiferous refuse, or any other item that may attract bears or other wildlife, and all equipment used to transport, store, or cook these items (such as coolers, backpacks, camp stoves, and grills) must be:


(A) Locked in a hard-sided vehicle, camper, or camp trailer; in a cabin; or in a commercially produced and certified bear-resistant container; or


(B) Immediately accessible to at least one person who is outside and attending to the items.


(ix) We prohibit deposition of solid human waste within 100 feet of annual mean high water level of any wetland, lake, pond, spring, river, stream, campsite, or trail. In the Swan Lake and Swanson River Canoe Systems, you must bury solid human waste to a depth of 6 to 8 inches.


(x) We prohibit tent camping within 600 feet of each public use cabin, except by members and guests of the party registered to that cabin.


(xi) Within 100 yards of the Kenai River banks along the Upper Kenai River from river mile 73 to its confluence with Skilak Lake (river mile 65), we allow camping only at designated primitive campsites. Campers can spend no more than 3 consecutive nights at the designated primitive campsites.


(xii) We prohibit camping in the following areas of the refuge:


(A) Within 
1/4 mile of the Sterling Highway, Ski Hill, or Skilak Loop roads, except in designated campgrounds.


(B) On the two islands in the lower Kenai River between mile 25.1 and mile 28.1 adjacent to the Moose Range Meadows Subdivision.


(C) At the two refuge public fishing facilities and the boat launching facility along Keystone Drive within the Moose Range Meadows Subdivision, including within parking areas, and on trails, fishing platforms, and associated refuge lands.


(9) *Other uses and activities*—(i) *Must I register to canoe on the refuge?* Canoeists on the Swanson River and Swan Lake Canoe Routes must register at entrance points using the registration forms provided. The maximum group size on the Canoe Routes is 15 people. The Refuge Manager may authorize larger groups under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(ii) *May I use motorized equipment within designated Wilderness areas on the refuge?* Within the Kenai Wilderness, except as provided in this paragraph (i), we prohibit the use of motorized equipment, including, but not limited to, chainsaws; generators; power tools; powered ice augers; and electric, gas, or diesel power units. We allow the use of motorized wheelchairs, when used by those whose disabilities require wheelchairs for locomotion. We allow the use of snowmobiles, airplanes, and motorboats in designated areas in accordance with the regulations in this paragraph (i).


(iii) *May I use non-motorized wheeled vehicles on the refuge?* Yes, you may use bicycles and other non-motorized wheeled vehicles, but only on refuge roads and rights-of-way designated for public vehicular access. In addition, you may use non-motorized, hand-operated, wheeled game carts, specifically manufactured for such purpose, to transport meat of legally harvested big game on designated industrial roads closed to public vehicular access. Information on these designated roads is available from Refuge Headquarters. Further, you may use a wheelchair if you have a disability that requires its use for locomotion.


(iv) *May I ride or use horses, mules, or other domestic animals as packstock on the refuge?* Yes, as authorized under State law, except on the Fuller Lakes Trail and on all trails within the Skilak Wildlife Recreation Area and the Refuge Headquarters area. All animals used as packstock must remain in the immediate control of the owner, or his/her designee. All hay and feed used on the refuge for domestic stock and sled dogs must be certified under the State of Alaska's Weed Free Forage certification program.


(v) *Are pets allowed on the refuge?* Yes, pets are allowed, but you must be in control of your pet(s) at all times. Pets in developed campgrounds and parking lots must be on a leash that is no longer than 9 feet in length. Pets are not allowed on hiking and ski trails in the Refuge Headquarters area.


(vi) *May I cut firewood on the refuge?* The Refuge Manager may open designated areas of the refuge for firewood cutting. You may cut and/or remove firewood only for personal, noncommercial use, and only as authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(vii) *May I cut Christmas trees on the refuge?* You may cut one spruce tree per household per year no larger than 20 feet in height from Thanksgiving through Christmas Day. Trees may be taken anywhere on the refuge, except that we prohibit taking trees from within the 2-square-mile Refuge Headquarters area on Ski Hill Road. Trees must be harvested with hand tools, and must be at least 150 feet from roads, trails, campgrounds, picnic areas, and waterways (lakes, rivers, streams, or ponds). Stumps from harvested trees must be trimmed to less than 6 inches in height.


(viii) *May I pick berries and other edible plants on the refuge?* You may pick and possess unlimited quantities of berries, mushrooms, and other edible plants for personal, noncommercial use.


(ix) *May I collect shed antlers on the refuge?* You may collect and keep up to eight (8) naturally shed moose and/or caribou antlers annually for personal, noncommercial use. You may collect no more than two (2) shed antlers per day.


(x) *May I leave personal property on the refuge?* You may not leave personal property unattended longer than 72 hours unless in a designated area or as authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager. However, refuge visitors involved in approved, extended overnight activities, including hunting, fishing, and camping, may leave personal property unattended during their continuous stay, but in no case longer than 14 days.


(xi) *If I find research marking devices, what do I do?* You must return any radio transmitter collars, neck and leg bands, ear tags, or other fish and wildlife marking devices found or recovered from fish and wildlife on the refuge within 5 days of leaving the refuge to the Refuge Manager or the Alaska Department of Fish and Game.


(xii) *Are there special regulations for alcoholic beverages?* In addition to the provisions of 50 CFR 27.81, anyone under the age of 21 years may not knowingly consume, possess, or control alcoholic beverages on the refuge in violation of State of Alaska law or regulations.


(xiii) *Are there special regulations for public gatherings on the refuge?* In addition to the provisions of 50 CFR 26.36, a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) is required for any outdoor public gathering of more than 20 persons.


(10) *Areas of the refuge closed to public use.* (i) From March 15 through September 30, you may not approach within 100 yards of, or walk on or otherwise occupy, the rock outcrop islands in Skilak Lake traditionally used by nesting cormorants and gulls. A map depicting the closure is available from the Refuge Headquarters.


(ii) Headquarters Lake, adjacent to the Kenai Refuge Headquarters area, is closed to boating.


(11) *Area-specific regulations for the Russian River Special Management Area.* The Russian River Special Management Area includes all refuge lands and waters within 
1/4 mile of the eastern refuge boundary along the Russian River from the upstream end of the fish ladder at Russian River Falls downstream to the confluence with the Kenai River, and within 
1/4 mile of the Kenai River from the eastern refuge boundary downstream to the upstream side of the powerline crossing at river mile 73, and areas managed by the refuge under memorandum of understanding or lease agreement at the Sportsman Landing facility. In the Russian River Special Management Area:


(i) While recreating on or along the Russian and Kenai rivers, you must closely attend or acceptably store all attractants, and all equipment used to transport attractants (such as backpacks and coolers) at all times. Attractants are any substance, natural or manmade, including but not limited to, items of food, beverage, personal hygiene, or odiferous refuse that may draw, entice, or otherwise cause a bear or other wildlife to approach. Closely attend means to retain on the person or within the person's immediate control and in no case more than 3 feet from the person. Acceptably store means to lock within a commercially produced and certified bear-resistant container.


(ii) While recreating on or along the Russian and Kenai rivers, you must closely attend or acceptably store all lawfully retained fish at all times. Closely attend means to keep within view of the person and be near enough for the person to quickly retrieve, and in no case more than 12 feet from the person. Acceptably store means to lock within a commercially produced and certified bear-resistant container.


(iii) We prohibit overnight camping except in designated camping facilities at the Russian River Ferry and Sportsman's Landing parking areas. Campers may not spend more than 2 consecutive days at these designated camping facilities.


(iv) You may start or maintain a fire only in designated camping facilities at the Russian River Ferry and Sportsman's Landing parking areas, and then only in portable, self-contained, metal fire grills, or in the permanent fire grates provided. We prohibit moving a permanent fire grill or grate to a new location. You must completely extinguish (put out cold) all campfires before permanently leaving your campsite.


(12) *Area-specific regulations for the Moose Range Meadows Subdivision non-development and public use easements.* (i) Where the refuge administers two variable width, non-development easements held by the United States and overlaying private lands within the Moose Range Meadows Subdivision on either shore of the Kenai River between river miles 25.1 and 28.1, you may not erect any building or structure of any kind; remove or disturb gravel, topsoil, peat, or organic material; remove or disturb any tree, shrub, or plant material of any kind; start a fire; or use a motorized vehicle of any kind (except a wheelchair occupied by a person with a disability), unless such use is authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager.


(ii) Where the refuge administers two 25-foot-wide public use easements held by the United States and overlaying private lands within the Moose Range Meadows Subdivision on either shore of the Kenai River between river miles 25.1 and 28.1, we allow public entry subject to applicable Federal regulations and the following provisions:


(A) You may walk upon or along, fish from, or launch or beach a boat upon an area 25 feet upland of ordinary high water, provided that no vehicles (except wheelchairs) are used. We prohibit non-emergency camping, structure construction, and brush or tree cutting within the easements.


(B) From July 1 to August 15, you may not use or access any portion of the 25-foot-wide public easements or the three designated public easement trails located parallel to the Homer Electric Association Right-of-Way from Funny River Road and Keystone Drive to the downstream limits of the public use easements. Maps depicting the seasonal closure are available from Refuge Headquarters.


(13) *Area-specific regulations for Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Section 17(b) easements.* Where the refuge administers Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act Section 17(b) easements to provide access to refuge lands, no person may block, alter, or destroy any section of the road, trail, or undeveloped easement, unless such use is authorized under the terms and conditions of a special use permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the Refuge Manager. No person may interfere with lawful use of the easement or create a public safety hazard on the easement. Section 17(b) easements are depicted on a map available from Refuge Headquarters.


(j) *Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Seasonal public use closure of the O'Malley River Area.* The area within the Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge described in this paragraph (j)(1) is closed to all public access, occupancy, and use from June 25 through September 30, except for individuals participating in the O'Malley River Bear-Viewing Program. The area subject to seasonal closure consists of lands and waters located within Township 33 South, Range 30 West, Seward Meridian, Alaska, consisting of approximately 2,560 acres, and more particularly described as follows: Township 33 South, Range 30 West, Seward Meridian, Alaska, all of Section 25; all of Section 26, excluding U.S. Survey 10875 and the adjacent riparian ownership (Koniag Inc.) fronting the survey and extending to the center of Karluk Lake; and all of Sections 35 and 36, excluding U.S. Survey 10876 and the adjacent riparian ownership (Koniag Inc.) fronting the survey and extending to the center of Karluk Lake. Maps of the closure area are available from the Refuge.


(2) *Access easement provision.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (j), there exists a 25-foot-wide access easement on an existing trail within the Koniag Inc. Regional Native Corporation lands within properties described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section in favor of the United States of America.


(3) *Permit requirement for Conservation Easement lands.* Pursuant to the terms of a Conservation Easement held by the United States and the State of Alaska, we manage public use of certain lands owned by Koniag, Inc. These lands are inholdings within the exterior boundaries of the Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge. The Conservation Easement was recorded in the Kodiak Recording District, Alaska, on December 6, 2002, as document number 2002-003448-0. The lands subject to the Conservation Easement to which the permit requirement in this paragraph apply are all lands within 
1/2 mile of the west shore of Karluk Lake, from the lake outlet to the southern boundary of T. 32 S., R. 30 W. (surveyed), Seward Meridian; all lands within 
1/2 mile of the east shore of Karluk Lake, from the lake outlet to a point due east of the north end of Camp Island; and all lands within a 
1/2-mile band of land on either side of the Karluk River, from the Karluk Lake outlet downstream to the refuge boundary. A map is available from the refuge showing the location of the easement lands that are subject to the permit requirement. You are prohibited from using these lands unless:


(i) You have a nontransferable permit from the refuge;


(ii) You are a concessionaire or a client of a concessionaire authorized by Koniag, Inc., to provide revenue-producing visitor services;


(iii) You are an authorized user in accordance with section 7(d) of the Conservation Easement; or


(iv) You are limiting your use of the property to public access easements established under section 17(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.


(4) *Camping prohibition near facilities.* On lands within Kodiak National Wildlife Refuge, you are prohibited from camping within one-quarter mile of public use cabins and Federal and administrative facilities, unless such activity is specifically authorized in a Refuge Special Use Permit. An administrative facility means any facility or site administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or the State of Alaska for public entry or other administrative purposes, including but not limited to cabins, storage buildings, piers, docks, weirs, refuge offices, visitor centers, and public access and parking sites. Maps of the locations of public use cabins and administrative facilities are available from Refuge Headquarters in Kodiak, Alaska.


(5) *Snowmachine prohibition.* Snowmachines, as defined in § 36.2, are prohibited within an approximately 4,972-acre area encompassing Den Mountain and adjacent highlands. The summit of Den Mountain is located within Township 29 South, Range 24 West, Seward Meridian, Alaska. Maps of the closed area are available from Refuge Headquarters in Kodiak, Alaska.



---

[N] [51 FR 32332, Sept. 11, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 41509, Nov. 17, 1986; 60 FR 37311, July 19, 1995; 61 FR 29497, June 11, 1996; 64 FR 14154, Mar. 24, 1999; 71 FR 33259, June 8, 2006; 75 FR 16639, Apr. 1, 2010; 81 FR 27043, May 5, 2016; 85 FR 54145, Aug. 31, 2020]




