# ยง 927.78   Termination.

(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate this subpart. 


(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any or all of the provisions of this subpart whenever he or she finds that such operation obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act. 


(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this subpart applicable to fresh pears for market or pears for processing at the end of any fiscal period whenever the Secretary finds, by referendum or otherwise, that such termination is favored by a majority of growers of fresh pears for market or pears for processing, respectively: *Provided*, That such majority has during such period produced more than 50 percent of the volume of fresh pears for market or pears for processing, respectively, in the production area. Such termination shall be effective only if announced on or before the last day of the then current fiscal period. 


(d) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum within every six-year period beginning on May 21, 2005, to ascertain whether continuance of the provisions of this subpart applicable to fresh pears for market or pears for processing are favored by producers of pears for the fresh market and pears for processing, respectively. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this subpart at the end of any fiscal period in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this subpart is not favored by producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of fresh pears for market or pears for processing in the production area: *Provided*, That termination of the order shall be effective only if announced on or before the last day of the then current fiscal period. 


(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the act authorizing them cease to be in effect. 




