# ยง 8.22   Application for enrollment.

(a) *Information to be furnished.* An applicant for enrollment to practice shall state his or her name, address, and business address, citizenship, and age on the application. The applicant shall also state if he or she has ever been suspended or disbarred as an attorney or certified public accountant, or if the applicant's right to practice has ever been revoked by any court, commission, or administrative agency in any jurisdiction. The applicant shall set forth his or her technical qualifications as required by ยง 8.21(b) which enable him or her to render valuable service before the Bureau. The applicant shall indicate which area or areas of Bureau matters in which he or she desires to practice (alcohol, tobacco, firearms, or explosives matters).


(b) *Fee.* Each application for enrollment will be accompanied by a check or money order in the amount of $25, payable to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. This fee will be retained by the United States whether or not the applicant is granted enrollment. Agents who are enrolled to practice before the Internal Revenue Service prior to September 27, 1977, need not include this fee and should indicate their enrollment number on the application.


(c) *Execution under oath.* All applications for enrollment will be executed under oath or affirmation.


(d) *Filing.* Applications for enrollment will be filed with the Assistant Director, Regulatory Enforcement, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 1200 Pensylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20226.


(e) *Additional information.* The Director, as a condition to consideration for enrollment, may require the applicant to file additional information as necessary to determine if the applicant is qualified. The Director shall, upon written request, afford an applicant the opportunity to be heard with respect to his or her application for enrollment.



---

[N] [42 FR 33026, June 29, 1977; 42 FR 36455, July 15, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 14944, Apr. 16, 1984]




