# § 746.6   Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine and covered regions of Ukraine.

(a) *License requirements*—(1) *General prohibition—Temporarily Occupied Crimea Region of Ukraine.* (i) A license is required to export or reexport to or transfer within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine any item subject to the EAR other than food and medicine designated as EAR99, or 'software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the Internet'; and


(ii) Except as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, a license is required to reexport, export from abroad, or transfer (in-country) to any destination any foreign-produced item subject to the EAR under the Russia/Belarus/Temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine FDP rule described in § 734.9(f) of the EAR.


(2) *General prohibition—Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) and Luhansk People's Republic (LNR).* A license is required to export or reexport to, or transfer within, the so-called DNR or LNR regions of Ukraine any item subject to the EAR other than: Food and medicine designated as EAR99, or 'software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the internet'.


(3) *Deemed exports or reexports.* For purposes of applying the EAR deemed export and deemed reexport requirements pursuant to the general prohibitions described in this paragraph (a)(3), the nationality of the foreign national (as determined by accepted methods, such as looking to the passport or other nationality document(s) recognized by the United States Government) is what is used for purposes of determining whether a license is required for a deemed export or deemed reexport.




(4) *Exclusion from license requirements under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.* The countries listed in supplement No. 3 to this part have committed to implementing substantially similar export controls on Russia and Belarus under their domestic laws. Therefore, exports or reexports from the countries listed in supplement No. 3 to this part or transfers (in-country) within the countries listed in this supplement are not subject to the license requirements described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) of this section, unless a limit to the exclusion is described in the Scope column in supplement no. 3 to this part.


(5) *Exclusion for deployments by the Government of Ukraine to or within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine or covered regions of Ukraine.* The license requirements of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to exports, reexports, and transfers (in country) used in or for deployments by the Government of Ukraine to or within the temporarily occupied Crimea region of Ukraine or covered regions of Ukraine.








(b) *License review policy.* With limited exceptions, applications for the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of any item that requires a license pursuant to the requirements of this section will be reviewed with a policy of denial. The following types of license applications for licenses required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis: applications related to safety of flight; applications related to maritime safety; applications for civil nuclear safety; applications to meet humanitarian needs; applications that support government space cooperation; applications for items destined to wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies that are joint ventures with other U.S. companies, joint ventures of U.S. companies with companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement No. 1 to part 740 of the EAR, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of companies headquartered in countries from Country Group A:5 and A:6 in supplement no. 1 to part 740, joint ventures of companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 with other companies headquartered in Country Groups A:5 and A:6; applications for companies headquartered in the United States or in Country Groups A:5 and A:6 to support civil telecommunications infrastructure; and government-to-government activities. In reviewing such applications, whether the transaction in question would benefit the Russian or Belarusian government or defense sector or would otherwise be detrimental to the country or people of Ukraine are factors that will be taken into consideration.


(c) *License exceptions.* You may export, reexport or transfer (in-country) without a license if your transaction meets all the applicable terms and conditions of any of the license exception paragraphs specified in this paragraph (c). To determine scope and eligibility requirements, you will need to refer to the sections or specific paragraphs of part 740 (License Exceptions) of the EAR, as well as § 740.2 license exception restrictions. Read each license exception carefully, as the provisions available for countries subject to sanctions are generally narrow.


(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR.


(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), or the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) as set forth in § 740.11(a) and (b)(2) of the EAR.


(3) GFT for gift parcels and humanitarian donations as set forth in § 740.12 of the EAR.


(4) TSU for operation technology and software for lawfully exported commodities as set forth in § 740.13(a) and sales technology as set forth in § 740.13 (b) of the EAR.


(5) BAG for exports of items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage as set forth in § 740.14(a) through (d) of the EAR.


(6) AVS for civil aircraft and vessels as set forth in § 740.15(a)(4) and (d) of the EAR.


(7) License Exception MED (§ 740.23 of the EAR).




(d) *Definitions.* For purpose of this section, use the following definitions of terms:


(1) 'Crimea region of Ukraine' includes the land territory in that region as well as any maritime area over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on occupation of that land territory.


(2) 'Donetsk People's Republic (DNR) region' or 'Luhansk People's Republic (LNR) region' include the land territory in those regions as well as any maritime area over which sovereignty, sovereign rights, or jurisdiction is claimed based on purported sovereignty over that land territory or area.


(3) 'Software necessary to enable the exchange of personal communications over the internet' includes only software (such as software for instant messaging, chat and email, social networking, sharing of photos and movies, Web browsing, and blogging), designated EAR99 or classified as mass market software under Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 5D992.c of the EAR, provided that such software is widely available to the public at no cost to the user.



---

[N] [87 FR 12248, Mar. 3, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 34152, June 6, 2022; 88 FR 33429, May 23, 2023; 89 FR 4811, Jan. 25, 2024; 89 FR 33228, Apr. 29, 2024]




