# § 195.5   Conversion to service subject to this part.

(a) A steel pipeline previously used in service not subject to this part qualifies for use under this part if the operator prepares and follows a written procedure to accomplish the following:


(1) The design, construction, operation, and maintenance history of the pipeline must be reviewed and, where sufficient historical records are not available, appropriate tests must be performed to determine if the pipeline is in satisfactory condition for safe operation. If one or more of the variables necessary to verify the design pressure under § 195.106 or to perform the testing under paragraph (a)(4) of this section is unknown, the design pressure may be verified and the maximum operating pressure determined by—


(i) Testing the pipeline in accordance with ASME B31.8 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), Appendix N, to produce a stress equal to the yield strength; and 


(ii) Applying, to not more than 80 percent of the first pressure that produces a yielding, the design factor F in § 195.106(a) and the appropriate factors in § 195.106(e). 


(2) The pipeline right-of-way, all aboveground segments of the pipeline, and appropriately selected underground segments must be visually inspected for physical defects and operating conditions which reasonably could be expected to impair the strength or tightness of the pipeline.


(3) All known unsafe defects and conditions must be corrected in accordance with this part.


(4) The pipeline must be tested in accordance with subpart E of this part to substantiate the maximum operating pressure permitted by § 195.406. 


(b) A pipeline that qualifies for use under this section need not comply with the corrosion control requirements of subpart H of this part until 12 months after it is placed into service, notwithstanding any previous deadlines for compliance.


(c) Each operator must keep for the life of the pipeline a record of the investigations, tests, repairs, replacements, and alterations made under the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) An operator converting a pipeline from service not previously covered by this part must notify PHMSA 60 days before the conversion occurs as required by § 195.64.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-22, 46 FR 38360, July 27, 1981, as amended by Amdt. 195-52, 59 FR 33396, June 28, 1994; Amdt. 195-173, 66 FR 67004, Dec. 27, 2001; Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 184, Jan. 5, 2015; Amdt. 195-101, 82 FR 7999, Jan. 23, 2017; Amdts. 192-135, 195-107, 89 FR 33284, Apr. 29, 2024]




