# § 113.30-5   Requirements.

(a) *Communication.* Each vessel must have a means of communication among the following:


(1) Navigating bridge.


(2) Steering gear room, if outside the engineroom.


(3) Alternative steering station if outside of the steering gear room.


(4) Engine control room, if the vessel has an engine control room.


(5) Maneuvering platform, if the vessel has no engine control room.


(6) Control room, if the vessel is a mobile offshore drilling unit.


(7) The engineering officers' accommodations, if the vessel is an automated, self-propelled vessel under § 62.50-20(f) of this chapter.


(b) *Gyrocompass.* Each vessel that has a master gyrocompass that is not in or next to the navigating bridge must have a means of communication between the master gyrocompass and the navigating bridge repeater compass.


(c) *Radar.* Each vessel that has a radar plan position indicator that is not in or next to the navigating bridge must have a means of communication between the navigating bridge and the radar plan position indicator.


(d) *Emergency lockers.* If the emergency equipment lockers or spaces used by the emergency squad are not next to the navigating bridge or, on a mobile offshore drilling unit, next to the control room, there must be a means of communication between the navigating bridge or control room and the emergency equipment lockers or spaces.


(e) *Radio and radio direction finder.* Communication to the radio and radio direction finder must meet the following requirements:


(1) Each vessel that has a radio installation must have a means of communication between the radio room, the navigating bridge, or, if the vessel is a mobile offshore drilling unit, the control room, and any other place from which the vessel may be navigated under normal conditions, other than a place that is only for emergency functions, a place that is only for docking or maneuvering, or a place that is for navigating the vessel in close quarters. A location that has the apparatus that is necessary to steer the vessel, give engine orders, and control the whistle, is a place from which the vessel may be navigated.


(2) If the operating position of the emergency radio installation is not in the compartment normally used for operating the main radio installation, there must be means of communication between the emergency radio room, the navigating bridge, or, if the vessel is a mobile offshore drilling unit, the control room, and any other place from which the vessel may be navigated under normal conditions; other than a place that is only for emergency functions, a place that is only for docking or maneuvering, or a place that is for navigating the vessel in close quarters.


(3) Each vessel equipped with radio direction-finding apparatus that is not in or next to the navigating bridge must have a means of communication between the navigating bridge and the direction-finding apparatus.


(4) The communication system required by this paragraph must be independent of all other systems on the vessel. The location of the termination of these systems is subject to approval by the Federal Communication Commission.


(f) *Fire or smoke detecting systems.* Each vessel equipped with a fire or smoke detecting system, if control units are not in the navigating bridge, must have means of communication between the navigating bridge and the stations where the control units are located.


(g) *Lookout.* Each vessel must have a means of communication between the navigating bridge and the bow or forward lookout station unless direct voice communication is possible.


(h) *Engineroom local control station.* Each self-propelled vessel equipped with control from the navigating bridge must have a means of communication between the local station for the control of the speed or direction of thrust of the propulsion machinery and the engine control room, unless an engine order telegraph is installed in accordance with § 113.35-3. Each communication station at a local control station must—


(1) Be on a circuit separate from any other station required by this section; and


(2) Provide the capability of reliable voice communication when the vessel is underway.


(i) *Mobile offshore drilling units.* Each non-self-propelled mobile offshore drilling unit must have a means of communication among the control room, drill floor, machinery space, and silicon controlled rectifier (SCR) room (if installed). Each column-stabilized mobile offshore drilling unit must have a means of communication between the ballast control room and the spaces that contain the ballast pumps and valves.



---

[N] [CGD 74-125A, 47 FR 15272, Apr. 8, 1982, as amended by CGD 94-108, 61 FR 28289, June 4, 1996; 62 FR 23910, May 1, 1997; USCG-2004-18884, 69 FR 58348, Sept. 30, 2004]




