# ยง 242.61   Management.

The mortgagor shall provide for management of the hospital in a manner satisfactory to HUD.


(a) *Contract Management of Hospital.* The mortgagor shall not execute a management agreement or any other contract for management of the hospital without HUD's prior written approval. (Management of the hospital, which requires HUD's prior written approval, refers to management of the hospital not management of components within the hospital such as the hospital cafeteria or hospital pharmacy.) Any management agreement or contract for management of the hospital shall contain a provision that it shall be subject to termination without penalty and with or without cause, upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor and management agent.


(b) *Principals.* HUD shall have the authority to require that any principals of the mortgagor, including but not limited to board members of a corporate entity, be removed, substituted, or terminated for cause upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor.


(c) *Employees.* HUD shall have the authority to require that any key management employees of the mortgagor (as defined and determined solely by HUD) be terminated for cause upon written request by HUD addressed to the mortgagor.


(d) *Procedures upon receipt of request under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.* Upon receipt of such requests under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the mortgagor shall immediately terminate said management agreement, principals, or employees within the shortest applicable period HUD determines appropriate and shall make arrangements satisfactory to HUD for ongoing proper management of the hospital.



---

[N] [72 FR 67546, Nov. 28, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 35923, June 25, 2008]




