# ยง 325.7   Publication of stress test results.

(a)* Publication date.* A covered bank must publish a summary of the results of its stress tests in the period starting June 15 and ending July 15 of the reporting year, provided:


(1) Unless the Corporation determines otherwise, if the covered bank is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under 12 CFR part 252, then, within the June 15 to July 15 period, such covered bank may not publish the required summary of its periodic stress test earlier than the date that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company.


(2) If the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publishes the supervisory stress test results of the covered bank's parent holding company prior to June 15, then such covered bank may publish its stress test results prior to June 15, but no later than July 15, through actual publication by the covered bank or through publication by the parent holding company under paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Publication method.* The summary required under this section may be published on the covered bank's website or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public. A covered bank that is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that is required to conduct a company-run stress test under applicable regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will be deemed to have satisfied the public disclosure requirements under this part if it publishes a summary of its stress test results with its parent bank holding company's or savings and loan holding company's summary of stress test results. Subsidiary covered banks electing to satisfy their public disclosure requirement in this manner must include a summary of changes in regulatory capital ratios of such covered bank over the planning horizon, and an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.


(c) *Information to be disclosed in the summary.* A covered bank must disclose the following information regarding the severely adverse scenario if it is not a consolidated subsidiary of a parent bank holding company or savings and loan holding company that has elected to make its disclosure under 12 CFR 325.3(d):


(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test;


(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;


(3) Estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, net income, and pro forma capital ratios (including regulatory and any other capital ratios specified by the FDIC); and


(4) An explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in the regulatory capital ratios.


(d) *Content of results.* (1) The disclosure of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provisions for credit losses, and net income under this section must be on a cumulative basis over the planning horizon.


(2) The disclosure of regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Corporation under this section must include the beginning value, ending value, and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.



---

[N] [77 FR 62424, Oct. 15, 2012, as amended at 79 FR 69369, Nov. 21, 2014. Redesignated at 83 FR 17740, Apr. 24, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 4249, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 56934, Oct. 24, 2019; 84 FR 64985, Nov. 26, 2019]




