# § 400.90   Definitions.

*Act.* The Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501-1524). 


*Administrative review.* A review within the Department of Agriculture of an adverse decision. 


*Adverse decision.* A decision by an employee or Director of the Agency that is adverse to the participant. The term includes the denial of program benefits, written agreements, eligibility, etc. that results in the participant receiving less funds than the participant believes should have been paid or not receiving a benefit to which the participant believes he or she was entitled. 


*Agency.* RMA or FCIC, including the RO, FAOB or any other division within the Agency with decision making authority. 


*Appellant.* Any participant who requests an administrative review or mediation, or both, of an adverse decision of the Agency in accordance with this subpart. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the term “appellant” includes an authorized representative. 


*Authorized representative.* Any person, whether or not an attorney, who has obtained a Privacy Act waiver and is authorized in writing by a participant to act for the participant in the administrative review, mediation, or appeal process. 


*Certified State.* A State with a mediation program, approved by the Secretary, that meets the requirements of 7 CFR part 1946, subpart A, or a successor regulation. 


*FAOB.* Financial and Accounting Operations Branch.


*FCIC.* The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, a wholly owned Government corporation within USDA. 


*FSA.* The Farm Service Agency, an agency within USDA, or its successor agency. 


*Good farming practices.* For agricultural commodities insured under the terms contained in 7 CFR part 457 and all other crop insurance policies authorized under the Act, except as provided herein, means the good farming practices as defined at 7 CFR 457.8. For agricultural commodities insured under the terms contained in 7 CFR part 407, means the good farming practices as defined at 7 CFR 407.9. 


*Insured.* An individual or entity that has applied for crop insurance or who holds a crop insurance policy that was in effect for the previous crop year and continues to be in effect for the current crop year. 


*Mediation.* A process in which a trained, impartial, neutral third party (the mediator), meets with the disputing parties, facilitates discussions, and works with the parties to mutually resolve their disputes, narrow areas of disagreement, and improve communication. 


*NAD.* The USDA National Appeals Division. See 7 CFR part 11. 


*Non-certified State.* A State that is not approved by the Secretary of Agriculture to participate in the USDA Mediation Program under 7 CFR part 1946, subpart A, or its successor regulation. 


*Participant.* An individual or entity that has applied for crop insurance or who holds a valid crop insurance policy that was in effect for the previous crop year and continues to be in effect for the current crop year. The term does not include individuals or entities whose claims arise under the programs excluded in the definition of participant published at 7 CFR 11.1. 


*Reinsured company.* A private insurance company, including its agents, that has been approved and reinsured by FCIC to provide insurance to participants. 


*Reviewing authority.* A person assigned the responsibility by the Agency of making a decision on a request for administrative review by the participant in accordance with this subpart. 


*RMA.* The Risk Management Agency, an agency within USDA, or its successor agency. 


*RO.* The Regional Office established by the agency for the purpose of providing program and underwriting services for private insurance companies reinsured by FCIC under the Act and for FCIC insurance contracts delivered through FSA offices.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Agriculture. 


*USDA.* United States Department of Agriculture. 



---

[N] [67 FR 13251, Mar. 22, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 37720, June 25, 2003; 74 FR 8704, Feb. 26, 2009]




