# ยง 14.20   Dissemination to individuals and firms outside the executive branch.

Request for classified information received from sources outside the executive branch of the Federal Government, provided the information has been originated by the DOL, will be honored in accordance with the following guidelines:


(a) *Top Secret information.* All requests for Top Secret information by an individual or firm outside the executive branch must be referred promptly to the OASAM for consideration on an individual basis.


(b) *Secret and Confidential information.* Subject to the restrictions below, Secret or Confidential information may be furnished to an individual or firm outside the executive branch if the action furthers the official program of the organization unit in which the information originated. The official furnishing such information must ensure that the individuals to whom the information is to be furnished have the appropriate DOL clearance, or at least clearance for the same or higher classification for another Federal department, or outside agency whose security clearances are acceptable to the DOL. The official must also ensure that the person to whom the classified information is being furnished possess the proper facilities for safeguarding such information. No Secret or Confidential information may be furnished to an individual or firm outside the executive branch without written concurrence from the primary organizational unit head or the Security Officer of that unit.


(c) *Unauthorized knowledge of classified information.* Upon receipt of a request for classified information which raised a suspicion that an individual or organization outside the executive branch has unauthorized knowledge of the existence of Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret information, a report providing all available details must be immediately submitted to the DOL Document Security Officer for appropriate action and disposition.


(d) *Requests from outside the United States.* All requests from outside the United States for Top Secret, Secret or Confidential information, except those received from foreign offices of the primary organizational unit or from U.S. embassies or similar missions, will be referred to the Deputy Under Secretary for International Labor Affairs.


(e) *Access by historical researchers.* Individuals outside the executive branch engaged in historical research may be authorized access to classified information over which the DOL has jurisdiction provided:


(1) The research and need for access conform to the requirements of section 4-3 of Executive Order 12356.


(2) The information requested is reasonably accessible and can be located and compiled with a reasonable amount of effort.


(3) The researcher agrees to safeguard the information in a manner consistent with E.O. 12356 and directives thereunder.


(4) The researcher agrees to a review of the notes and manuscript to determine that no classified information is contained therein.


(f) *Access by former presidential appointees.* Individuals who have previously occupied policymaking positions to which they were appointed by the President may be authorized access to classified information which they originated, reviewed, signed, or received while in public office. Upon request, information identified by such individuals will be reviewed for declassification in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.



---

[N] [50 FR 51391, Dec. 17, 1985, as amended at 72 FR 37098, July 9, 2007]




