# § 424.5   Basic conditions.

(a) As a basis for Medicare payment, the following conditions must be met: 


(1) *Types of services.* The services must be— 


(i) Covered services, as specified in part 409 or part 410 of this chapter; or 


(ii) Services excluded from coverage as custodial care or services not reasonable and necessary, but reimbursable in accordance with §§ 405.332 through 405.334 of this chapter, pertaining to limitation of liability. 


(2) *Sources of services.* The services must have been furnished by a provider, nonparticipating hospital, or supplier that was, at the time it furnished the services, qualified to have payment made for them. 


(3) *Beneficiary of services.* Except as provided in § 409.68 of this chapter, the services must have been furnished while the individual was eligible to have payment made for them. (Section 409.68 provides for payment of inpatient hospital services furnished before the hospital is notified that the beneficiary has exhausted the Medicare benefits available for the current benefit period.) 


(4) *Certification of need for services.* When required, the provider must obtain certification and recertification of the need for the services in accordance with subpart B of this part. 


(5) *Claim for payment.* The provider, supplier, or beneficiary, as appropriate, must file a claim that includes or makes reference to a request for payment, in accordance with subpart C of this part. 


(6) *Sufficient information.* The provider, supplier, or beneficiary, as appropriate, must furnish to the intermediary or carrier sufficient information to determine whether payment is due and the amount of payment. 


(b) Additional conditions applicable in certain circumstances or to certain services are set forth in other sections of this part. 



---

[N] [53 FR 6635, Mar. 2, 1988; 53 FR 12945, Apr. 20, 1988; 60 FR 38271, July 26, 1995]




