# § 49.154   Permit application requirements.

This section applies to you if you are subject to this program under § 49.153(a) for the construction of a new minor source, synthetic minor source or a modification at an existing source.


(a) *What information must my permit application contain?* Paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section govern the content of your application.


(1) *General provisions for permit applications.* The following provisions apply to permit applications under this program:


(i) The reviewing authority may develop permit application forms for your use.


(ii) The permit application need not contain information on the exempt emissions units and activities listed in § 49.153(c).


(iii) The permit application for a modification need only include information on the affected emissions units as defined in § 49.152(d).


(2) *Required permit application content.* Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, you must include the information listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section in your application for a permit under this program. The reviewing authority may require additional information as needed to process the permit application.


(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.


(ii) A description of your source's processes and products.


(iii) A list of all affected emissions units (with the exception of the exempt emissions units and activities listed in § 49.153(c)).


(iv) For each new emissions unit that is listed, the potential to emit of each regulated NSR pollutant in tpy (including fugitive emissions, to the extent that they are quantifiable, if the emissions unit or source is in one of the source categories listed in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.4(iii) or § 52.21(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, as applicable), with supporting documentation. In your calculation of the potential to emit for an emissions unit, you must account for any proposed emission limitations.


(v) For each modified emissions unit and replacement unit that is listed, the allowable emissions of each regulated NSR pollutant in tpy both before and after the modification (including fugitive emissions, to the extent that they are quantifiable, if the emissions unit or source belongs to one of the source categories listed in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.4(iii) or § 52.21(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, as applicable), with supporting documentation. For emissions units that do not have an allowable emissions limit prior to the modification, report the potential to emit. In your calculation of annual allowable emissions for an emissions unit after the modification, you must account for any proposed emission limitations.


(vi) The following information to the extent it is needed to determine or regulate emissions: Fuels, fuel use, raw materials, production rates and operating schedules.


(vii) Identification and description of any existing air pollution control equipment and compliance monitoring devices or activities.


(viii) Any existing limitations on source operation affecting emissions or any work practice standards, where applicable, for all NSR regulated pollutants at the source.


(ix) For each emission point associated with an affected emissions unit, provide stack or vent dimensions and flow information.


(3) *Optional permit application content.* At your option, you may propose emission limitations for each affected emissions unit, which may include pollution prevention techniques, air pollution control devices, design standards, equipment standards, work practices, operational standards or a combination thereof. You may include an explanation of why you believe the proposed emission limitations to be appropriate.


(b) *How is my permit application determined to be complete?* Paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section govern the completeness review of your permit application.


(1) An application for a permit under this program will be reviewed by the reviewing authority within 45 days of its receipt (60 days for minor modifications at major sources) to determine whether the application contains all the information necessary for processing the application.


(2) If the reviewing authority determines that the application is not complete, it will request additional information from you as necessary to process the application. If the reviewing authority determines that the application is complete, it will notify you in writing. The reviewing authority's completeness determination or request for additional information should be postmarked within 45 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority (60 days for minor modifications at major sources). If you do not receive a request for additional information or a notice of complete application postmarked within 45 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority (60 days for minor modifications at major sources), your application will be deemed complete.


(3) If, while processing an application that has been determined to be complete, the reviewing authority determines that additional information is necessary to evaluate or take final action on the application, it may request additional information from you and require your responses within a reasonable time period.


(4) Any permit application will be granted or denied no later than 135 days (1 year for minor modifications at major sources) after the date the application is deemed complete and all additional information necessary to make an informed decision has been provided.


(c) *How will the reviewing authority determine the emission limitations that will be required in my permit?* After determining that your application is complete, the reviewing authority will conduct a case-by-case control technology review to determine the appropriate level of control, if any, necessary to assure that NAAQS are achieved, as well as the corresponding emission limitations for the affected emissions units at your source.


(1) In carrying out this case-by-case control technology review, the reviewing authority will consider the following factors:


(i) Local air quality conditions.


(ii) Typical control technology or other emissions reduction measures used by similar sources in surrounding areas.


(iii) Anticipated economic growth in the area.


(iv) Cost-effective emission reduction alternatives.


(2) The reviewing authority must require a numerical limit on the quantity, rate or concentration of emissions for each regulated NSR pollutant emitted by each affected emissions unit at your source for which such a limit is technically and economically feasible.


(3) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority may consist of numerical limits on the quantity, rate or concentration of emissions; pollution prevention techniques; design standards; equipment standards; work practices; operational standards; requirements relating to the operation or maintenance of the source or any combination thereof.


(4) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority must assure that each affected emissions unit will comply with all requirements of parts 60, 61 and 63 of this chapter as well as any FIPs or TIPs that apply to the unit.


(5) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority must not be affected in a manner by so much of a stack's height as exceeds good engineering practice or by any other dispersion technique, except as provided in § 51.118(b) of this chapter. If the reviewing authority proposes to issue a permit to a source based on a good engineering practice stack height that exceeds the height allowed by § 51.100(ii)(1) or (2) of this chapter, it must notify the public of the availability of the demonstration study and must provide opportunity for a public hearing according to the requirements of § 49.157 for the draft permit.


(d) *When may the reviewing authority require an air quality impacts analysis (AQIA)?* Paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section govern AQIA requirements under this program.


(1) If the reviewing authority has reason to be concerned that the construction of your minor source or modification would cause or contribute to a NAAQS or PSD increment violation, it may require you to conduct and submit an AQIA.


(2) If required, you must conduct the AQIA using the dispersion models and procedures of part 51, Appendix W of this chapter.


(3) If the AQIA reveals that construction of your source or modification would cause or contribute to a NAAQS or PSD increment violation, the reviewing authority must require you to reduce or mitigate such impacts before it can issue you a permit.




