# ยง 503.60   Definitions.

(a) *Agency* means each authority of the government of the United States as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(1) and shall include any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation or other establishment in the executive branch of the government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency. 


(b) *Commission* means the Federal Maritime Commission. 


(c) *Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to whom a record pertains. 


(d) *Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate. 


(e) *Person* means any person not an individual and shall include, but is not limited to, corporations, associations, partnerships, trustees, receivers, personal representatives, and public or private organizations. 


(f) *Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by the Federal Maritime Commission, including but not limited to a person's education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history, and that contains the person's name, or the identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print, or a photograph. 


(g) *Routine use* means [with respect to the disclosure of a record], the use of such records for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected. 


(h) *Statistical record* means a record in a system of records, maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, but shall not include matter pertaining to the Census as defined in 13 U.S.C. 8. 


(i) *System of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Commission from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. 



---

[N] [49 FR 44401, Nov. 6, 1984; 49 FR 47395, Dec. 4, 1984] 




