# § 622.403   Seasons.

(a) *EEZ off the southern Atlantic states, other than Florida.* In the EEZ off the southern Atlantic states, other than Florida, there are no seasonal restrictions on the harvest of spiny lobster or on the possession of traps.


(b) *EEZ off Florida and off the Gulf states, other than Florida*—(1) *Commercial and recreational fishing season.* The commercial and recreational fishing season for spiny lobster in the EEZ off Florida and the EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida, begins on August 6 and ends on March 31.


(2) *Special recreational fishing seasons*—(i) *EEZ off Florida.* There is a 2-day special recreational fishing season in the EEZ off Florida on the last Wednesday and successive Thursday of July each year during which fishing for spiny lobster is limited to diving or use of a bully net or hoop net. (See § 622.404 for general prohibitions on gear and methods.) In the EEZ off Monroe County, Florida, no person may harvest spiny lobster by diving at night, that is, from 1 hour after official sunset to 1 hour before official sunrise, during this 2-day special recreational fishing season.


(ii) *EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida.* There is a 2-day special recreational fishing season in the EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida, during the last Saturday and successive Sunday of July each year during which fishing for spiny lobster may be conducted by authorized gear and methods other than traps. (See § 622.404 for prohibitions on gear and methods.)


(3) *Possession of traps.* (i) In the EEZ off Florida, the rules and regulations applicable to the possession of spiny lobster traps in Florida's waters in Rule 68B-24.005(3), (4), and (5), Florida Administrative Code, in effect as of November 1, 2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 622.19), apply in their entirety to the possession of spiny lobster traps in the EEZ off Florida. A spiny lobster trap, buoy, or rope in the EEZ off Florida, during periods not authorized will be considered derelict and may be disposed of in accordance with Rules 68B-55.002 and 68B-55.004 of the Florida Administrative Code, in effect as of October 15, 2007 (incorporated by reference, see § 622.19). An owner of such trap, buoy, or rope remains subject to appropriate civil penalties.


(ii) In the EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida, a spiny lobster trap may be placed in the water prior to the commercial and recreational fishing season, which is specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, beginning on August 1 and must be removed from the water after such season not later than April 5. A spiny lobster trap, buoy, or rope in the EEZ off the Gulf states, other than Florida, during periods not authorized in this paragraph will be considered unclaimed or abandoned property and may be disposed of in any manner considered appropriate by the Assistant Administrator or an authorized officer. An owner of such trap, buoy, or rope remains subject to appropriate civil penalties.


(4) *Possession of spiny lobsters.* In the EEZ off Florida and the Gulf states, a whole or a part of a spiny lobster subject to these regulations may only be possessed during the commercial and recreational fishing season and the special recreational fishing season specified in § 622.403, unless accompanied by proof of lawful harvest in the waters of a foreign nation. Consistent with the provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, a spiny lobster in a trap in this area will not be deemed to be possessed provided such spiny lobster is returned immediately to the water unharmed when a trap is removed from the water between March 31 and April 15.


(c) *Primacy of seasonal restrictions in the EEZ off Florida.* The seasonal restrictions applicable in the EEZ off Florida apply to all spiny lobsters and traps in the EEZ off Florida, without regard to harvest or use elsewhere, unless accompanied by proof of lawful harvest elsewhere.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 37151, July 31, 2019; 87 FR 56237, Sept. 13, 2022]




