# § 1234.30   How does an agency request authority to establish or relocate records storage facilities?

(a) *General policy.* Agencies are responsible for ensuring that records in their legal custody are stored in appropriate space as outlined in this part. Under § 1232.18(a), agencies are responsible for initiating action to remove records from space that does not meet these standards if deficiencies are not corrected within 6 months after initial discovery of the deficiencies by NARA or the agency and to complete removal of the records within 18 months after initial discovery of the deficiencies.


(1) *Agency records centers.* Agencies must obtain prior written approval from NARA before establishing or relocating an agency records center. Each separate agency records center must be specifically approved by NARA prior to the transfer of any records to that individual facility. If an agency records center has been approved for the storage of Federal records of one agency, any other agency that proposes to store its records in that facility must still obtain NARA approval to do so.


(2) *Commercial records storage facilities.* An agency may contract for commercial records storage services. However, before any agency records are transferred to a commercial records storage facility, the transferring agency must ensure that the facility meets all of the requirements for an agency records storage facility set forth in this subpart and must submit the documentation required in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Exclusions.* For purposes of this section, the term “agency records center” excludes NARA-owned and operated records centers. For purposes of this section and § 1234.34, the term “agency records center” also excludes agency records staging and/or holding areas with a capacity for containing less than 25,000 cubic feet of records. However, such records centers and areas, including records centers operated and maintained by NARA, must comply with the facility standards in §§ 1234.10 through 1234.14.


(c) *Content of requests for agency records centers.* Submit requests for authority to establish or relocate an agency records center, or to use an agency records center operated by another agency, to NARA by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Storage Coordination and Logistics (B-AD); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001. The request must identify the specific facility and, for requests to establish or relocate the agency's own records center, document compliance with the standards in this subpart. Documentation requirements for § 1234.12(s) are specified in § 1234.32.


(d) *Approval of requests for agency records centers.* NARA will review the submitted documentation to ensure the facility demonstrates full compliance with the standards in this subpart. NARA reserves the right to visit the facility, if necessary, to make the determination of compliance. NARA will inform the agency of its decision within 45 calendar days after the request is received, and will provide the agency information on the areas of noncompliance if the request is denied. Requests will be denied only if NARA determines that the facility does not demonstrate full compliance with the standards in this subpart. Approvals will be valid for a period of 10 years, unless the facility is materially changed before then or an agency or NARA inspection finds that the facility does not meet the standards in this subpart. Material changes require submission of a new request for NARA approval.


(e) *Documentation requirements for storing Federal records in commercial records storage facilities.* At least 45 calendar days before an agency first transfers records to a commercial records storage facility, the agency must submit documentation to NARA that the facility complies with the standards in this subpart.

 The documentation may take the form of a copy of the agency's contract that incorporates this subpart in its provisions or a statement from the agency records officer that certifies that the facility meets the standards in this subpart. 

An agency must provide the documentation for each separate commercial records storage facility where its records will be stored.

Send documentation to NARA by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Storage Coordination and Logistics (B-AD); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001. The agency must submit updated documentation to NARA every 10 years if it continues to store records in that commercial records storage facility.



---

[N] [74 FR 51014, Oct. 2, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 13655, Mar. 30, 2018]




