# § 334.865   Naval Air Station North Island, San Diego, California, restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The waters within an area beginning at 32°42′55.0″ N, 117°11′30.5″ W; thence running easterly to 32°42′57.0″ N, 117°11′22.5″ W; thence running easterly to 32°42′56.0″ N, 117°11′19.0″ W; thence running southeasterly to 32°42′49.0″ N, 117°11′08.5″ W; thence running southeasterly to 32°42′44.5″ N, 117°11′06.5″ W; thence running southerly to 32°42′40.0″ N, 117°11′06.5″ W.


(b) *The regulation.* (1) The restricted area shall not be open to swimming, fishing, water-skiing, mooring or anchorage. 


(2) Dragging, seining, other fishing operations, and other activities not under the direction of the United States, which might foul underwater installations within the restricted area, are prohibited. 


(3) All tows entering the restricted area shall be streamed and shortened to the seaward of the area and towing appendages and catenaries shall not be dragged along the bottom while proceeding through the area. 


(4) All vessels entering the restricted area shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay. 


(5) No vessel or craft of any size shall lie-to or anchor in the restricted area at any time other than a vessel operated by or for components, or other vessels authorized by Commander, Navy Region Southwest, or his/her designee. 


(6) When security conditions dictate, Naval security forces may impose strict enforcement of stand-off distances within the restricted area. This enforcement will not prevent utilization of navigable channels, but will serve to control its use in order to protect vital National interests. 


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulation in this section, promulgated by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, shall be enforced by the Commander, Navy Region Southwest, and such agencies or persons as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [68 FR 37972, June 26, 2003]




