# ยง 1336.10   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, unless the context otherwise requires:


*Act* means the Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2991 *et seq.*).


*Alaskan Native* means a person who is an Alaskan Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut, or any combination thereof. The term also includes any person who is regarded as an Alaskan Native by the Alaskan Native Village or group of which he or she claims to be a member and whose father or mother is (or, if deceased, was) regarded as an Alaskan Native by an Alaskan Native Village or group. The term includes any Alaskan Native as so defined, either or both of whose adoptive parents are not Alaskan Natives.


*American Indian or Indian* means any individual who is a member or a descendant of a member of a North American tribe, band, Pueblo or other organized group of native people who are indigenous to the Continental United States, or who otherwise have a special relationship with the United States or a State through treaty, agreement, or some other form of recognition. This includes any individual who claims to be an Indian and who is regarded as such by the Indian tribe, group, band, or community of which he or she claims to be a member.


*ANA* means the Administration for Native Americans within the Office of Human Development Services.


*Applicant* means an organization which has applied for financial assistance from ANA.


*Budget period* means the interval of time into which a project period is divided for budgetary and funding purposes, and for which a grant is made. A budget period usually lasts one year in a multi-year project period.


*Economic and social self-sufficiency* means the ability of Native Americans to define and achieve their own economic and social goals.


*Indian tribe* means a distinct political community of Indians which exercises powers of self-government.


*Native American* means American Indian, Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native, as defined in the Act, or in this section.


*Project period* means, for discretionary grants and cooperative agreements, the total time for which the recipient's project or program is approved for support, including any extension, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress, and a determination by HHS that continued funding is in the best interest of the Government.


*Recipient* means an organization which has applied for financial assistance, and to which financial assistance is awarded under this Act. The term includes grantees and recipients of cooperative agreements.




