# § 1081.201   Answer and disclosure statement and notification of financial interest.

(a) *Time to file answer.* Within 14 days of service of the notice of charges, respondent must file an answer as designated in the notice of charges.


(b) *Content of answer.* An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice of charges and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice of charges which is not denied in the answer is deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice of charges that constitutes the request for relief or proposed order. A respondent must affirmatively state in the answer any avoidance or affirmative defense, including but not limited to res judicata and statute of limitations. Failure to do so will be deemed a waiver.


(c) *If the allegations of the notice of charges are admitted.* If the respondent elects not to contest the allegations of fact set forth in the notice of charges, the answer will consist of a statement that the respondent admits all the material allegations to be true. Such an answer constitutes a waiver of hearings as to the facts alleged in the notice of charges, and together with the notice of charges will provide a record basis on which the hearing officer will issue preliminary findings and conclusions, containing appropriate findings and conclusions and a proposed order disposing of the proceeding. In such an answer, the respondent may, however, reserve the right to submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law under § 1081.305.


(d) *Default.* (1) Failure of a respondent to file an answer within the time provided will be deemed to constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to appear and contest the allegations of the notice of charges and to authorize the hearing officer, without further notice to the respondent, to find the facts to be as alleged in the notice of charges and to enter preliminary findings and conclusions containing appropriate findings and conclusions. In such cases, respondent will have no right to appeal pursuant to § 1081.402, but must instead proceed pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) A motion to set aside a default must be made within a reasonable time, state the reasons for the failure to appear or defend, and specify the nature of the proposed defense in the proceeding. In order to prevent injustice and on such conditions as may be appropriate, the hearing officer, at any time prior to the filing of the preliminary findings and conclusions, or the Director, at any time, may for good cause shown set aside a default.


(e) *Disclosure statement and notification of financial interest*—(1) *Who must file; contents.* A respondent, nongovernmental intervenor, or nongovernmental amicus must file a disclosure statement and notification of financial interest that:


(i) Identifies any parent corporation, any publicly owned corporation owning ten percent or more of its stock, and any publicly owned corporation not a party to the proceeding that has a financial interest in the outcome of the proceeding and the nature of that interest; or


(ii) States that there are no such corporations.


(2) *Time for filing; supplemental filing.* A respondent, nongovernmental intervenor, or nongovernmental amicus must:


(i) File the disclosure statement with its first appearance, pleading, motion, response, or other request addressed to the hearing officer or the Bureau; and


(ii) Promptly file a supplemental statement if any required information changes.




