# § 624.5   Definitions.

The following terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Access point.* Any permanent connection (including those metered or closed at times) to the through lanes or shoulders, managed lanes, collector-distributor roads, or ramps on the Interstate System, including “locked gate access”.


*Area of influence.* The geographic extent to which a proposed change in access will affect traffic operations and safety.


*Change in access.* The addition of a new, or modification of an existing, interchange or access point along the Interstate System.


*Final approval.* Acceptance for the proposed change in access granted by FHWA upon completion of the appropriate transportation planning, air quality conformity, and environmental review requirements under National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and receiving concurrence on the Safety, Operations, and Engineering (SO&E) determination.


*Interchange.* A system of interconnecting roadways in conjunction with one or more grade separations that provides for the movement of traffic between two or more roadways or highways on different levels.


*Interstate Access Justification Report (IAJR).* A technical report that documents the safety, operations, and engineering aspects of a proposed change in access to the Interstate System and demonstrates that the proposal meets the provisions of this part.


*Interstate System.* The term “Interstate System” as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101, and includes mainline lanes; shoulders; existing, new, or modified ramps; collector-distributor roads; managed lanes (including high-occupancy vehicle lanes, value priced lanes, high-occupancy toll lanes, or exclusive or special use lanes); ramp termini; and portions of frontage roads that function as part of an interchange. For purposes of this part, the Interstate System shall be limited to those routes for which Federal-aid highway funds or other funds administered under title 23, United States Code, have been used in the past or will be used to develop a project.


*Partial interchange.* An interchange that does not provide for each of the eight basic movements (or four basic movements in the case of a three-legged interchange).


*Programmatic Agreement (PA).* Agreement between FHWA and a State DOT under 23 U.S.C. 111(e) to allow a State to review and make the Safety, Operations, and Engineering (SO&E) determination.


*Public road.* The term “public road” as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101.


*Safety, Operations, and Engineering (SO&E) determination.* Technical determination of whether the proposed location, configuration, geometric design, and signing related to the proposed change in access may be reasonably expected to serve the anticipated traffic of the Interstate System in a manner that is conducive to safety, durability, and economy of maintenance.


*Safety rest area.* The term “safety rest area” as defined in 23 CFR 752.3(a) that is located within the Interstate System right-of-way.






