# ยง 740.19   Performance standards.

(a) *Operations and reclamation.* (1) Surface coal mining and reclamation operations on lands subject to this part shall be conducted in accordance with the performance standards of the applicable regulatory program.


(2) Surface coal mining and reclamation operations on lands containing leased Federal coal shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the terms, conditions and stipulations of the lease issued under the Mineral Leasing Act and its implementing regulations in 43 CFR parts 3400, as applicable, and the mining plan.


(b) *Completion of operations and abandonment.* (1) Upon completion of operations, bonds shall be released in accordance with ยง 740.15(d) of this chapter.


(2) Where there is a Federal lease bond:


(i) Not less than 30 days prior to permanent cessation or abandonment of surface coal mining and reclamation operations, the person conducting those operations shall submit to OSM, in duplicate, a notice of intention to cease or abandon those operations, with a statement of the number of acres affected by the operations, the extent and kind of reclamation accomplished and the structures and other facilities that are to be removed from or remain on the permit area.


(ii) Upon receipt of this notice, the Bureau of Land Management and the appropriate Federal land management agency shall promptly make joint inspections to determine whether all operations have been completed in accordance with the requirements of 43 CFR parts 3400, the lease or licenses and the mining plan. Where all of these requirements have been complied with, the liability under the lease bond of the person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations shall be terminated.


(3) Where OSM is the regulatory authority, public hearings held with respect to final abandonment and releases of the performance bonds shall be in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554 and 43 CFR part 4.



---

[N] [48 FR 6935, Feb. 16, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 44779, Sept. 30, 1983] 




