# ยง 1261.602   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Agency* means:


(1) An Executive agency as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, including U.S. Postal Service and the U.S. Postal Rate Commission;


(2) A military department as defined in section 102 of Title 5, United States Code;


(3) An agency or court in the judicial branch, including a court as defined in section 610 of Title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation;


(4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and


(5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government.


(b) *Creditor agency* means the agency to which the debt is owed.


(c) *Debt* means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources.


(d) *Disposable pay* means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. NASA must exclude deductions listed in OPM's garnishment regulations at 5 CFR 581.105 (b) through (f) to determine disposable pay subject to salary offset.


(e) *Employee* means a current employee of an agency, including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces (Reserves).


(f) *Paying agency* means the agency employing the individual and authorizing the payment of his or her current pay.


(g) *Salary offset* means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.


(h) *Waiver* means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or nonrecovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.




