# ยง 300.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in each act, agreement, convention, or treaty specified in subparts B through K of this part, the terms used in this part have the following meanings: 


*Assistant Administrator* means the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, or a designee. Address: Room 14555, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. 


*Authorized officer* means: 


(1) Any commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard; or any U.S. Coast Guard personnel accompanying and acting under the direction of a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard; 


(2) Any special agent or fisheries enforcement officer of NMFS; or 


(3) Any person designated by the head of any Federal or state agency that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary of Commerce or the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard to enforce the provisions of any statute administered by the Secretary. 


*CCAMLR inspector* means a person designated by a member of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources as an inspector under Article XXIV of the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources to verify compliance with measures in effect under the Convention. 


*Exclusive Economic Zone* or *EEZ* means the zone established by Presidential Proclamation 5030, dated March 10, 1983, as defined in 16 U.S.C. 1802(6). 


*Fishing* or *to fish* means: 


(1) The catching or taking of fish; 


(2) The attempted catching or taking of fish; 


(3) Any other activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching or taking of fish; or 


(4) Any operations at sea in support of, or in preparation for, any activity described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. 


*Fishing vessel* means any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft that is used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type normally used for fishing. 


*IATTC* means the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission, established pursuant to the Convention for the Establishment of an Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. 


*Import* means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction, constitutes an importation within the meaning of the customs laws of the United States. 


*IRCS* means International Radio Call Sign. 


*Magnuson-Stevens Act* means the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*

*National of the United States* or *U.S. national* means any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, including, but not limited to, a citizen or resident of the United States, or a person employed on a vessel of the United States. In the case of a corporation, partnership or other non- natural person, this includes, but is not limited to, any entity that is the owner of a vessel of the United States. 


*NMFS* means the National Marine Fisheries Service, NOAA, Department of Commerce. 


*NMFS Headquarters* means NMFS, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. *Attention:* Office of International Affairs.


*Official number* means the documentation number issued by the USCG or the certificate number issued by a state or the USCG for an undocumented vessel, or any equivalent number if the vessel is registered in a foreign nation. 


*Operator* means, with respect to any vessel, the master or other individual aboard and in charge of that vessel. 


*Owner* means, with respect to any vessel: 


(1) Any person who owns that vessel in whole or part (whether or not the vessel is leased or chartered); 


(2) Any charterer of the vessel, whether bareboat, time, or voyage; 


(3) Any person who acts in the capacity of a charterer, including but not limited to parties to a management agreement, operating agreement, or any similar agreement that bestows control over the destination, function, or operation of the vessel; or 


(4) Any agent designated as such by a person described in this definition. 


*Person* means any individual (whether or not a citizen or national of the United States), any corporation, partnership, association, or other entity (whether or not organized, or existing under the laws of any state), and any Federal, state, local, or foreign government or any entity of any such government. 


*Regional Administrator* means the Administrator of one of the six NMFS Regions, described in Table 1 of ยง 600.502 of this title, or a designee.


*Science and Research Director* means the Director of one of the six NMFS Fisheries Science Centers described in Table 1 of ยง 600.502 of this title, or a designee, also known as the Science Director.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce or a designee. 


*USCG* means the United States Coast Guard. 


*Yellowfin tuna* means any fish of the species *Thunnus albacares* (synonomy: *Neothunnus macropterus*). 



---

[N] [61 FR 35550, July 5, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 59305, Sept. 26, 2011]




