# § 192.929   What are the requirements for using Direct Assessment for Stress Corrosion Cracking?

(a) *Definition.* A Stress Corrosion Cracking Direct Assessment (SCCDA) is a process to assess a covered pipeline segment for the presence of stress corrosion cracking (SCC) by systematically gathering and analyzing excavation data from pipe having similar operational characteristics and residing in a similar physical environment.


(b) *General requirements.* An operator using direct assessment as an integrity assessment method for addressing SCC in a covered pipeline segment must develop and follow an SCCDA plan that meets NACE SP0204 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7) and that implements all four steps of the SCCDA process, including pre-assessment, indirect inspection, detailed examination at excavation locations, and post-assessment evaluation and monitoring. As specified in NACE SP0204, SCCDA is complementary with other inspection methods for SCC, such as in-line inspection or hydrostatic testing with a spike test, and it is not necessarily an alternative or replacement for these methods in all instances. Additionally, the plan must provide for—


(1) *Data gathering and integration.* An operator's plan must provide for a systematic process to collect and evaluate data for all covered pipeline segments to identify whether the conditions for SCC are present and to prioritize the covered pipeline segments for assessment in accordance with NACE SP0204, sections 3 and 4, and Table 1 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7). This process must also include gathering and evaluating data related to SCC at all sites an operator excavates while conducting its pipeline operations (both within and outside covered segments) where the criteria in NACE SP0204 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7) indicate the potential for SCC. This data gathering process must be conducted in accordance with NACE SP0204, section 5.3 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7), and must include, at a minimum, all data listed in NACE SP0204, Table 2 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7). Further, the following factors must be analyzed as part of this evaluation:


(i) The effects of a carbonate-bicarbonate environment, including the implications of any factors that promote the production of a carbonate-bicarbonate environment, such as soil temperature, moisture, the presence or generation of carbon dioxide, or cathodic protection (CP);


(ii) The effects of cyclic loading conditions on the susceptibility and propagation of SCC in both high-pH and near-neutral-pH environments;


(iii) The effects of variations in applied CP, such as overprotection, CP loss for extended periods, and high negative potentials;


(iv) The effects of coatings that shield CP when disbonded from the pipe; and


(v) Other factors that affect the mechanistic properties associated with SCC, including, but not limited to, historical and present-day operating pressures, high tensile residual stresses, flowing product temperatures, and the presence of sulfides.


(2) *Indirect inspection.* In addition to NACE SP0204, the plan's procedures for indirect inspection must include provisions for conducting at least two above ground surveys using the complementary measurement tools most appropriate for the pipeline segment based on an evaluation of integrated data.


(3) *Direct examination.* In addition to NACE SP0204, the plan's procedures for direct examination must provide for an operator conducting a minimum of three direct examinations for SCC within the covered pipeline segment spaced at the locations determined to be the most likely for SCC to occur.


(4) *Remediation and mitigation.* If SCC is discovered in a covered pipeline segment, an operator must mitigate the threat in accordance with one of the following applicable methods:


(i) Removing the pipe with SCC; remediating the pipe with a Type B sleeve; performing hydrostatic testing in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section; or by grinding out the SCC defect and repairing the pipe. If an operator uses grinding for repair, the operator must also perform the following as a part of the repair procedure: nondestructive testing for any remaining cracks or other defects; a measurement of the remaining wall thickness; and a determination of the remaining strength of the pipe at the repair location that is performed in accordance with § 192.712 and that meets the design requirements of §§ 192.111 and 192.112, as applicable. The pipe and material properties an operator uses in remaining strength calculations must be documented in traceable, verifiable, and complete records. If such records are not available, an operator must base the pipe and material properties used in the remaining strength calculations on properties determined and documented in accordance with § 192.607, if applicable.


(ii) Performing a spike pressure test in accordance with § 192.506 based upon the class location of the pipeline segment. The MAOP must be no greater than the test pressure specified in § 192.506(a) divided by: 1.39 for Class 1 locations and Class 2 locations that contain Class 1 pipe that has been uprated in accordance with § 192.611; and 1.50 for all other Class 2 locations and all Class 3 and Class 4 locations. An operator must repair any test failures due to SCC by replacing the pipe segment and re-testing the segment until the pipe passes the test without failures (such as pipe seam or gasket leaks, or a pipe rupture). At a minimum, an operator must repair pipe segments that pass the pressure test but have SCC present by grinding the segment in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.


(5) *Post assessment.* An operator's procedures for post-assessment, in addition to the procedures listed in NACE SP0204, sections 6.3, “periodic reassessment,” and 6.4, “effectiveness of SCCDA,” must include the development of a reassessment plan based on the susceptibility of the operator's pipe to SCC as well as the mechanistic behavior of identified cracking. An operator's reassessment intervals must comply with § 192.939. The plan must include the following factors, in addition to any factors the operator determines appropriate:


(i) The evaluation of discovered crack clusters during the direct examination step in accordance with NACE SP0204, sections 5.3.5.7, 5.4, and 5.5 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7);


(ii) Conditions conducive to the creation of a carbonate-bicarbonate environment;


(iii) Conditions in the application (or loss) of CP that can create or exacerbate SCC;


(iv) Operating temperature and pressure conditions, including operating stress levels on the pipe;


(v) Cyclic loading conditions;


(vi) Mechanistic conditions that influence crack initiation and growth rates;


(vii) The effects of interacting crack clusters;


(viii) The presence of sulfides; and


(ix) Disbonded coatings that shield CP from the pipe.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-132, 87 FR 52276, Aug. 24, 2022]






