# § 3582.2-2   Excepted areas.

The following areas shall not be opened to mineral leasing:


(a) *Lake Mead National Recreation Area.* (1) All waters of Lakes Mead and Mohave and all lands within 300 feet of those lakes measured horizontally from the shoreline at maximum water surface elevations.


(2) All lands within the area of supervision of the Bureau of Reclamation around Hoover and Davis Dams and all lands within any developed and/or concentrated public use area or other area of outstanding recreational significance as designated by the Superintendent on the map (NRA-L.M. 2291A, dated July 1966) of Lake Mead National Recreation Area which is available for inspection in the Office of the Superintendent.


(b) *Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.* (1) All waters of Whiskeytown Lake and all lands within 1 mile of that lake measured from the shoreline at maximum surface elevation.


(2) All lands classified as high density recreation, general outdoor recreation, outstanding natural and historic, as shown on the map numbered 611-20, 004B, dated April 1976 entitled “Land Classification, Whiskeytown Unit, Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area.” This map is available for public inspection in the Office of the Superintendent.


(3) All lands within section 34 of Township 33 north, Range 7 west, Mt. Diablo Meridian.


(c) *Ross Lake and Lake Chelan National Recreation Areas.* (1) All of Lake Chelan National Recreation Area.


(2) All lands within one-half mile of Gorge, Diablo and Ross Lakes measured from the shoreline at maximum surface elevation.


(3) All lands proposed for or designated as wilderness.


(4) All lands within one-half mile of State Highway 20.


(5) Pyramid Lake Research Natural Area and all lands within one-half mile of its boundaries.


(d) *Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.* Those areas closed to mineral disposition within the natural zone, development zone, cultural zone and portions of the recreation and resource utilization zone as shown on the map numbered 80,002A, dated March 1980, entitled “Mineral Management Plan—Glen Canyon National Recreation Area.” This map is available for public inspection in the Office of the Superintendent and the Offices of the State Directors, Bureau of Land Management, Arizona and Utah.



---

[N] [51 FR 15213, Apr. 22, 1986; 51 FR 25204, July 11, 1986]




