# ยง 8.212   Review of CLA decisions.

(a) *Seeking review from a CLA.* Any party aggrieved by an action taken by a CLA must first seek review from the CLA. The CLA should respond to appeals of their decisions in a timely manner and within 10 business days of receipt of a request for review.


(b) *Seeking review from the Commission.* A party aggrieved by an action taken by a CLA may, after seeking review by the CLA, seek review from the Commission.


(c) *Filing deadlines.* (1) An aggrieved party seeking review of a CLA decision by the CLA shall submit such a request within sixty (60) days from the date the CLA issues a decision. Such request shall be deemed submitted when received by the CLA.


(2) An aggrieved party seeking review of a CLA decision by the Commission shall file such a request within sixty (60) days from the date the CLA issues a decision on the party's request for review. Parties must adhere to the time periods for filing oppositions and replies set forth in 47 CFR 1.45.


(d) *Review by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau or the Commission.* (1) Requests for review of CLA decisions that are submitted to the Federal Communications Commission shall be considered and acted upon by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau; provided, however, that requests for review that raise novel questions of fact, law or policy shall be considered by the full Commission.


(2) An aggrieved party may seek review of a decision issued under delegated authority by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau pursuant to the rules set forth in 47 CFR part 1.


(e) *Standard of review.* (1) The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall conduct de novo review of request for review of decisions issued by the CLA.


(2) The Federal Communications Commission shall conduct de novo review of requests for review of decisions by the CLA that involve novel questions of fact, law, or policy; provided, however, that the Commission shall not conduct de novo review of decisions issued by the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau under delegated authority.


(f) *Time periods for Commission review of CLA decisions.* (1) The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall, within forty-five (45) days, take action in response to a request for review of a CLA decision that is properly before it. The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau may extend the time period for taking action on a request for review of a CLA decision for a period of up to ninety days. The Commission may also at any time, extend the time period for taking action of a request for review of a CLA decision pending before the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.


(2) The Commission shall issue a written decision in response to a request for review of a CLA decision that involves novel questions of fact, law, or policy within forty-five (45) days. The Commission may extend the time period for taking action on the request for review of a CLA decision. The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau also may extend action on a request for review of a CLA decision for a period of up to ninety days.


(g) *No authorization pending CLA review.* While a party seeks review of a CLA decision, they are not authorized to use the FCC IoT Label until the Commission issues a final decision authorizing their use of the FCC IoT Label.






