# ยง 313.1   Scope.

This part establishes the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) procedures for the collection of certain debts owed to the United States.


(a) This part applies to collections by the FDIC from:


(1) Federal employees who are indebted to the FDIC;


(2) Employees of the FDIC who are indebted to other agencies;


(3) Other persons, organizations, or entities that are indebted to the FDIC, except those excluded in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and


(4) Civil money penalty debtors assessed civil money penalties by the FDIC.


(b) This part does not apply:


(1) To debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Title 26, U.S. Code), the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*), or the tariff laws of the United States;


(2) To a situation to which the Contract Disputes Act (41 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) applies; or


(3) In any case where collection of a debt is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.


(c) This part applies only to:


(1) Debts owed to and payments made by the FDIC acting in its corporate capacity, that is, in connection with employee matters such as travel-related claims and erroneous overpayments, contracting activities involving corporate operations, debts related to requests to the FDIC for documents under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), or where a request for an offset is received by the FDIC from another Federal agency;


(2) Criminal restitution debt owed to the FDIC in either its corporate capacity or its receivership capacity; and


(3) Civil money penalties arising out of the FDIC's activities in its supervision or enforcement capacities.


(4) With the exception of criminal restitution debt noted in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and civil money penalty debt noted in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, this part does not apply to debts owed to or payments made by the FDIC in connection with the FDIC's liquidation, supervision, enforcement, or insurance responsibilities, nor does it limit or affect the FDIC's authority with respect to debts or claims under 12 U.S.C. 1819(a) and 1820(a).


(d) Subparts B through G of this part do not apply to the collection of civil money penalty debt.


(e) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, under: Standards implementing the Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA) (31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.*); the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) (31 CFR chapter IX); or any other applicable law.




