# ยง 50.23   Public participation.

HUD shall inform the affected public about NEPA-related hearings, public meetings, and the availability of environmental documents (see 40 CFR 1506.6(b)) in accordance with this section. Where project actions result in a FONSI, the FONSI will be available in the project file. The local HUD field office may be contacted by persons who wish to review the FONSI. In all cases, HUD shall mail notices to those who have requested them. Additional efforts for involving the public in specific notice or compliance requirements shall be made in accord with the implementing procedures of the laws and authorities cited in ยง 50.4. Notices pertaining to an EIS or an amendment to an EIS or a FONSI subject to ยง 50.34 shall be given to the public in accordance with paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. 


(a) A NOI/EIS shall be forwarded to the AS/CPD to the attention of the Departmental Environmental Clearance Officer for publication in the _Federal Register._

(b) Notices will be bilingual if the affected public includes a significant portion of non-English speaking persons and will identify a date when the official public involvement element of the proposed action is to be completed and HUD internal processing is to continue. 


(c) All required notices shall be published in an appropriate local printed news medium or on an appropriate government website that is accessible to individuals with disabilities and provides meaningful access for individuals with Limited English Proficiency. The required notices shall be sent to individuals and groups known to be interested in the proposed action.




(d) All notices shall inform the public where additional information may be obtained. 



---

[N] [61 FR 50916, Sept. 27, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 30903, Apr. 23, 2024]




