# ยง 431.304   Uniform test method for the measurement of energy consumption of walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides test procedures for measuring, pursuant to EPCA, the energy consumption of walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers.




(b) *Testing and calculations.* Determine the energy efficiency and/or energy consumption of the specified walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer components by conducting the appropriate test procedure as follows:


(1) *Display panels.* Determine the energy use of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer display panels by conducting the test procedure set forth in appendix A to this subpart.


(2) *Display doors and non-display doors.* Determine the energy use of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer display doors and non-display doors by conducting the test procedure set forth in appendix A to this subpart.


(3) *Non-display panels and non-display doors.* Determine the R-value of insulation of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer non-display panels and non-display doors by conducting the test procedure set forth in appendix B to this subpart.


(4) *Refrigeration systems.* Determine the AWEF and net capacity of walk-in cooler and walk-in freezer refrigeration systems by conducting the test procedures set forth in appendix C or C1 to this subpart, as applicable. Refer to the notes at the beginning of those appendices to determine the applicable appendix to use for testing.


(i) *For unit coolers:* follow the general testing provisions in sections 3.1 and 3.2, and the equipment-specific provisions in section 3.3 of appendix C or sections 4.5 through 4.8 of appendix C1.


(ii) *For dedicated condensing units:* follow the general testing provisions in sections 3.1 and 3.2, and the product-specific provisions in section 3.4 of appendix C or sections 4.5 through 4.8 of appendix C1.


(iii) *For single-packaged dedicated systems:* follow the general testing provisions in sections 3.1 and 3.2, and the product-specific provisions in section 3.3 of appendix C or sections 4.5 through 4.8 of appendix C1.







---

[N] [74 FR 12074, Mar. 23, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 21605, Apr. 15, 2011; 76 FR 33631, June 9, 2011; 76 FR 65365, Oct. 21, 2011; 79 FR 27412, May 13, 2014; 79 FR 32123, June 3, 2014; 81 FR 95802, Dec. 28, 2016; 88 FR 28839, May 4, 2023]




