# § 146.132   Grapefruit juice.

(a) *Identity*—(1) *Description.* Grapefruit juice is the unfermented juice, intended for direct consumption, obtained by mechanical process from sound, mature grapefruit (*Citrus paradisi* Macfadyen) from which seeds and peel (except embryonic seeds and small fragments of seeds and peel which cannot be separated by good manufacturing practice) and excess pulp are removed and to which may be added not more than 10 percent by volume of the unfermented juice obtained from mature hybrids of grapefruit. The juice may be adjusted by the addition of the optional concentrated grapefruit juice ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, but the quantity of such concentrated grapefruit juice ingredient added shall not contribute more than 15 percent of the grapefruit juice soluble solids in the finished food. The grapefruit pulp, grapefruit oil, and grapefruit essence (components derived from grapefruit) content may be adjusted in accordance with good manufacturing practice. The juice may have been concentrated and later reconstituted with water suitable for the purpose of maintaining essential composition and quality factors of the juice. It may be sweetened with the dry nutritive sweeteners referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. If the grapefruit juice is prepared from concentrate, such sweeteners, in liquid form, referred to in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, also may be used. When prepared from concentrated grapefruit juice, exclusive of added sweeteners, the finished food contains not less than 10 percent, by weight, of soluble solids taken as the refractometric sucrose value (of the filtrate), corrected to 20 °C, and corrected for acidity by adding (0.012 + 0.193x-0.0004x
2), where x equals the percent anhydrous citric acid in the sample, to the refractometrically obtained sucrose value by the first method prescribed in “Correction of Refractometer Sucrose Readings for Citric Acid Content for Lemonade,” by Yeatman, Senzel, and Springer, “Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” vol. 59 p. 368 (1976). Copies are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* The food may contain one or any combination of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Grapefruit juice, as defined in this paragraph, may be preserved by heat sterilization (canning), refrigeration, or freezing. When sealed in a container to be held at ambient temperatures, it is so processed by heat, before or after sealing, as to prevent spoilage.


(2) *Optional ingredients.* The optional ingredients referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are:


(i) Concentrated grapefruit juice (grapefruit juice from which part of the water has been removed).


(ii) Water and/or grapefruit juice to reconstitute concentrated grapefruit juice in the manufacture of grapefruit juice from concentrate.


(iii) One or any combination of two or more of the dry or liquid forms of sugar, invert sugar sirup, dextrose, glucose sirup, and fructose. Sweeteners defined in part 168 of this chapter shall be as defined therein.


(3) *Labeling.* (i) The name of the food is:


(*a*) “Grapefruit juice” (*1*) if the food is prepared from unconcentrated, undiluted liquid extracted from mature grapefruit; or (*2*) if the food is prepared from unconcentrated, undiluted liquid extracted from mature grapefruit to which concentrated grapefruit juice is added to adjust soluble solids as provided for in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(*b*) “Grapefruit juice from concentrate” (*1*) if the food is prepared from concentrated grapefruit juice and water and/or grapefruit juice; or (*2*) if the food is prepared from grapefruit juice from concentrate and grapefruit juice. The words “from concentrate” shall be shown in letters not less than one-half the height of the letters in the words “grapefruit juice.”


(ii) If any nutritive sweetener is added, the principal display panel of the label shall bear the statement “Sweetener added.” If no sweetener is added, the word “unsweetened” may immediately precede or follow the words “Grapefruit Juice” or “Grapefruit Juice from Concentrate.”


(iii) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Fill of container.* (1) The standard of fill of container for grapefruit juice, except when the food is frozen, is not less than 90 percent of the total capacity of the container as determined by the general method for fill of container prescribed in § 130.12(b) of this chapter.


(2) Compliance is determined as specified in § 146.3(g)(2).


(3) If the grapefruit juice fails to meet the standard of fill as prescribed in paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in § 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein prescribed.



---

[N] [46 FR 8464, Jan. 27, 1981; 46 FR 21359, Apr. 10, 1981; 46 FR 26300, May 12, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 11830, Mar. 19, 1982; 47 FR 24287, June 4, 1982; 47 FR 43364, Oct. 1, 1982; 58 FR 2881, Jan. 6, 1993; 66 FR 17359, Mar. 30, 2001]




