# § 195.11   What is a regulated rural gathering line and what requirements apply?

Each operator of a regulated rural gathering line, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, must comply with the safety requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(a) *Definition.* As used in this section, a regulated rural gathering line means an onshore gathering line in a rural area that meets all of the following criteria—


(1) Has a nominal diameter from 6
5/8 inches (168 mm) to 8
5/8 inches (219.1 mm);


(2) Is located in or within one-quarter mile (.40 km) of an unusually sensitive area as defined in § 195.6; and


(3) Operates at a maximum pressure established under § 195.406 corresponding to—


(i) A stress level greater than 20-percent of the specified minimum yield strength of the line pipe; or


(ii) If the stress level is unknown or the pipeline is not constructed with steel pipe, a pressure of more than 125 psi (861 kPa) gage.


(b) *Safety requirements.* Each operator must prepare, follow, and maintain written procedures to carry out the requirements of this section. Except for the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section, the safety requirements apply to all materials of construction.


(1) Identify all segments of pipeline meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section before April 3, 2009.


(2) For steel pipelines constructed, replaced, relocated, or otherwise changed after July 3, 2009:


(i) Design, install, construct, initially inspect, and initially test the pipeline in compliance with this part, unless the pipeline is converted under § 195.5.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) For non-steel pipelines constructed after July 3, 2009, notify the Administrator according to § 195.8.


(4) Beginning no later than January 3, 2009, comply with the reporting requirements in subpart B of this part.


(5) Establish the maximum operating pressure of the pipeline according to § 195.406 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.


(6) Install line markers according to § 195.410 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009. Continue to maintain line markers in compliance with § 195.410.


(7) Establish a continuing public education program in compliance with § 195.440 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before January 3, 2010. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.440.


(8) Establish a damage prevention program in compliance with § 195.442 before transportation begins, or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009. Continue to carry out such program in compliance with § 195.442.


(9) For steel pipelines, comply with subpart H of this part, except corrosion control is not required for pipelines existing on July 3, 2008 before July 3, 2011.


(10) For steel pipelines, establish and follow a comprehensive and effective program to continuously identify operating conditions that could contribute to internal corrosion. The program must include measures to prevent and mitigate internal corrosion, such as cleaning the pipeline and using inhibitors. This program must be established before transportation begins or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.


(11) To comply with the Operator Qualification program requirements in subpart G of this part, have a written description of the processes used to carry out the requirements in § 195.505 to determine the qualification of persons performing operations and maintenance tasks. These processes must be established before transportation begins or if the pipeline exists on July 3, 2008, before July 3, 2009.


(c) *New unusually sensitive areas.* If, after July 3, 2008, a new unusually sensitive area is identified and a segment of pipeline becomes regulated as a result, except for the requirements of paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this section, the operator must implement the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(11) of this section for the affected segment within 6 months of identification. For steel pipelines, comply with the deadlines in paragraph (b)(9) and (b)(10).


(d) *Record Retention.* An operator must maintain records demonstrating compliance with each requirement according to the following schedule.


(1) An operator must maintain the segment identification records required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the records required to comply with (b)(10) of this section, for the life of the pipe.


(2) An operator must maintain the records necessary to demonstrate compliance with each requirement in paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(9), and (b)(11) of this section according to the record retention requirements of the referenced section or subpart.



---

[N] [73 FR 31644, June 3, 2008, as amended by Amdt. 195-105, 87 FR 20987, Apr. 8, 2022; Amdt. 195-106, 88 FR 50062, Aug. 1, 2023]




