# ยง 800.104   Phased expansion, etc.

(a) *Phase-in.* OPM may enter into a contract with a health insurance issuer to offer MSP options if the health insurance issuer agrees that:


(1) With respect to the first year for which the health insurance issuer offers MSP options, the health insurance issuer will offer MSP options in at least 60 percent of the States;


(2) With respect to the second such year, the health insurance issuer will offer the MSP options in at least 70 percent of the States;


(3) With respect to the third such year, the health insurance issuer will offer the MSP options in at least 85 percent of the States; and


(4) With respect to each subsequent year, the health insurance issuer will offer the MSP options in all States.


(b) *Partial coverage within a State.* (1) OPM may enter into a contract with an MSP issuer even if the MSP issuer's MSP options for a State cover fewer than all the service areas specified for that State pursuant to ยง 800.110 of this part.


(2) If an issuer offers both an MSP option and QHP on the same Exchange, an MSP issuer must offer MSP coverage in a service area or areas that is equal to the greater of:


(i) The QHP service area defined by the issuer or,


(ii) The service area specified for that State pursuant to ยง 800.110 of this part covered by the issuer's QHP.


(c) *Participation in SHOPs.* (1) An MSP issuer's participation in a Federally-facilitated SHOP must be consistent with the requirements for QHP issuers specified in 45 CFR 156.200(g).


(2) An MSP issuer must comply with State standards governing participation in a State-based SHOP, consistent with ยง 800.114. For these State-based SHOP standards, OPM retains discretion to allow an MSP issuer to phase-in SHOP participation in States pursuant to section 1334(e) of the Affordable Care Act.


(d) *Licensed where offered.* OPM may enter into a contract with an MSP issuer who is not licensed in every State, provided that the issuer is licensed in every State where it offers MSP coverage through any Exchanges in that State and demonstrates to OPM that it is making a good faith effort to become licensed in every State consistent with the timeframe in paragraph (a) of this section.




