# § 429.33   Ceiling fan light kits.

(a) *Determination of represented value.* Manufacturers must determine represented values, which includes certified ratings, for each basic model of ceiling fan light kit in accordance with following sampling provisions.


(1) The requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to ceiling fan light kits, and


(2) For each basic model of ceiling fan light kit, the following sample size requirements are applicable to demonstrate compliance with the January 1, 2007 energy conservation standards:


(i) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with compact fluorescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.35.


(ii) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with integrated light-emitting diode lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.56.


(iii) For ceiling fan light kits with pin-based sockets that are packaged with fluorescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with the sampling requirements in § 429.35.


(iv) For ceiling fan light kits with medium screw base sockets that are packaged with incandescent lamps, determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with the ceiling fan light kit in accordance with § 429.40, § 429.55 or § 429.66, as applicable.


(v) For ceiling fan light kits with sockets or packaged with lamps other than those described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section, each unit must comply with the applicable design standard in § 430.32(s)(5) of this chapter.


(3) For ceiling fan light kits that require compliance with the January 21, 2020 energy conservation standards:


(i) Determine the represented values of each basic model of lamp packaged with each basic model of ceiling fan light kit, in accordance with the specified section:


(A) For compact fluorescent lamps, § 429.35;


(B) For general service fluorescent lamps, § 429.27;


(C) For incandescent lamps, § 429.40, § 429.55 or § 429.66, as applicable;


(D) For integrated LED lamps, § 429.56.


(E) For other fluorescent lamps (not compact fluorescent lamps or general service fluorescent lamps), § 429.35; and


(F) For consumer-replaceable SSL (not integrated LED lamps) and other SSL lamps that have an ANSI standard base and are not integrated LED lamps, § 429.56.


(ii) Determine the represented value of each basic model of non-consumer-replaceable SSL that is incorporated into each basic model of ceiling fan light kit by randomly selecting a sample of sufficient size and testing to ensure that any represented value of the energy efficiency of the integrated SSL circuitry basic model is less than or equal to the lower of:


(A) The mean of the sample, where:


and, x
 is the sample mean; n is the number of samples; and x_i_ is the i
th sample; Or,


(B) The lower 95 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.90, where:



And x
 is the sample mean; s is the sample standard deviation; n is the number of samples; and t_0.95_ is the t statistic for a 95% one-tailed confidence interval with n-1 degrees of freedom (from appendix A to subpart B).






(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to ceiling fan light kits; and


(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following public product-specific information:


(i) For ceiling fan light kits manufactured prior to January 21, 2020:


(A) For ceiling fan light kits with sockets for medium screw base lamps: The rated wattage in watts (W) and the system's efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W).


(B) For ceiling fan light kits with pin-based sockets for fluorescent lamps: The rated wattage in watts (W), the system's efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W), and the length of the lamp in inches (in).


(C) For ceiling fan light kits with any other socket type: The rated wattage in watts (W) and the number of individual sockets.


(ii) For ceiling fan light kits manufactured on or after January 21, 2020:


(A) For each basic model of lamp, each basic model of consumer-replaceable SSL, and/or each basic model of non-consumer-replaceable SSL packaged with the ceiling fan light kit, the brand, basic model number, test sample size, kind of lamp (*i.e.,* general service fluorescent lamp (GSFL); fluorescent lamp with a pin base that is not a GSFL; compact fluorescent lamp (CFL) with a medium screw base; CFL with a base that is not medium screw base [*e.g.,* candelabra base]; other fluorescent lamp [not GSFL or CFL]; general service incandescent lamp (GSIL); candelabra base incandescent lamp; intermediate base incandescent lamp; incandescent reflector lamp; other incandescent lamp [not GSIL, IRL, candelabra base or intermediate base incandescent lamp]; integrated LED lamp; non-consumer-replaceable SSL; consumer-replaceable SSL [not integrated LED lamps] and other SSL lamps that have an ANSI standard base and are not integrated LED lamps; other lamp not specified), lumen output in lumens (lm), and efficacy in lumens per watt (lm/W).








(B) For each lamp basic model identified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section that is a compact fluorescent lamp with a medium screw base, the lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime in percent (%) (and whether the value is estimated), the lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours in percent (%), the lifetime in hours (h) (and whether the value is estimated), and the sample size for rapid cycle stress testing and results in number of units passed (and whether the value is estimated). Estimates of lifetime, lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime, and rapid cycle stress test surviving units may be reported until testing is complete. Manufacturers are required to maintain records of the development of all estimated values and any associated initial test data in accordance with § 429.71.


(3) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report shall include the following additional product-specific information:


(i) For ceiling fan light kits with any other socket type manufactured prior to January 21, 2020, a declaration that the basic model meets the applicable design requirement, and the features that have been incorporated into the ceiling fan light kit to meet the applicable design requirement (*e.g.,* circuit breaker, fuse, ballast).


(ii) For ceiling fan light kits manufactured on or after January 21, 2020:


(A) A declaration that the ceiling fan light kit is packaged with lamps sufficient to fill all of the lamp sockets;


(B) For each basic model of lamp, each basic model of consumer-replaceable SSL, and/or each basic model of non-consumer-replaceable SSL packaged with the ceiling fan light kit, a declaration that, where applicable, the lamp basic model was tested by a laboratory accredited as required under § 430.25 of this chapter; and




(C) For ceiling fan light kits with pin-based sockets for fluorescent lamps, a declaration that each ballast for such lamps is an electronic ballast.


(c) *Rounding requirements.* (1) Any represented value of efficacy of ceiling fan light kits as described in paragraph (a) of this section must be expressed in lumens per watt and rounded to the nearest tenth of a lumen per watt.


(2) Round lumen output to three significant digits.


(3) Round lumen maintenance at 1,000 hours to the nearest tenth of a percent.


(4) Round lumen maintenance at 40 percent of lifetime to the nearest tenth of a percent.


(5) Round lifetime to the nearest whole hour.



---

[N] [76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24772, May 2, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 80225, Dec. 24, 2015; 81 FR 632, Jan. 6, 2016; 81 FR 43425, July 1, 2016; 84 FR 8413, Mar. 8, 2019; 87 FR 43978, July 22, 2022; 87 FR 54330, Sept. 6, 2022; 87 FR 53638, Aug. 31, 2022; 88 FR 21072, Apr. 10, 2023; 89 FR 82062, Oct. 9, 2024]




