# ยง 165.T08-0713   Safety Zone; Lower Mississippi river, Natchez, MS.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: All navigable waters of the Lower Mississippi River from Mile Marker (MM) 368 through MM 370.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Sector Lower Mississippi River (COTP) or the COTP's 

designated representative. A designated representative is a commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard assigned to units under the operational control of USCG Sector Lower Mississippi River.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative via VHF-FM channel 16 or by telephone at 901-521-4822. Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(c) *Enforcement period.* This rule is effective without actual notice on December 18, 2020. For the purposes of enforcement, actual notice will be used from December 9, 2020 until December 17, 2020.


(d) *Information broadcasts.* The COTP or a designated representative will inform the public of the enforcement times and date for this safety zone through Broadcast Notices to Mariners, Local Notices to Mariners, and/or Safety Marine Information Broadcasts, as appropriate.



---

[N] [USCG-2020-0713, 85 FR 82358, Dec. 18, 2020]
































