# ยง 98.146   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required under ยง 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) Annual quantity of each carbonate-based raw material (tons) charged to each continuous glass melting furnace and for all furnaces combined.


(2) Annual quantity of glass produced (tons), by glass type, from each continuous glass melting furnace and from all furnaces combined.


(3) Annual quantity (tons), by glass type, of recycled scrap glass (cullet) charged to each continuous glass melting furnace and for all furnaces combined.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to determine CO_2_ emissions from continuous glass melting furnaces, and process CO_2_ emissions are calculated according to the procedures specified in ยง 98.143(b), then you must report the following information as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section:


(1) Annual process emissions of CO_2_ (metric tons) for each continuous glass melting furnace and for all furnaces combined.


(2) Annual quantity of each carbonate-based raw material charged (tons) to all furnaces combined.


(3) Annual quantity of glass produced (tons), by glass type, from each continuous glass melting furnace and from all furnaces combined.


(4) Annual quantity (tons), by glass type, of recycled scrap glass (cullet) charged to each continuous glass melting furnace and for all furnaces combined.


(5) Results of all tests, if applicable, used to verify the carbonate-based mineral mass fraction for each carbonate-based raw material charged to a continuous glass melting furnace, as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Date of test.


(ii) Method(s) and any variations used in the analyses.


(iii) Mass fraction of each sample analyzed.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) Method used to determine decimal fraction of calcination, unless you used the default value of 1.0.


(8) Total number of continuous glass melting furnaces.


(9) The number of times in the reporting year that missing data procedures were followed to measure monthly quantities of carbonate-based raw materials, recycled scrap glass (cullet), or mass fraction of the carbonate-based minerals for any continuous glass melting furnace (months).







---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66462, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71954, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63786, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89257, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31925, Apr. 25, 2024]












