# § 414.202   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Complex rehabilitative power-driven wheelchair* means a power-driven wheelchair that is classified as—


(1) Group 2 power wheelchair with power options that can accommodate rehabilitative features (for example, tilt in space); or


(2) Group 3 power wheelchair.


*Covered item update* means the percentage increase in the consumer price index for all urban consumers (U.S. city average) (CPI-U) for the 12-month period ending with June of the previous year.


*Durable medical equipment* means equipment, furnished by a supplier or a home health agency that meets the following conditions:


(1) Can withstand repeated use.


(2) Effective with respect to items classified as DME after January 1, 2012, has an expected life of at least 3 years.


(3) Is primarily and customarily used to serve a medical purpose.


(4) Generally is not useful to an individual in the absence of an illness or injury.


(5) Is appropriate for use in the home.


*Prosthetic and orthotic devices* means—


(1) Devices that replace all or part of an internal body organ, including ostomy bags and supplies directly related to ostomy care, and replacement of such devices and supplies;


(2) One pair of conventional eyeglasses or contact lenses furnished subsequent to each cataract surgery with insertion of an intraocular lens; and 


(3) Leg, arm, back, and neck braces, and artificial legs, arms, and eyes, including replacements if required because of a change in the beneficiary's physical condition.


(1) Parenteral and enteral nutrients, supplies, and equipment;


(2) Intraocular lenses;


(3) Medical supplies such as catheters, catheter supplies, ostomy bags, and supplies related to ostomy care that are furnished by an HHA as part of home health services under § 409.40(e) of this chapter;


(4) Dental prostheses.


*Region* means, for the purpose of implementing § 414.210(g), geographic areas defined by the Bureau of Economic Analysis in the United States Department of Commerce for economic analysis purposes, and, for the purpose of implementing § 414.228, those contractor service areas administered by CMS regional offices.


*Rural area* means, for the purpose of implementing § 414.210(g), a geographic area represented by a postal zip code if at least 50 percent of the total geographic area of the area included in the zip code is estimated to be outside any metropolitan area (MSA). A rural area also includes a geographic area represented by a postal zip code that is a low population density area excluded from a competitive bidding area in accordance with the authority provided by section 1847(a)(3)(A) of the Act at the time the rules at § 414.210(g) are applied.



---

[N] [57 FR 57689, Dec. 7, 1992, as amended at 75 FR 73622, Nov. 29, 2010; 76 FR 70314, Nov. 10, 2011; 79 FR 66262, Nov. 6, 2014]




