# § 36.25   Engine exhaust system.

(a) *Construction.* The exhaust system of the engine shall be designed to withstand an internal pressure equal to 4 times the maximum pressure observed in explosion tests, which are described in § 36.46, or a pressure of 125 pounds per square inch, whichever is the lesser. The system shall withstand repeated internal explosions without permanent deformation or deterioration. 


(b) *Exhaust flame arrester.* (1) The exhaust system of the engine shall be provided with a flame arrester to prevent propagation of flame or discharge of heated particles to a surrounding flammable mixture. The flame arrester shall be so positioned that only cooled exhaust gas will discharge through it and shall be so designed and attached that it can be removed for inspecting, cleaning, or repairing. Its construction shall be such that it can be cleaned readily. The flame arrester shall be of rugged construction to withstand the effects of repeated explosions within the exhaust system, and the material of construction shall resist deterioration in service. It shall be so mounted in the equipment assembly that it is protected from accidental external damage. 


(2) A spaced-plate flame arrester for the exhaust system shall meet the same requirements as flame arresters for the intake system (see § 36.23(b)(2)). 


(3) In lieu of a space-place flame arrester, an exhaust-gas cooling box or conditioner may be used as the exhaust flame arrester provided that explosion tests demonstrate that the cooling box will arrest flame. When used as a flame arrester the cooling box shall be equipped with a device to shut off automatically the fuel supply to the engine at a safe minimum water level. A cooling box used as a flame arrester shall withstand repeated explosion tests without permanent deformation. It shall be constructed of material, satisfactory to MSHA, that will resist deterioration in service. 


(c) *Exhaust cooling system.* (1) A cooling system shall be provided for the engine exhaust gas. The heat-dissipation capacity shall be capable of reducing the temperature of the undiluted exhaust gas to less than 170 °F. at the point of discharge from the cooling system under any condition of engine operation acceptable to MSHA. A device shall be provided that will automatically shut off the fuel supply to the engine immediately if the temperature of the exhaust gas exceeds 185 °F. at the point of discharge from the cooling system. Provision shall be made, acceptable to MSHA, to prevent restarting the engine after the fuel supply has been shut off automatically until the water supply in the cooling box has been replenished. When the cooling box is used as a flame arrester, one safety device may be accepted provided it controls a safe minimum water level in the cooling box and also prevents the final exhaust temperature from exceeding 185 °F. 


(2) Cooling shall be obtained by passing the exhaust gas through water or a dilute aqueous chemical solution held in a cooling box or conditioner, or by a spray of water or a dilute aqueous chemical solution that will enter the exhaust system near the outlet of the exhaust manifold, or a combination of the two methods. When a spray is used it shall be provided with a filtering device to protect the nozzle from clogging. Provisions shall be made for draining and cleaning all parts of the exhaust cooling system. Openings for draining and cleaning shall be closed and sealed or locked by a method satisfactory to MSHA. 


(3) The cooling system shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant metal suitable for the intended application. 


(4) The cooling system shall store enough water or aqueous solution to permit operation of the engine at one-third load factor for eight hours. The minimum quantity of usable water or aqueous solution available for cooling shall equal the consumption for one hour with the engine operating at maximum load and speed multiplied by 8 and this product divided by 3. 


(d) *Surface temperature of engine and exhaust system.* (1) The temperature of any external surface of the engine or exhaust system shall not exceed 400 °F. under any condition of engine operation prescribed by MSHA. Water-jacketed components shall have integral jackets and provision shall be made for positive circulation of water in the jackets and to automatically shut off the engine when the temperature in the cooling jacket(s) exceeds 212 °F. Insulated coverings to control surface temperature are not acceptable. 


(2) When a spray is used to reduce the temperature of the exhaust gas, it shall be located as near as practicable to the outlet of the exhaust manifold. 


(3) Exterior surfaces of the exhaust system shall be designed to minimize accumulation and lodgement of dust or combustible substances and to permit ready access for cleaning. 


(e) *Tightness of exhaust system.* All joints in the exhaust system shall be tight to prevent the flow of exhaust gas through them under any condition of engine operation prescribed by MSHA. A tight system shall be obtained by the use of ground joints, or thin metal or metal-clad gaskets. All such joints shall be fitted with adequate through bolts and all gaskets shall be aligned and held firmly in position by the bolts or other suitable means. Such joints shall remain tight to prevent passage of flame or propagation of repeated internal explosions to a surrounding flammable mixture. 


(f) *Dilution of exhaust gas.* (1) Provision shall be made to dilute the exhaust gas with and before it is discharged into the surrounding atmosphere. The discharged exhaust gas shall be so diluted with air that the mixture shall not contain more than 0.5 percent, by volume, of carbon dioxide; 0.01 percent, by volume, of carbon monoxide; 0.0025 percent, by volume, of oxides of nitrogen (calculated as equivalent nitrogen dioxide); or 0.0010 percent, by volume, of aldehydes (calculated as equivalent formaldehyde) under any condition of engine operation prescribed by MSHA. 


(2) The final diluted exhaust mixture shall be discharged in such a manner that it is directed away from the operator's compartment and also away from the breathing zones of persons required to be alongside the equipment. 


(g) *Pressure-gage connection.* A connection shall be provided in the exhaust system for convenient, temporary attachment of a pressure gage at a point suitable for measuring the total back pressure in the system. The connection also shall be suitable for temporary attachment of gas-sampling equipment to the exhaust system. This opening shall be closed by a plug or other suitable device that is sealed or locked in place except when a gage or sampling tube is attached. 




