# § 4284.903   Definitions.

These are the definitions for terms used in this subpart. Additional defined terms used in this subpart may be found in the applicable laws and regulations cited in § 4284.908, in particular 2 CFR part 200. If a term is defined differently in an applicable regulation and in this subpart, such term shall have the meaning as found in this subpart.


*Agency* means the Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA or the Department), or a successor agency.


*Agricultural Commodity* means an unprocessed product of Farms, Ranches, nurseries, and forests and natural and man-made bodies of water, that the Agricultural Producer has cultivated, raised, or harvested with legal access rights. Agricultural Commodities include plant and animal products and their by-products, such as crops, forestry products, hydroponics, nursery stock, aquaculture, meat, on-Farm generated manure, and fish and seafood products. Agricultural Commodities do not include animals raised or sold as pets, such as cats, dogs, and ferrets.


*Agricultural Food Product* refers to raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverages, or ingredients intended for human consumption.


*Agricultural Producer, Independent Producer or Producer* means a for-profit agricultural business, or entity that is 100 percent owned and controlled by an individual, entity or Family Farm that produces an Agricultural Commodity through participation in the day-to-day labor, management, and field operations; or that has the legal right to harvest an Agricultural Commodity that is the subject of the VAPG Project.


*Agricultural Producer Group* means a non-profit membership organization that represents Agricultural Producers and whose mission includes working on behalf of Agricultural Producers and more than 50 percent of whose membership and board of directors is comprised of Agricultural Producers.


*Applicant* means the legal entity and/or owner(s) of the legal entity (regardless of ownership percentage), submitting an application to participate in the competition for program funding.


*Beginning Farmer or Rancher* means an Agricultural Producer (other than a Harvester) that has operated a Farm or Ranch for no more than 10 years or an eligible Applicant entity that has an ownership or membership of more than 50 percent farmers or ranchers each of whom have operated a Farm or Ranch for no more than 10 years.


*Business Plan* means a formal statement of a set of business goals, the reasons why they are believed attainable, and the plan for reaching those goals, including Pro Forma Financial Statements appropriate to the term and scope of the Project and sufficient to evidence the viability of the Project. It may also contain background information about the organization or team attempting to reach those goals.


*Change in Physical State* means an irreversible processing activity that alters the Agricultural Commodity into a substantially different, marketable Value-Added Agricultural Product. This processing activity must be something other than a post-harvest process that primarily acts to preserve the commodity for later sale.


*Emerging Market* means a developing, geographic or demographic market that has been supplied by the Applicant or the Applicant's product for two (2) years or less.


*Equipment* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Family Farm* means a Farm or Ranch whose owner(s) are primarily responsible for daily physical labor, business and/or strategic management; whose hired help only supplements family labor; and whose owners are related by blood or marriage or are Immediate Family.


*Farm or Ranch* means any place from which $1,000 or more of Agricultural Commodities were raised and sold or would have been raised and sold during the previous year, but for an event beyond the control of the farmer or rancher.


*Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy* means renewable energy generated by use of an Agricultural Commodity on a Farm or Ranch, owned or leased by an Agricultural Producer, which provides the Agricultural Producer with an expanded customer base and increased revenues.


*Farmer or Rancher Cooperative* means a business owned and controlled by Agricultural Producers that is incorporated, or otherwise identified by the State in which it operates, as a cooperatively operated business. The Agricultural Producers, on whose behalf the value-added work will be done, must be identified by name or class.


*Feasibility Study* means a comprehensive analysis of the economic, market, technical, financial, and management capabilities of a Project or business in terms of the Project's expectation for success.


*Fiscal Year* means the Federal Government's fiscal year, October 1 of a given year through September 30 of the succeeding year.


*Food Safety* refers to conditions and practices that preserve the quality of food to prevent contamination and food-borne illnesses.


*Harvester* means an Agricultural Producer that can document legal rights to access and harvest the Agricultural Commodity that will be used for the Value-Added Agricultural Product. This does not include harvesting rights for cultivated commodities. Individuals and entities that merely glean, gather, or collect residual commodities that result from an initial harvesting or production of a primary Agricultural Commodity are not considered Harvesters and are not eligible for this program.


*Independent Producer* has the same meaning as Agricultural Producer in this section.


*Immediate Family* means individuals who are closely related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or live within the same household, such as a spouse, domestic partner, parent, child, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, grandparent, grandchild, niece, or nephew.


*Key Personnel* means the owners, employees, new hires, consultants, and/or contractors who will be overseeing and/or completing the tasks in the work plan.


*Letter of Conditions* means the letter that the Agency issues to an entity whose application is selected for funding. The letter outlines all of the conditions of the award that must be met before the award can be approved. Other agencies may call this letter an Award Letter or Award Notice.


*Local or Regional Supply Network* means an interconnected group of individuals and/or entities through which agricultural based products move from production through consumption in a local or regional area of a State.


*Locally-Produced Agricultural Food Product* refers to raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverages, or ingredients intended for human consumption that are raised, produced, and distributed in:


(1) The locality or region in which the final product is marketed, so that the total distance that the product is transported is less than 400 miles from the origin of the product; or


(2) The State in which the product is produced.


*Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture* refers to a venture greater than 50 percent of the ownership and control of which is held by—


(1) One or more Producers (Agricultural Producers); or


(2) One or more entities, 100 percent of the ownership and control of which is held by one or more Producers (Agricultural Producers). The term `entity' means—


(i) A partnership;


(ii) A limited liability corporation;


(iii) A limited liability partnership; or


(iv) A corporation.


*Market Expansion* means a Project in which the Agricultural Producer Applicant seeks to expand the market either geographically or demographically for an existing Value-Added Agricultural Product produced and marketed by the Applicant for at least two (2) years at the time of the application through sales to demonstrably new markets or new customers in existing markets.


*Marketing Plan* means a plan for the Project that identifies a market window, potential buyers, a description of the distribution system and possible promotional campaigns.


*Matching Funds* means a cost-sharing contribution to the Project that is at least equal to the grant amount. Combined grant and Matching Funds equal 100 percent of the Project Costs.


*Medium-Sized Farm or Ranch* means a Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm that has averaged $500,001 to $1,000,000 in annual gross sales of Agricultural Commodities in the previous three (3) years.


*Mid-Tier Value Chain* refers to local and regional supply networks that link Agricultural Producers with businesses, cooperatives, or consumers that market Value-Added Agricultural Products in a manner that:


(1) Targets and strengthens the profitability and competitiveness of Small- and Medium-Sized Farms or Ranches that are structured as a Family Farm; and


(2) Obtains agreement from an eligible Agricultural Producer Group, Farmer or Rancher Cooperative, or Majority-Controlled Producer-Based Business Venture that is engaged in the value chain on a marketing strategy.


*Period of Performance* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Physical Segregation* means separating an Agricultural Commodity or product on the same Farm from other varieties of the same commodity or product on the same Farm during production and harvesting, with assurance of continued separation from similar commodities during processing and marketing in a manner that results in the enhancement of the value of the separated commodity or product.


*Planning Grant* means a grant to facilitate the development of a defined program of economic planning activities to determine the viability of a potential value-added Project, and specifically for the purpose of paying for conducting and developing a Feasibility Study, Business Plan, and/or Marketing Plan associated with the processing and/or marketing of a Value-Added Agricultural Product.


*Produced in a Manner that Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity* refers to the use of a recognizably coherent set of agricultural production practices in the growing or raising of the Agricultural Commodity, such that a differentiated market identity is created for the resulting product.


*Producer* has the same meaning as Agricultural Producer in this section.


*Pro forma Financial Statement* means a financial statement that projects the future financial position of a company. The statement is part of the Business Plan and includes an explanation of all assumptions, such as input prices, finished product prices, and other economic factors used to generate the financial statements. The statement must include projections for a minimum of three (3) years in the form of cash flow statements, income statements, and balance sheets.


*Program Income* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Project* means all of the eligible activities to be funded by the grant and Matching Funds.


*Project Cost* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Qualified Consultant* means a third-party, without a conflict of interest, possessing the knowledge, expertise, and experience to perform the specific task required in an efficient, effective, and authoritative manner.


*Recipient* has the meaning located at 2 CFR 200.1.


*Rural Development (RD)* means a mission area within USDA, which includes the Rural Housing Service, Rural Utilities Service, and RBCS.


*Small-Sized Farm or Ranch* means a Farm or Ranch that is structured as a Family Farm that has averaged $500,000 or less in annual gross sales of Agricultural Commodities in the previous three (3) years.


*Socially-Disadvantaged Farmer or Rancher* means a farmer or rancher who is a member of a Socially-Disadvantaged Group.


*Socially-Disadvantaged Group* means a group whose members have been subjected to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.


*State* means any of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.


*Steering Committee* means an unincorporated group comprised wholly of specifically identified Agricultural Producers in the process of organizing one of the program eligible Applicant types.


*TTB Permit* means a permit issued by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB), U.S. Department of the Treasury, granting approval to operate a TTB-regulated alcohol business.


*Value-Added Agricultural Product* means any Agricultural Commodity produced in a State that:


(1) Meets one of the following methodologies:


(i) Has undergone a Change in Physical State;


(ii) Is Produced in a Manner that Enhances the Value of the Agricultural Commodity;


(iii) Is Physically Segregated in a manner that results in the enhancement of the value of the Agricultural Commodity;


(iv) Is a source of Farm- or Ranch-Based Renewable Energy, including E-85 fuel; or


(v) Is aggregated and marketed as a Locally Produced Agricultural Food Product; and


(2) As a result of the Change in Physical State or the manner in which the Agricultural Commodity was produced, marketed, or segregated:


(i) The customer base for the Agricultural Commodity is expanded; and


(ii) A greater portion of the revenue derived from the marketing, processing, or Physical Segregation of the Agricultural Commodity is available to the Producer of the commodity.


*Veteran Farmer or Rancher* means a farmer or rancher who has served in the Armed Forces, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 2279, and who either has not operated a Farm or Ranch or has operated a Farm or Ranch for not more than 10 years; or is a Veteran who first obtained status as a veteran during the most recent 10-year period.


*Working Capital Grant* means a grant to provide funds to operate a value-added Project, specifically to pay the eligible Project expenses related to the processing and/or marketing of the Value-Added Agricultural Product.






