# § 1520.3   Terms used in this part.

In addition to the terms in § 1500.3 of this chapter, the following terms apply in this part:


*Administrator* means the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security referred to in 49 U.S.C. 114(b), or his or her designee.


*Coast Guard* means the United States Coast Guard.


*Covered person* means any organization, entity, individual, or other person described in § 1520.7. In the case of an individual, *covered person* includes any individual applying for employment in a position that would be a covered person, or in training for such a position, regardless of whether that individual is receiving a wage, salary, or other form of payment. *Covered person* includes a person applying for certification or other form of approval that, if granted, would make the person a covered person described in § 1520.7.


*Federal Flight Deck Officer* means a pilot participating in the Federal Flight Deck Officer Program under 49 U.S.C. 44921 and implementing regulations.


*Maritime facility* means any facility as defined in 33 CFR part 101.


*Rail secure area* means “rail secure area” as defined in 49 CFR 1580.3.


*Railroad carrier* means “railroad carrier” as defined in 49 U.S.C. 20102(2).


*Security contingency plan* means a plan detailing response procedures to address a transportation security incident, threat assessment, or specific threat against transportation, including details of preparation, response, mitigation, recovery, and reconstitution procedures, continuity of government, continuity of transportation operations, and crisis management.


*Security screening* means evaluating a person or property to determine whether either poses a threat to security.


*SSI* means sensitive security information, as described in § 1520.5.


*Threat image projection system* means an evaluation tool that involves periodic presentation of fictional threat images to operators and is used in connection with x-ray or explosives detection systems equipment.


*TSA* means the Transportation Security Administration.



---

[N] [69 FR 28082, May 18, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 41599, July 19, 2005; 73 FR 72172, Nov. 26, 2008; 74 FR 47695, Sept. 16, 2009; 85 FR 16499, Mar. 23, 2020]




