# § 96.306   Standard requirements.

(a) *Permit requirements.* (1) The CAIR designated representative of each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit required to have a title V operating permit at the source shall:


(i) Submit to the permitting authority a complete CAIR permit application under § 96.322 in accordance with the deadlines specified in § 96.321; and


(ii) Submit in a timely manner any supplemental information that the permitting authority determines is necessary in order to review a CAIR permit application and issue or deny a CAIR permit.


(2) The owners and operators of each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit required to have a title V operating permit at the source shall have a CAIR permit issued by the permitting authority under subpart CCCC of this part for the source and operate the source and the unit in compliance with such CAIR permit.


(3) Except as provided in subpart IIII of this part, the owners and operators of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source that is not otherwise required to have a title V operating permit and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit that is not otherwise required to have a title V operating permit are not required to submit a CAIR permit application, and to have a CAIR permit, under subpart CCCC of this part for such CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and such CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit.


(b) *Monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements.* (1) The owners and operators, and the CAIR designated representative, of each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source shall comply with the monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of subpart HHHH of this part.


(2) The emissions measurements recorded and reported in accordance with subpart HHHH of this part shall be used to determine compliance by each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source with the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season emissions limitation under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Nitrogen oxides ozone season emission requirements.* (1) As of the allowance transfer deadline for a control period, the owners and operators of each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source shall hold, in the source's compliance account, CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowances available for compliance deductions for the control period under § 96.354(a) in an amount not less than the tons of total nitrogen oxides emissions for the control period from all CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season units at the source, as determined in accordance with subpart HHHH of this part.


(2) A CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the control period starting on the later of May 1, 2009 or the deadline for meeting the unit's monitor certification requirements under § 96.370(b)(1), (2), (3), or (7) and for each control period thereafter.


(3) A CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowance shall not be deducted, for compliance with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a calendar year before the year for which the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowance was allocated.


(4) CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred into or among CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Allowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts FFFF, GGGG, and IIII of this part.


(5) A CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowance is a limited authorization to emit one ton of nitrogen oxides in accordance with the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program. No provision of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program, the CAIR permit application, the CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 96.305 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the State or the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.


(6) A CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowance does not constitute a property right.


(7) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart FFFF, GGGG, or IIII of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowance to or from a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source's compliance account is incorporated automatically in any CAIR permit of the source.


(d) *Excess emissions requirements.* If a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source emits nitrogen oxides during any control period in excess of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season emissions limitation, then:


(1) The owners and operators of the source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source shall surrender the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season allowances required for deduction under § 96.354(d)(1) and pay any fine, penalty, or assessment or comply with any other remedy imposed, for the same violations, under the Clean Air Act or applicable State law; and


(2) Each ton of such excess emissions and each day of such control period shall constitute a separate violation of this subpart, the Clean Air Act, and applicable State law.


(e) *Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.* (1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of 5 years, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator.


(i) The certificate of representation under § 96.313 for the CAIR designated representative for the source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such documents are superseded because of the submission of a new certificate of representation under § 96.313 changing the CAIR designated representative.


(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with subpart HHHH of this part, provided that to the extent that subpart HHHH of this part provides for a 3-year period for recordkeeping, the 3-year period shall apply.


(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program.


(iv) Copies of all documents used to complete a CAIR permit application and any other submission under the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program.


(2) The CAIR designated representative of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit at the source shall submit the reports required under the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program, including those under subpart HHHH of this part.


(f) *Liability.* (1) Each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source and each CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit shall meet the requirements of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program.


(2) Any provision of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program that applies to a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source or the CAIR designated representative of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source shall also apply to the owners and operators of such source and of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season units at the source.


(3) Any provision of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program that applies to a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit or the CAIR designated representative of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit shall also apply to the owners and operators of such unit.


(g) *Effect on other authorities.* No provision of the CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season Trading Program, a CAIR permit application, a CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 96.305 shall be construed as exempting or excluding the owners and operators, and the CAIR designated representative, of a CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season source or CAIR NO_X_ Ozone Season unit from compliance with any other provision of the applicable, approved State implementation plan, a federally enforceable permit, or the Clean Air Act.



---

[N] [70 FR 25382, May 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 25393, Apr. 28, 2006]




