# § 1.411(a)-2   Effective dates.

(a) *Plan not in existence on January 1, 1974.* Under section 1017(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, in the case of a plan which was not in existence on January 1, 1974, section 411 and the regulations thereunder apply for plan years beginning after September 2, 1974. See paragraph (c) of this section for time plan is considered in existence. 


(b) *Plans in existence on January 1, 1974.* Under section 1017(b) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, in the case of a plan which was in existence on January 1, 1974, section 411 and the regulations thereunder apply for plan years beginning after December 31, 1975. See paragraph (c) of this section for time plan is considered to be in existence. 


(c) *Time of plan existence*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of this section, a plan is considered to be in existence on a particular day if— 


(i) The plan on or before that day was reduced to writing and adopted by the employer (including, in the case of a corporate employer, formal approval by the employer's board of directors and, if required, shareholders), even though no amounts had been contributed under the plan as of such day, and 


(ii) The plan was not terminated on or before that day.


(2) *Collectively-bargained plan.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c) (1) of this section, a plan described in section 413 (a), relating to a plan maintained pursuant to a collective-bargaining agreement, is considered to be in existence on a particular day if—


(i) On or before that day there is a legally enforceable agreement to establish such a plan signed by the employer, and


(ii) The employer contributions to be made to the plan are set forth in the agreement.


(3) *Special rule.* If a plan is considered to be in existence under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, any other plan with which such existing plan is merged or consolidated shall also be considered to be in existence on such date.


(d) *Existing plans under collective-bargaining agreements.* For a special effective date rule for certain plans maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, see section 1017(c)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 932).


(e) *Certain existing plans may elect new provisions.* The plan administrator may elect to have the provisions of the Code relating to participation, vesting, funding, and form of benefit apply to a selected plan year. See § 1.410(a)-2(d) for rules relating to such an election. 


(f) *Application of rules.* The requirements of section 411 do not apply to employees who separate from service with the employer prior to the first plan year to which such requirements apply and who never return to service with the employer in a plan year to which section 411 applies.



---

[N] [T.D. 7501, 42 FR 42325, Aug. 23, 1977]




