# § 721.11271   Ethanone, 1-[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as ethanone, 1-[4-(4-chlorophenoxy)-2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]- (PMN P-17-329, CAS No. 1417782-28-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iv), (a)(3) through (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(4) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Respiratory complications, internal organ effects, reproductive effects; sensitization. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(4), notice to users: Do not release to water at concentrations that exceed 7 parts per billion. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=7.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46139, Aug. 18, 2021]




