# § 493.1834   Civil money penalty.

(a) *Statutory basis.* Sections 1846 of the Act and 353(h)(2)(B) of the PHS Act authorize the Secretary to impose civil money penalties on laboratories. Section 1846(b)(3) of the Act specifically provides that incrementally more severe fines may be imposed for repeated or uncorrected deficiencies.


(b) *Scope.* This section sets forth the procedures that CMS follows to impose a civil money penalty in lieu of, or in addition to, suspending, limiting, or revoking the certificate of compliance, registration certificate, certificate of accreditation, or certificate for PPM procedures of a laboratory that is found to have condition level deficiencies. 


(c) *Basis for imposing a civil money penalty.* CMS may impose a civil money penalty against any laboratory determined to have condition level deficiencies regardless of whether those deficiencies pose immediate jeopardy.


(d) *Amount of penalty*—(1) *Factors considered.* In determining the amount of the penalty, CMS takes into account the following factors:


(i) The nature, scope, severity, and duration of the noncompliance.


(ii) Whether the same condition level deficiencies have been identified during three consecutive inspections.


(iii) The laboratory's overall compliance history including but not limited to any period of noncompliance that occurred between certifications of compliance.


(iv) The laboratory's intent or reason for noncompliance.


(v) The accuracy and extent of laboratory records and their availability to CMS, the State survey agency, or other CMS agent.


(2) *Range of penalty amount.* (i) For a condition level deficiency that poses immediate jeopardy, the range is $3,050-$10,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per day of noncompliance or per violation.


(ii) For a condition level deficiency that does not pose immediate jeopardy, the range is $50-$3,000 as adjusted annually under 45 CFR part 102 per day of noncompliance or per violation.


(iii) For a condition level deficiency under §§ 493.41 or 493.1100(a), the penalty amount is $1,000 for the first day of noncompliance and $500 for each additional day of noncompliance.


(3) *Decreased penalty amounts.* If the immediate jeopardy is removed, but the deficiency continues, CMS shifts the penalty amount to the lower range.


(4) *Increased penalty amounts.* CMS may, before the hearing, propose to increase the penalty amount for a laboratory that has deficiencies which, after imposition of a lower level penalty amount, become sufficiently serious to pose immediate jeopardy.


(e) *Procedures for imposition of civil money penalty*—(1) *Notice of intent.* (i) CMS sends the laboratory written notice, of CMS's intent to impose a civil money penalty.


(ii) The notice includes the following information:


(A) The statutory basis for the penalty.


(B) The proposed daily or per violation amount of the penalty.


(C) The factors (as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) that CMS considered.


(D) The opportunity for responding to the notice in accordance with § 493.1810(c).


(E) A specific statement regarding the laboratory's appeal rights.


(2) *Appeal rights.* (i) The laboratory has 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice of intent to impose a civil money penalty to request a hearing in accordance with § 493.1844(g).


(ii) If the laboratory requests a hearing, all other pertinent provisions of § 493.1844 apply.


(iii) If the laboratory does not request a hearing, CMS may reduce the proposed penalty amount by 35 percent.


(f) *Accrual and duration of penalty*—(1) *Accrual of penalty.* The civil money penalty begins accruing as follows:


(i) 5 days after notice of intent if there is immediate jeopardy.


(ii) 15 days after notice of intent if there is not immediate jeopardy.


(2) *Duration of penalty.* The civil money penalty continues to accrue until the earliest of the following occurs:


(i) The laboratory's compliance with condition level requirements is verified on the basis of the evidence presented by the laboratory in its credible allegation of compliance or at the time or revisit.


(ii) Based on credible evidence presented by the laboratory at the time of revisit, CMS determines that compliance was achieved before the revisit. (In this situation, the money penalty stops accruing as of the date of compliance.)


(iii) CMS suspends, limits, or revokes the laboratory's certificate of compliance, registration certificate, certificate of accreditation, or certificate for PPM procedures. 


(g) *Computation and notice of total penalty amount*—(1) *Computation.* CMS computes the total penalty amount after the laboratory's compliance is verified or CMS suspends, limits, or revokes the laboratory's CLIA certificate but in no event before—


(i) The 60 day period for requesting a hearing has expired without a request or the laboratory has explicitly waived its right to a hearing; or 


(ii) Following a hearing requested by the laboratory, the ALJ issues a decision that upholds imposition of the penalty.


(2) *Notice of penalty amount and due date of penalty.* The notice includes the following information:


(i) Daily or per violation penalty amount.


(ii) Number of days or violations for which the penalty is imposed.


(iii) Total penalty amount.


(iv) Due date for payment of the penalty.


(h) *Due date for payment of penalty.* (1) Payment of a civil money penalty is due 15 days from the date of the notice specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(2) CMS may approve a plan for a laboratory to pay a civil money penalty, plus interest, over a period of up to one year from the original due date.


(i) *Collection and settlement*—(1) *Collection of penalty amounts.* (i) The determined penalty amount may be deducted from any sums then or later owing by the United States to the laboratory subject to the penalty.


(ii) Interest accrues on the unpaid balance of the penalty, beginning on the due date. Interest is computed at the rate specified in § 405.378(d) of this chapter.


(2) *Settlement.* CMS has authority to settle any case at any time before the ALJ issues a hearing decision.



---

[N] [57 FR 7237, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 60 FR 20051, Apr. 24, 1995; 61 FR 63749, Dec. 2, 1996; 81 FR 61564, Sept. 6, 2016; 85 FR 54874, Sept. 2, 2020]




