# § 40.6302(c)-2   Special rules for September.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Separate deposits required for the second semimonthly period.* In the case of deposits of taxes not deposited under the alternative method (regular method taxes) for the second semimonthly period in September, separate deposits are required for the period September 16th through 26th and for the period September 27th through 30th.


(2) *Amount of deposit*—(i) *In general.* The deposits of regular method taxes for the period September 16th through 26th and the period September 27th through 30th must be not less than 95 percent of the net tax liability for regular method taxes incurred during the respective periods. The net tax liability for regular method taxes incurred during these periods may be computed by—


(A) Determining the amount of net tax liability for regular method taxes reasonably expected to be incurred during the second semimonthly period in September;


(B) Treating 
11/15 of the amount determined under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section as the net tax liability for regular method taxes incurred during the period September 16th through 26th; and


(C) Treating the remainder of the amount determined under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section (adjusted to reflect the amount of net tax liability for regular method taxes actually incurred through the end of September) as the net tax liability for regular method taxes incurred during the period September 27th through 30th.


(ii) *Safe harbor rules.* The safe harbor rules in § 40.6302(c)-1(b)(2) do not apply for the third calendar quarter unless—


(A) The deposit of taxes for the period September 16th through 26th is not less than 
11/90 of the net tax liability for regular method taxes reported for the look-back quarter; and


(B) The total deposit of taxes for the second semimonthly period in September is not less than 
1/6 of the net tax liability for regular method taxes reported for the look-back quarter.


(3) *Time to deposit.* (i) The deposit required for the period beginning September 16th must be made by September 29th unless—


(A) September 29th is a Saturday, in which case the deposit must be made by September 28th; or


(B) September 29th is a Sunday, in which case the deposit must be made by September 30th.


(ii) The deposit required for the period ending September 30th must be made at the time prescribed in § 40.6302(c)-1(c).


(b) *Persons not required to use electronic funds transfer.* The rules of this section are applied with the following modifications in the case of a person not required to deposit taxes by electronic funds transfer.


(1) *Periods.* The deposit periods for the separate deposits required under paragraph (a) of this section are September 16th through 25th and September 26th through 30th.


(2) *Amount of deposit.* In computing the amount of deposit required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the applicable fraction is 
10/15. In computing the amount of deposit required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, the applicable fraction is 
10/90.


(3) *Time to deposit.* In the case of the deposit required under paragraph (a) of this section for the period beginning September 16th, the deposit must be made by September 28th unless—


(i) September 28th is a Saturday, in which case the deposit must be made by September 27th; or


(ii) September 28th is a Sunday, in which case the deposit must be made by September 29th.


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable with respect to deposits that relate to calendar quarters beginning on or after October 1, 2001, except that paragraph (b) of this section does not apply after December 31, 2010.



---

[N] [T.D. 8963, 66 FR 41777, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9507, 75 FR 75904, Dec. 7, 2010]




