# § 485.904   Condition of participation: Personnel qualifications.

(a) *Standard: General qualification requirements.* All professionals who furnish services directly, under an individual contract, or under arrangements with a CMHC, must be legally authorized (licensed, certified or registered) in accordance with applicable Federal, State and local laws, and must act only within the scope of their State licenses, certifications, or registrations. All personnel qualifications must be kept current at all times.


(b) *Standard: Personnel qualifications for certain disciplines.* The following qualifications must be met:


(1) *Administrator of a CMHC.* A CMHC employee who meets the education and experience requirements established by the CMHC's governing body for that position and who is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the CMHC.


(2) *Clinical psychologist.* An individual who meets the qualifications at § 410.71(d) of this chapter.


(3) *Clinical Social worker.* An individual who meets the qualifications at § 410.73 of this chapter.


(4) *Social worker.* An individual who—


(i) Has a baccalaureate degree in social work from an institution accredited by the Council on Social Work Education, or a baccalaureate degree in psychology or sociology, and is supervised by a clinical social worker, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and


(ii) Has 1 year of social work experience in a psychiatric healthcare setting.


(5) *Mental health counselor.* An individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.54 of this chapter.


(6) *Occupational therapist.* A person who meets the requirements for the definition of “occupational therapist” at § 484.4 of this chapter.


(7) *Physician.* An individual who meets the qualifications and conditions as defined in section 1861(r) of the Act, and provides the services at § 410.20 of this chapter, and has experience providing mental health services to clients.


(8) *Physician assistant.* An individual who meets the qualifications and conditions as defined in section 1861(s)(2)(K)(i) of the Act and provides the services, in accordance with State law, at § 410.74 of this chapter.


(9) *Advanced practice nurse.* An individual who meets the following qualifications:


(i) Is a nurse practitioner who meets the qualifications at § 410.75 of this chapter; or


(ii) Is a clinical nurse specialist who meets the qualifications at § 410.76 of this chapter.


(10) *Psychiatric registered nurse.* A registered nurse, who is a graduate of an approved school of professional nursing, is licensed as a registered nurse by the State in which he or she is practicing, and has at least 1 year of education and/or training in psychiatric nursing.


(11) *Psychiatrist.* An individual who specializes in assessing and treating persons having psychiatric disorders; is board certified, or is eligible to be board certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology, or has documented equivalent education, training or experience, and is fully licensed to practice medicine in the State in which he or she practices.


(12) *Marriage and family therapist.* An individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.53 of this chapter.



---

[N] [78 FR 64630, Oct. 29, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 61624, Nov. 5, 2021; 88 FR 36510, June 5, 2023; 88 FR 82183, Nov. 22, 2023]




