# ยง 72.2   Definitions.

Except as otherwise provided in this part, the definitions in 44 CFR part 59 are applicable to this part. For the purposes of this part, the products are defined as follows:


*CLOMA.* A CLOMA is FEMA's comment on a proposed structure or group of structures that would, upon construction, be located on existing natural ground above the base (1-percent-annual-chance) flood elevation on a portion of a legally defined parcel of land that is partially inundated by the base flood.


*CLOMR.* A CLOMR is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).


*CLOMR-F.* A CLOMR-F is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, result in a modification of the SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.


*LOMR.* A LOMR is FEMA's modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), or both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the SFHA. The LOMR officially revises the FIRM or FBFM, and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and, when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.


*LOMR-F.* A LOMR-F is FEMA's modification of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.


*PMR.* A PMR is FEMA's physical revision and republication of an effective FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report. PMRs are generally based on physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the SFHA.



---

[N] [62 FR 5737, Feb. 6, 1997]




