# § 250.220   What is the DWOP process?

(a) The DWOP process consists of providing sufficient information from a total system approach for BSEE to review:


(1) A deepwater development project,


(2) A subsea tieback development technology, or


(3) Any other project or system that uses new or unusual technology during any phase of the following operations: drilling, completion, workover, intervention, injection, production, pipeline, platform, decommissioning, or abandonment.


(b) The DWOP process does not replace but complements other submittals required by the regulations, such as BOEM EPs, DPPs, and DOCDs, or BSEE applications and/or permits (*e.g.,* APD, Application for Permit to Modify (APM), pipeline application, and platform application). BSEE will use the information in your DWOP process to determine whether the project will be developed in an acceptable manner, particularly with respect to operational safety and environmental protection involved with a deepwater development project, subsea tieback development technology, or new or unusual technology.


(c) The DWOP process consists of two phases:


(1) *The Conceptual Plans.* The Conceptual Plans outline certain equipment and process specifications, operational concepts, and basis of design that you plan to use for project development, and for applicable equipment design, installation, and operation. Sections 250.227 through 250.229 prescribe what each of the Conceptual Plans must contain. Each Conceptual Plan may be submitted separately or combined as applicable; and


(2) *The DWOP.* The DWOP identifies specific design, fabrication, installation and operational requirements for equipment, systems, and activities as applicable in §§ 250.236 through 250.242.


(d) You must submit to BSEE the applicable plan(s) covered under the DWOP process as appropriate (see § 250.225 for Conceptual Plan requirements and § 250.235 for DWOP requirements). Certain projects requiring New or Unusual Technology Conceptual Plans or New or Unusual Technology Barrier Equipment Conceptual Plans may not be required to have an associated Project Conceptual Plan or DWOP.






