# § 201.2   Terms defined.

When used in the regulations in this part the terms as defined in section 101 of the Act, unless modified in this section as provided in the Act, shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, as used in this part: 


(a) The *Act.* The term “Act” means the Federal Seed Act approved August 9, 1939 (53 Stat. 1275; 7 U.S.C. 1551-1611 as amended); 


(b) *Person.* The term “person” includes an individual partnership, corporation, company, society, association, receiver, trustee, or agent; 


(c) *Secretary.* The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead; 


(d) *Hearing Clerk.* The term “Hearing Clerk” means the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC; 


(e) *Respondent.* The term “respondent” means a person against whom a complaint is issued; 


(f) *Examiner.* The term “examiner” means an employee of the Department of Agriculture, designated by the Secretary to conduct hearings under the Act, and this part; 


(g) _Federal Register._ The term “_Federal Register_” means the publication provided by the Act of July 26, 1935 (49 Stat. 500), and acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof; 


(h) *Agricultural seeds.* The term “agricultural seeds” means the following kinds of grass, forage, and field crop seeds, that are used for seeding purposes in the United States: 


(i) *Vegetable seeds.* The term “vegetable seeds” means the seeds of the following kinds that are or may be grown in gardens or on truck farms and are or may be generally known and sold under the name of vegetable seeds:


(j) *Regulations.* The term “regulations” means the rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Agriculture and the joint rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture under the Act. 


(k) *Joint regulations.* The term “joint regulations” means the joint rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Agriculture. 


(l) *Complete record.* (1) The term “complete record” means information which relates to the origin, treatment (including but not limited to coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination, and purity (including variety) of each lot of agricultural seed transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce, or which relates to the treatment (including but not limited to coating, film coating, encrusting, or pelleting), germination, and variety of each lot of vegetable seed transported or delivered for transportation in interstate commerce. Such information includes seed samples and records of declarations, labels, purchases, sales, cleaning, bulking, chemical or biological treatment, handling, storage, analyses, tests, and examinations. 


(2) The complete record kept by each person for each treatment substance or lot of seed consists of the information pertaining to his own transactions and the information received from others pertaining to their transactions with respect to each treatment substance or lot of seed. 


(m) *Declaration.* The term “declaration” means a written statement of a grower, shipper, processor, dealer, or importer giving for any lot of seed the kind, variety, type, origin, or the use for which the seed is intended. 


(n) *Declaration of origin.* The term “declaration of origin” means a declaration of a grower or country shipper in the United States stating for each lot of agricultural seed (1) kind of seed, (2) lot number or other identification, (3) State where seed was grown and the county where grown if to be labeled showing the origin as a portion of a State, (4) quantity of seed, (5) date shipped or delivered, (6) to whom sold, shipped, or delivered, and (7) the signature and address of the grower or country shipper issuing the declaration. If the declaration is issued by a grower and the identity of the person delivering the seed is unknown to the receiver, the motor vehicle license number or other identification of the delivering agency should be entered on the declaration by the receiver. If a country shipper's declaration includes seed shipped or delivered to him by another country shipper, it shall give for each lot the other country shipper's lot number as included in the other country shipper's declaration of origin. 


(o) *Declaration of kind, variety, or type.* The term “declaration of kind, variety, or type” means a declaration of a grower stating for each lot of seed (1) the name of the kind, variety, or type stated in accordance with §§ 201.9 through 201.12, (2) lot number or other identification, (3) place where seed was grown, (4) quantity of seed, (5) date shipped or delivered, (6) to whom sold, shipped or delivered, and (7) the signature and address of the grower issuing the declaration. 


(p) *Mixture.* The term “mixture” means seeds consisting of more than one kind or variety, each present in excess of 5 percent by weight of the whole. A mixture of varieties of a single kind may be labeled as a blend.


(q) *Coated seed.* The term “coated seed” means any seed unit covered with a coating material.


(r) *Grower.* The term “grower” means any person who produces directly or through a growing contract, or is a seed-crop sharer in seed which is sold, offered for sale, transported, or offered for transportation. 


(s) *Country shipper.* The term “country shipper” means any person located in a producing area who purchases seed locally for shipment to seed dealers or to other country shippers. 


(t) *Dealer.* The term “dealer” means any person who cleans, processes, sells, offers for sale, transports, or delivers for transportation seeds in interstate commerce. 


(u) *Consumer.* The term “consumer” means any person who purchases or otherwise obtains seed for sowing but not for resale. 


(v) *Lot of seed.* The term “lot of seed” means a definite quantity of seed identified by a lot number, every portion or bag of which is uniform, within permitted tolerances, for the factors which appear in the labeling. 


(w) *Purity.* The term “purity” means the name or names of the kind, type, or variety and the percentage or percentages thereof; the percentage of other agricultural seed; the percentage of weed seeds, including noxious-weeds seeds; the percentage of inert matter; and the names of the noxious-weed seeds and the rate of occurrence of each. 


(x) *Inoculant.* The term “inoculant” means a product consisting of microorganisms applied to the seed for the purpose of enhancing the availability or uptake of plant nutrients through the root system. 


(y) *Hybrid.* The term “hybrid” applied to kinds or varieties of seed means the first generation seed of a cross produced by controlling the pollination and by combining (1) two or more inbred lines; (2) one inbred or a single cross with an open pollinated variety; or (3) two selected clones, seed lines, varieties, or species. “Controlling the pollination” means to use a method of hybridization which will produce pure seed which is at least 75 percent hybrid seed. Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names. 


(z) *Conditioning.* For the purpose of section 203 (b)(2)(C) of the Act the term “conditioning” means cleaning, scarifying, or blending to obtain uniform quality, and other operations which would change the purity or germination of the seed and therefore require retesting to determine the quality of the seed, but does not include operations such as packaging, labeling, blending together of uniform lots of the same kind or variety without cleaning, or the preparation of a mixture without cleaning, any of which would not require retesting to determine the quality of the seed. 


(aa) *Agricultural Marketing Service* means the Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture. 


(bb) *Breeder seed.* Breeder seed is a class of certified seed directly controlled by the originating or sponsoring plant breeding institution, or person, or designee thereof, and is the source for the production of seed of the other classes of certified seed. 


(cc) *Foundation seed.* Foundation seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder or Foundation seed and is produced and handled under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Foundation class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity. 


(dd) *Registered seed.* Registered seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder or Foundation seed and is produced and handled under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Registered class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity. 


(ee) *Certified seed.* Certified seed is a class of certified seed which is the progeny of Breeder, Foundation, or Registered seed, except as provided in § 201.70, and is produced and handled under procedures established by the certifying agency, in accordance with this part, for producing the Certified class of seed, for the purpose of maintaining genetic purity and identity. 


(ff) *Off-type.* The term “off-type” means a plant or seed which deviates in one or more characteristics from that which has been described in accordance with § 201.68(c) as being usual for the strain or variety. 


(gg) *Inbred line.* The term “inbred line” means a relatively true-breeding strain resulting from at least five successive generations of controlled self-fertilization or of backcrossing to a recurrent parent with selection, or its equivalent, for specific characteristics. 


(hh) *Single cross.* The term “single cross” means the first generation hybrid between two inbred lines. 


(ii) *Foundation single cross.* The term “foundation single cross” means a single cross used in the production of a double cross, a three-way, or a top cross. 


(jj) *Double cross.* The term “double cross” means the first generation hybrid between two single crosses. 


(kk) *Top cross.* The term “top cross” means the first generation hybrid of a cross between an inbred line and an open-pollinated variety or the first-generation hybrid between a single cross and an open-pollinated variety. 


(ll) *Three-way cross.* The term “three-way cross” means a first generation hybrid between a single cross and an inbred line. 


(mm) *Open-pollination.* The term “open-pollination” means pollination that occurs naturally as opposed to controlled pollination, such as by detasseling, cytoplasmic male sterility, self-incompatibility or similar processes. 


(nn) *Coating material.* The term “coating material” means any substance that changes the size, shape, or weight of the original seed. Ingredients such as rhizobia, dyes, polymers, biologicals, and pesticides are not coating material for purposes of this part.


(oo) *Brand.* The term “brand” means a name, term, sign, symbol, or design, or a combination of them that identifies the seed of one seller or group of sellers and differentiates that seed from the seed of other sellers.



---

[N] [5 FR 28, Jan. 4, 1940]


