# § 410.27   Therapeutic outpatient hospital or CAH services and supplies incident to a physician's or nonphysician practitioner's service: Conditions.

(a) Medicare Part B pays for therapeutic hospital or CAH services and supplies furnished incident to a physician's or nonphysician practitioner's service, which are defined as all services and supplies furnished to hospital or CAH outpatients that are not diagnostic services and that aid the physician or nonphysician practitioner in the treatment of the patient, including drugs and biologicals which are not usually self-administered, if—


(1) They are furnished—


(i) By or under arrangements made by the participating hospital or CAH, except in the case of a SNF resident as provided in § 411.15(p) of this subchapter;


(ii) As an integral although incidental part of a physician's or nonphysician practitioner's services;


(iii) In the hospital or CAH or in a department of the hospital or CAH, as defined in § 413.65 of this subchapter, except for mental health services furnished to beneficiaries in their homes through the use of communication technology;




(iv) Under the general supervision (or other level of supervision as specified by CMS for the particular service) of a physician or a nonphysician practitioner as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, subject to the following requirements:


(A) For services furnished in the hospital or CAH, or in an outpatient department of the hospital or CAH, both on and off-campus, as defined in § 413.65 of this subchapter, or through the use of communication technology for mental health services, general supervision means the procedure is furnished under the physician's or nonphysician practitioner's overall direction and control, but the physician's or nonphysician practitioner's presence is not required during the performance of the procedure.






(B) Certain therapeutic services and supplies may be assigned either direct supervision or personal supervision.


(*1*) For purposes of this section, direct supervision means that the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be immediately available to furnish assistance and direction throughout the performance of the procedure. It does not mean that the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be present in the room when the procedure is performed. For pulmonary rehabilitation, cardiac rehabilitation, and intensive cardiac rehabilitation services, direct supervision must be furnished as specified in §§ 410.47 and 410.49, respectively. Through December 31, 2025, the presence of the physician or nonphysician practitioner for the purpose of the supervision of pulmonary rehabilitation, cardiac rehabilitation, and intensive cardiac rehabilitation services includes virtual presence through audio/video real-time communications technology (excluding audio-only); and


(*2*) Personal supervision means the physician or nonphysician practitioner must be in attendance in the room during the performance of the procedure.






(C) Nonphysician practitioners may provide the required supervision of services that they may personally furnish in accordance with State law and all additional requirements, including those specified in §§ 410.71, 410.73, 410.74, 410.75, 410.76, and 410.77; and




(v) In accordance with applicable State law.


(2) In the case of partial hospitalization services or intensive outpatient services, also meet the conditions of paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) Drugs and biologicals are also subject to the limitations specified in § 410.129.


(c) Rules on emergency services furnished to outpatients by nonparticipating hospitals are specified in subpart G of Part 424 of this chapter.


(d) Rules on emergency services furnished to outpatients in a foreign country are specified in subpart H of Part 424 of this chapter.


(e) Medicare Part B pays for partial hospitalization services and intensive outpatient services if they are—


(1) Prescribed by a physician who certifies and recertifies the need for the services in accordance with subpart B of part 424 of this chapter; and


(2) Furnished under a plan of treatment as required under subpart B of part 424 of this chapter.


(f) Services furnished by an entity other than the hospital are subject to the limitations specified in § 410.42(a).


(g) For purposes of this section, *nonphysician practitioner* means a clinical psychologist, licensed clinical social worker, marriage and family therapist, mental health counselor, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or certified nurse-midwife.



---

[N] [76 FR 74580, Nov. 30, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 75196, Dec. 10, 2013; 84 FR 61490, Nov. 12, 2019; 85 FR 8476, Feb. 14, 2020; 85 FR 19285, Apr. 6, 2020; 85 FR 86299, Dec. 29, 2020; 87 FR 72284, Nov. 23, 2022; 88 FR 82177, Nov. 22, 2023; 89 FR 94587, Nov. 27, 2024]




