# ยง 1710.602   Fund advance period.

(a) The fund advance period begins on the date of the loan note and will last no longer than five years, after September 30 of the fifth year after the fiscal year of obligation. The fiscal year of obligation is identified in loan documentation associated with each loan. The Administrator may extend the fund advance period on any loan if the borrower meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. However, under no circumstances shall RUS ever make or approve an advance, regardless of the last day for an advance on the loan note or any extension by the Administrator, later than September 30 of the fifth year after the fiscal year of obligation if such date would result in the RUS obligating or permitting advance of funds contrary to the Anti-Deficiency Act.


(b) The Administrator may agree to an extension of the fund advance period for loans if the borrower demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the loan funds continue to be needed for approved loan purposes (*e.g.,* facilities included in a RUS approved construction work plan). Policies for extension of the fund advance period following certain mergers, consolidations, and transfers of systems substantially in their entirety are set forth in 7 CFR 1717.156.


(1) To apply for an extension, the borrower must make a request to RUS prior to the last date for advance as noted in the borrower's loan documents and provide, the following:


(i) A certified copy of a board resolution requesting an extension of the Government's obligation to advance loan funds;


(ii) Evidence that the unadvanced loan funds continue to be needed for approved loan purposes; and


(iii) Notice of the estimated date for completion of construction.


(2) If the Administrator approves a request for an extension, RUS will notify the borrower in writing of the extension and the terms and conditions thereof. An extension will be effective only if it is requested in writing prior to the last date for advance as provided in the borrower's loan documents.


(3) Any request received after the last date for advance shall be rejected.


(c) RUS will rescind the balance of any loan funds not advanced to a borrower as of the final date approved for advancing funds.






