# ยง 305.3   Selection standards.

(a) *General.* To qualify for selection for overseas service as a Volunteer, an Applicant must demonstrate that he or she is suitable, possessing the requisite personal and professional attributes required for Peace Corps service generally, and for the particular Volunteer assignment for which he or she is considered. The Peace Corps assesses each Applicant's personal, professional, educational, and legal qualifications in order to select those Applicants most likely to be successful in a Peace Corps assignment, serving under conditions of hardship if necessary to achieve the goals of the Peace Corps. Meeting these qualifications does not in and of itself entitle any individual to serve in the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps endeavors to select the best qualified individuals from among all eligible Applicants.


(b) *Personal attributes.* Applicants must adequately demonstrate the following personal attributes to Peace Corps:


(1) *Motivation.* A sincere desire to carry out the goals of Peace Corps service, and a commitment to serve a full term as a Volunteer.


(2) *Productive competence.* The intelligence and professional experience or educational background to meet the needs of the individual's assignment.


(3) *Emotional maturity and adaptability.* The maturity, flexibility, cultural sensitivity, and self-sufficiency to adapt successfully to life in another culture, and to interact and communicate with other people regardless of cultural, social, and economic differences.


(4) *Skills.* In addition to any educational, professional or other qualifications and prerequisites that an individual must possess in order to be selected for a given assignment, a Trainee must demonstrate competence in the following areas by the end of pre-service training:


(i) *Language.* The ability to communicate effectively in the appropriate language or languages of the country of service with the fluency required to meet the needs of the overseas assignment.


(ii) *Technical competence.* Proficiency in the technical skills needed to carry out the Trainee's assignment as a Volunteer.


(iii) *Knowledge.* Adequate knowledge of the culture and history of the country of assignment to ensure a successful adjustment to, and acceptance by, the host country society, as well as an appropriate understanding of the history and government of the United States which qualifies the individual to represent the United States abroad.


(c) *Failure to meet standards.* Failure to meet initial selection standards, failure to attain any of the selection standards by the completion of training, or failure to maintain these standards during service, may be grounds for de-selection and disqualification from Peace Corps service.




