# § 187.7   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Approved numbering system* means a numbering system approved by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security under 46 U.S.C. Chapter 123.


*Barge* means a vessel that is not self-propelled or fitted for propulsion by sail, paddle, oar, or similar device.


*Builder's certificate* means a certificate of the facts of build of a vessel described in 46 CFR 67.99.


*Buyer* means a person who buys or contracts to buy a vessel.


*Cancel,* with respect to a certificate of title, means to make the certificate ineffective.


*Certificate of documentation* means Coast Guard Form CG-1270.


*Certificate of origin* means a record created by a manufacturer or importer as the manufacturer's or importer's proof of identity of a vessel, and includes a manufacturer's certificate or statement of origin and an importer's certificate or statement of origin, but excludes a builder's certificate.


*Certificate of ownership* means Coast Guard Form CG-1330.


*Certificate of title* means a record, created by the office or by a governmental agency of another State under the law of that State, which is designated as a certificate of title by the office or agency and is evidence of ownership of a vessel.


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard or an authorized representative of the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard.


*Dealer* means a person, including a manufacturer, in the business of selling vessels.


*Documented vessel* means a vessel covered by a certificate of documentation issued pursuant to 46 U.S.C. Section 12105, and excludes a foreign-documented vessel.


*Electronic* means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.


*Electronic certificate of title* means a certificate of title consisting of information that is stored solely in an electronic medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.


*Foreign-documented vessel* means a vessel the ownership of which is recorded in a registry maintained by a country other than the United States, identifying each person having an ownership interest in a vessel, and includes a unique alphanumeric designation for the vessel.


*Good faith* means honesty in fact and the observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing.


*Hull damaged* means compromised with respect to the integrity of a vessel's hull by a collision, allision, lightning strike, fire, explosion, running aground, or similar occurrence, or the sinking of a vessel in a manner that creates a significant risk to the integrity of the vessel's hull.


*Hull identification number* or *HIN* means the alphanumeric designation assigned to a vessel under subpart C of 33 CFR part 181.


*Issuing authority* means either a State that has an approved numbering system or the Coast Guard in a State that does not have an approved numbering system.


*Lien creditor,* with respect to a vessel, means—


(1) A creditor that has acquired a lien on the vessel by attachment, levy, or the like;


(2) An assignee for benefit of creditors from the time of assignment;


(3) A trustee in bankruptcy from the date of the filing of the petition; or


(4) A receiver in equity from the time of appointment.


*Manufacturer* means any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or importing new vessels for the purpose of sale or trade.


*Office* means the State department or agency that creates certificates of title.


*Owner* means a person having legal title to a vessel.


*Owner of record* means the owner indicated in the files of the Office or, if the files indicate more than one owner, the one first indicated.


*Participating State* means a State certified by the Commandant as meeting the requirements of subpart C of this part.


*Person* means an individual or any form of legal or commercial entity.


*Purchase* means to take by any voluntary transaction that creates an interest in a vessel.


*Purchaser* means a person taking by purchase.


*Record* means information inscribed on a tangible medium or stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.


*Secured party,* with respect to a vessel, means a person—


(1) In whose favor a security interest is created or provided for under a security agreement, whether or not any obligation to be secured is outstanding;


(2) Who is a consignor under State law as prescribed by State law related to security interests in goods; or


(3) Who holds a security interest arising under State law related to security interests in goods.


*Secured party of record* means the secured party whose name is indicated as the name of the secured party in the files of the office or, if the files indicate more than one secured party, the one first indicated.


*Security interest* means an interest in a vessel that secures payment or performance of an obligation if the interest is created by contract or otherwise as prescribed by state law related to security interests in goods.


*Sign* means, with present intent to authenticate or adopt a record, to—


(1) Make or adopt a tangible symbol; or


(2) Attach to or logically associate with the record an electronic symbol, sound, or process.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.


*State of principal operation* means the State on whose waters a vessel is or will be used, operated, navigated, or employed more than on the waters of any other State during a calendar year.


*Title brand* means a designation of previous damage, use, or condition that must be indicated on a certificate of title.


*Titled vessel* means a vessel titled by a State.


*Titling authority* means a State whose vessel titling system has been certified by the Commandant under subpart D of this part.


*Transfer of ownership* means a voluntary or involuntary conveyance of an interest in a vessel.


*Vessel* means every description of watercraft used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, except—


(1) A seaplane;


(2) An amphibious vehicle for which a certificate of title is issued pursuant to a state's motor vehicle certificate of title act or a similar statute of another state;


(3) Watercraft that operate only on a permanently fixed, manufactured course and the movement of which is restricted to or guided by means of a mechanical device to which the watercraft is attached or by which the watercraft is controlled;


(4) A stationary floating structure that—


(i) Does not have and is not designed to have a mode of propulsion of its own;


(ii) Is dependent for utilities upon a continuous utility hookup to a source originating on shore; and


(iii) Has a permanent, continuous hookup to a shore side sewage system.


(5) Watercraft owned by the United States, a State, or a foreign government or a political subdivision of any of them; and


(6) Watercraft used solely as a lifeboat on another watercraft.


*Vessel Identification System* or *VIS* means a system for collecting information on vessels and vessel ownership as required by 46 U.S.C. 12501.


*Vessel number* means the alphanumeric designation for a vessel issued pursuant to 46 U.S.C. 12301.


*Written certificate of title* means a certificate of title consisting of information inscribed on a tangible medium.



---

[N] [87 FR 34190, June 6, 2022]




