# ยง 702.37   Evaluation requirements.

(a) *Considerations.* (1) EPA will use applicable EPA guidance when conducting risk evaluations, as appropriate and where it represents the best available science.


(2) EPA will document that the risk evaluation is consistent with the best available science and based on the weight of the scientific evidence. In determining best available science, EPA shall consider as applicable:


(i) The extent to which the scientific information, technical procedures, measures, methods, protocols, methodologies, or models employed to generate the information are reasonable for and consistent with the intended use of the information;


(ii) The extent to which the information is relevant for the Administrator's use in making a decision about a chemical substance or mixture;


(iii) The degree of clarity and completeness with which the data, assumptions, methods, quality assurance, and analyses employed to generate the information are documented;


(iv) The extent to which the variability and uncertainty in the information, or in the procedures, measures, methods, protocols, methodologies, or models, are evaluated and characterized; and


(v) The extent of independent verification or peer review of the information or of the procedures, measures, methods, protocols, methodologies or models.


(3) EPA will ensure that all supporting analyses and components of the risk evaluation are suitable for their intended purpose, and tailored to the problems and decision at hand, in order to inform the development of a technically sound determination as to whether a chemical substance presents an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment under the conditions of use, based on the weight of the scientific evidence.


(4) EPA will not exclude conditions of use from the scope of the risk evaluation, but a fit-for-purpose approach may result in varying types and levels of analysis and supporting information for certain conditions of use, consistent with paragraph (b) of this section. The extent to which EPA will refine its evaluations for one or more condition of use in any risk evaluation will vary as necessary to determine whether a chemical substance presents an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment.


(5) EPA will evaluate chemical substances that are metals or metal compounds in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 2605(b)(2)(E).


(b) *Information and information sources.* (1) EPA will base each risk evaluation on reasonably available information.


(2) EPA will apply systematic review methods to assess reasonably available information, as needed to carry out risk evaluations that meet the requirements in TSCA section 26(h) and (i), in a manner that is objective, unbiased, and transparent.


(3) EPA may determine that certain information gaps can be addressed through application of assumptions, uncertainty factors, models, and/or screening to conduct its analysis with respect to the chemical substance, consistent with 15 U.S.C. 2625. The approaches used will be determined by the quality of reasonably available information, the deadlines specified in TSCA section 6(b)(4)(G) for completing the risk evaluation, and the extent to which the information reduces uncertainty.


(4) EPA expects to use its authorities under the Act, and other information gathering authorities, when necessary to obtain the information needed to perform a risk evaluation for a chemical substance before initiating the risk evaluation for such substance. EPA will also use such authorities during the performance of a risk evaluation to obtain information as needed and on a case-by-case basis to ensure that EPA has adequate, reasonably available information to perform the evaluation. Where appropriate, to the extent practicable, and scientifically justified, EPA will require the development of information generated without the use of new testing on vertebrates.


(5) Among other sources of information, EPA will also consider information and advice provided by the Science Advisory Committee on Chemicals established pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 2625(o).






