# § 2885.11   What terms and conditions must I comply with?

(a) 

(a) *Duration.* All grants, except those issued for a term of 3 years or less, will expire on December 31 of the final year of the grant. The term of a grant may not exceed 30 years, with the initial partial year of the grant considered to be the first year of the term. The term of a TUP may not exceed 3 years. The BLM will consider the following factors in establishing a reasonable term:


(1) The cost of the pipeline and related facilities you plan to construct, operate, maintain, or terminate;


(2) The pipeline's or related facility's useful life;


(3) The public purpose served; and


(4) Any potentially conflicting land uses; and


(b) *Terms and conditions of use.* BLM may modify your proposed use or change the route or location of the facilities in your application. By accepting a grant or TUP, you agree to use the lands described in the grant or TUP for the purposes set forth in the grant or TUP. You also agree to comply with, and be bound by, the following terms and conditions. During construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of the project you must:


(1) To the extent practicable, comply with all existing and subsequently enacted, issued, or amended Federal laws and regulations, and state laws and regulations applicable to the authorized use;


(2) Rebuild and repair roads, fences, and established trails destroyed or damaged by constructing, operating, maintaining, or terminating the project;


(3) Build and maintain suitable crossings for existing roads and significant trails that intersect the project;


(4) Do everything reasonable to prevent and suppress fires on or in the immediate vicinity of the right-of-way or TUP area;


(5) Not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment during any phase of the project because of race, creed, color, sex, or national origin. You must also require subcontractors to not discriminate;


(6) Pay the rent and monitoring fees described in §§ 2885.19 and 2885.23 of this subpart;


(7) The BLM may require that you obtain, or certify that you have obtained, a performance and reclamation bond or other acceptable security to cover any losses, damages, or injury to human health, the environment, and property incurred in connection with your use and occupancy of the right-of-way or TUP area, including terminating the grant or TUP, and to secure all obligations imposed by the grant or TUP and applicable laws and regulations. Your bond must cover liability for damages or injuries resulting from releases or discharges of hazardous materials. We may require a bond, an increase or decrease in the value of an existing bond, or other acceptable security at any time during the term of the grant or TUP. This bond is in addition to any individual lease, statewide, or nationwide oil and gas bonds you may have. All other provisions in§ 2805.12(b) of this chapter regarding bond requirements for grants and leases issued under FLPMA also apply to grants or TUPs for oil and gas pipelines issued under this part;


(8) Assume full liability if third parties are injured or damages occur to property on or near the right-of-way or TUP area (*see* § 2886.13 of this part);


(9) Comply with project-specific terms, conditions, and stipulations, including requirements to:


(i) Restore, revegetate, and curtail erosion or any other rehabilitation measure BLM determines is necessary;


(ii) Ensure that activities in connection with the grant or TUP comply with air and water quality standards or related facility siting standards contained in applicable Federal or state law or regulations;


(iii) Control or prevent damage to scenic, aesthetic, cultural, and environmental values, including fish and wildlife habitat, and to public and private property and public health and safety;


(iv) Protect the interests of individuals living in the general area who rely on the area for subsistence uses as that term is used in Title VIII of ANILCA (16 U.S.C. 3111 *et seq.*); and


(v) Ensure that you construct, operate, maintain, and terminate the facilities on the lands in the right-of-way or TUP area in a manner consistent with the grant or TUP;


(10) Immediately notify all Federal, state, tribal, and local agencies of any release or discharge of hazardous material reportable to such entity under applicable law. You must also notify BLM at the same time, and send BLM a copy of any written notification you prepared;


(11) Not dispose of or store hazardous material on your right-of-way or TUP area, except as provided by the terms, conditions, and stipulation of your grant or TUP;


(12) Certify that your compliance with all requirements of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. 11001 *et seq.,* when you receive, assign, renew, amend, or terminate your grant or TUP;


(13) Control and remove any release or discharge of hazardous material on or near the right-of-way or TUP area arising in connection with your use and occupancy of the right-of-way or TUP area, whether or not the release or discharge is authorized under the grant or TUP. You must also remediate and restore lands and resources affected by the release or discharge to BLM's satisfaction and to the satisfaction of any other Federal, state, tribal, or local agency having jurisdiction over the land, resource, or hazardous material;


(14) Comply with all liability and indemnification provisions and stipulations in the grant or TUP;


(15) As BLM directs, provide diagrams or maps showing the location of any constructed facility;


(16) Construct, operate, and maintain the pipeline as a common carrier. This means that the pipeline owners and operators must accept, convey, transport, or purchase without discrimination all oil or gas delivered to the pipeline without regard to where the oil and gas was produced (*i.e.*, whether on Federal or non-federal lands). Where natural gas not subject to state regulatory or conservation laws governing its purchase by pipeline companies is offered for sale, each pipeline company must purchase, without discrimination, any such natural gas produced in the vicinity of the pipeline. Common carrier provisions of this paragraph do not apply to natural gas pipelines operated by a:


(i) Person subject to regulation under the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717 *et seq.*); or


(ii) Public utility subject to regulation by state or municipal agencies with the authority to set rates and charges for the sale of natural gas to consumers within the state or municipality.


(17) Within 30 calendar days after BLM requests it, file rate schedules and tariffs for oil and gas, or derivative products, transported by the pipeline as a common carrier with the agency BLM prescribes, and provide BLM proof that you made the required filing;


(18) With certain exceptions (listed in the statute), not export domestically produced crude oil by pipeline without Presidential approval (*see* 30 U.S.C. 185(u) and (s) and 50 U.S.C. App. 2401);


(19) Not exceed the right-of-way width that is specified in the grant without BLM's prior written authorization. If you need a right-of-way wider than 50 feet plus the ground occupied by the pipeline and related facilities, *see* § 2885.14 of this subpart;


(20) Not use the right-of-way or TUP area for any use other than that authorized by the grant or TUP. If you require other pipelines, looping lines, or other improvements not authorized by the grant or TUP, you must first secure BLM's written authorization;


(21) Not use or construct on the land in the right-of-way or TUP area until:


(i) BLM approves your detailed plan for construction, operation, and termination of the pipeline, including provisions for rehabilitation of the right-of-way or TUP area and environmental protection; and


(ii) You receive a Notice to Proceed for all or any part of the right-of-way or TUP area. In certain situations BLM may waive this requirement in writing; and


(22) Comply with all other stipulations that BLM may require.



---

[N] [70 FR 21078, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 65073, Oct. 31, 2008; 81 FR 92227, Dec. 19, 2016]




