# § 3288.210   Acceptance and recertification process.

(a) *Submission of certification.* A state seeking HUD acceptance of its state dispute resolution program under this subpart must submit to HUD a completed Dispute Resolution Certification Form, which is available by contacting HUD by telephone at (202) 708-6423 or by e-mail at *mhs@hud.gov.* The certification may be submitted as a part of, or independent of, a state plan under § 3282.302 of this chapter. If included as part of a state plan, the state does not have to separately certify that it meets the requirements of § 3288.205(a)(4).


(b) *HUD review and action.* (1) HUD will review the Dispute Resolution Certification Form submitted by a state and may contact the state to request additional clarification or information as necessary. Upon completing its review, HUD will provide the state with notice of acceptance, conditional acceptance, or rejection of its dispute resolution program.


(2) A notice of acceptance will include the date of acceptance.


(3) If HUD rejects a state's dispute resolution program, HUD will provide an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance. A revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form may be submitted within 30 days of receipt of such notification. If the revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form is inadequate or if the state fails to resubmit within the 30-day period or otherwise indicates that it does not intend to change its Dispute Resolution Certification Form, HUD will notify the state that its dispute resolution program is not accepted and that it has a right to a hearing on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter.


(c) *Conditional acceptance.* A state meeting three of the four minimum requirements set forth under § 3288.205(a)(1) through (4) will be conditionally accepted by HUD. If HUD conditionally accepts a state's dispute resolution program, HUD will provide an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full acceptance. A revised Dispute Resolution Certification Form may be submitted within 30 days of receipt of such notification. Any state conditionally accepted will be permitted to implement its own dispute resolution program for a period of not more than 3 years, absent extension of this period by HUD.


(d) *Revocation.* If HUD becomes aware at any time that a state no longer meets the minimum requirements set forth under § 3288.205, HUD may revoke acceptance of the state's certification after an opportunity for a hearing, using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282.


(e) *Recertification of a program not included in state plan.* Except as provided in paragraph (f), to maintain its accepted status, a state whose program is not included in an approved or conditionally approved state plan must submit a current Dispute Resolution Certification Form to HUD for review and acceptance as follows:


(1) Every 3 years within 90 days of the day and month of the most recent date of HUD's acceptance of the state's program or


(2) Whenever there is a significant change to the program.


(f) *Inclusion in state plan.* If a state dispute resolution program is part of a state plan, it will be reviewed annually as part of the state plan and separate recertification of the state's dispute resolution program is not required.




