# § 165.110   Safety and Security Zone; Liquefied Natural Gas Carrier Transits and Anchorage Operations, Boston, Massachusetts.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Authorized representative* means a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer or a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port (COTP) Boston.


*Deepwater port* means any facility or structure meeting the definition of deepwater port in 33 CFR 148.5.


*Support vessel* means any vessel meeting the definition of support vessel in 33 CFR 148.5.


(b) *Location.* The following areas are safety and security zones: 


(1) *Vessels underway.* All navigable waters of the United States within the Captain of the Port (COTP) Boston zone, as defined in 33 CFR 3.05-10, two miles ahead and one mile astern, and 500 yards on each side of any liquefied natural gas carrier (LNGC) vessel while underway. 


(2) *Vessels anchored in the Broad Sound.* All waters within a 500-yard radius of any anchored LNGC vessel located in the waters of Broad Sound bounded by a line starting at position 42 deg. 25′ N, 070 deg. 58′ W; then running southeast to position 42 deg. 22′ N, 070 deg. 56′ W; then running east to position 42 deg. 22′ N, 070 deg. 50′ W; then running north to position 42 deg. 25′ N, 070 deg. 50′ W; then running west back to the starting point (NAD 83). 


(3) *Vessels moored at the Distrigas LNG facility.* All waters within a 400-yard radius of any LNGC vessel moored at the Distrigas LNG facility in Everett, MA. 


(4) *Vessels calling on a deepwater port.* All waters within a 500-meter radius of any LNGC engaged in regasification or transfer, or otherwise moored, anchored, or affixed to a deepwater port listed in 33 CFR 150.490 and falling within the waters of the Boston COTP Zone, as defined in 33 CFR 3.05-10.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in Sec. 165.23 and Sec. 165.33 of this part, entry into or movement within these zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Boston, or his/her authorized representative. 


(2) No person or vessel may enter the waters within the boundaries of the safety and security zones described in paragraph (b) of this section unless previously authorized by the COTP Boston, or his/her authorized representative. However, LNGCs and support vessels, as defined in 33 CFR 148.5, operating in the vicinity of NEGDWP are authorized to enter and move within such zones in the normal course of their operations following the requirements set forth in 33 CFR 150.340 and 150.345, respectively.


(3) All vessels operating within the safety and security zones described in paragraph (b) of this section must comply with the instructions of the COTP or his/her authorized representative.



---

[N] [CGD01-02-023, 67 FR 63263, Oct. 11, 2002, as amended by USCG-2007-0087, 73 FR 34194, June 17, 2008]




