# 19.1403   Status.

(a) Status as an SDVOSB concern is determined by SBA in accordance with 13 CFR part 128; also see 19.307.


(b) For an SDVOSB concern that seeks an SDVOSB set-aside or sole-source contract, the contracting officer shall verify that the offeror—


(1) Effective January 1, 2024, is designated in the System for Award Management (SAM) as an SDVOSB concern certified by SBA; or


(2) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern in SAM and submitted an application for certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification Program database at *https://veterans.certify.sba.gov.*

(c) If there is a decision issued by SBA as a result of a current eligibility examination finding that the concern did not qualify as an SDVOSB concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program or SBA denies a concern's application for SDVOSB certification, the concern must update its SDVOSB status in SAM within 2 days of SBA's final decision to reflect that the concern is not an eligible SDVOSB. SBA will update the concern's SDVOSB status in SAM within 2 days of the concern's failure to make the update.


(d) Effective January 1, 2024, a joint venture may be considered an SDVOSB concern eligible under the SDVOSB Program if—


(1) The joint venture qualifies as small under 19.301-1(a)(2)(i);


(2) The managing SDVOSB joint venture partner—


(i) Is designated in SAM as an SDVOSB concern certified by SBA; or


(ii) Has represented that it is an SDVOSB concern in SAM and submitted an application for certification to SBA on or before December 31, 2023. Pending applications for certification are in the SBA Veteran Small Business Certification database at *https://veterans.certify.sba.gov;* and


(3) The joint venture complies with the requirements of 13 CFR 128.402.





---

[N] [89 FR 13958, Feb. 23, 2024]








