# § 821.14   Motions.

(a) *General.* Any application to a law judge or to the Board for an order or ruling not otherwise provided for in this part shall be by motion. Prior to the assignment of the proceeding to a law judge, all motions shall be addressed to the Case Manager. Thereafter, and prior to the expiration of the period within which an appeal from the law judge's initial decision may be filed, all motions shall be addressed to the law judge. At all other times, motions shall be addressed to the General Counsel. 


(b) *Form and content.* Unless made during a hearing, motions shall be made in writing, shall state with particularity the grounds for the relief requested, and shall be accompanied by affidavits or other evidence relied upon. Motions introduced during a hearing may be made orally on the record, unless the law judge directs otherwise. 


(c) *Replies to motions.* Except when a motion is made during a hearing, any party may file a reply, accompanied by such affidavits or other evidence as that party desires to rely upon, within 15 days after the date of service of the motion on that party. Upon notice to the parties, the law judge or the Board may, where appropriate, set a shorter time for filing a reply. Where a motion is made during a hearing, the reply may be made at the hearing, or orally or in writing within such time as the law judge may fix. 


(d) *Oral argument; briefs.* No oral argument will be heard on a motion unless the law judge or the Board directs otherwise. 


(e) *Effect of pendency of motions.* Except as provided in §§ 821.17(a) and 821.18(a), the filing or pendency of a motion shall not automatically alter or extend the time fixed in this part (or any extension thereof previously granted) for the parties to take any actions. 




