# § 91.3   General requirements.

(a) *Issuance of export health certificates.* (1) Livestock must have an endorsed export health certificate in order to be eligible for export from the United States.




(2) If APHIS knows that an importing country requires an export health certificate endorsed by the competent veterinary authority of the United States for any animal other than livestock or for any animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, or gametes intended for export to that country, the animal or other commodity must have an export health certificate endorsed by APHIS in order to be eligible for export from the United States.


(b) *Content of export health certificates*—(1) *Livestock; minimum requirements.* Regardless of the requirements of the importing country, at a minimum, the following information must be contained on an export health certificate for livestock:


(i) The species of each animal.


(ii) The breed of each animal.


(iii) The sex of each animal.


(iv) The age of each animal.


(v) The individual identification of the animals as required by § 91.5.


(vi) The importing country.


(vii) The consignor.


(viii) The consignee.


(ix) A certification that an accredited veterinarian inspected the livestock and found them to be fit for export.


(x) A signature and date by an accredited veterinarian.


(xi) An endorsement by the APHIS veterinarian responsible for the State of origin.


(2) *Livestock; additional requirements.* In addition to the minimum requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the export health certificate must meet any other information or issuance requirements specified by the importing country.


(3) *Animals other than livestock, animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, and gametes.* Export health certificates for animals other than livestock, animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, and gametes must meet any information requirements specified by the importing country.


(c) *Inspection requirements for livestock.* In order to be eligible for export, livestock must be inspected within the timeframe required by the importing country. If the importing country does not specify a timeframe, the livestock must be inspected within 30 days prior to the date of export.


(d) *Testing requirements for livestock.* All samples for tests of livestock that are required by the importing country must be taken by an APHIS representative or accredited veterinarian. The samples must be taken and tests made within the timeframe allowed by the importing country and, if specified, at the location required by the importing country. If the importing country does not specify a timeframe, the samples must be taken and tests made within 30 days prior to the date of export, except that tuberculin tests may be conducted within 90 days prior to the date of export. All tests for program diseases must be made in laboratories and using methods approved by the Administrator for those diseases. The Program Handbook contains a link to an APHIS Web site that lists laboratories approved to conduct tests for specific diseases. Approved methods are those specified or otherwise incorporated within the domestic regulations in subchapter C of this chapter.


(e) *Movement of livestock, animals other than livestock, animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, or gametes with an export health certificate*—(1) *Livestock.* An export health certificate for livestock must be issued and endorsed before the livestock move from the premises of export.


(2) *Animals other than livestock, animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, and gametes.* When an export health certificate is required by the importing country for any animal other than livestock or for animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, or gametes, it must be issued and, if required by the importing country, endorsed by an APHIS representative prior to departure of the animal or other commodity from the port of embarkation or the crossing of the land border port. When presented for endorsement, the health certificate must be accompanied by reports for all laboratory tests specifically identified on the certificate. The laboratory reports must either be the originals prepared by the laboratory that performed the tests or must be annotated by the laboratory that performed the test to indicate how the reports may be verified.


(f) *Validity of export health certificate*—(1) *Livestock.* Unless specified by the importing country, the export health certificate is valid for 30 days from the date of issuance, provided that the inspection and test results under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are still valid.


(2) *Animals other than livestock, animal semen, animal embryos, hatching eggs, other embryonated eggs, and gametes.* Unless specified by the importing country, the export health certificate is valid for 30 days from the date of issuance.



---

[N] [81 FR 2980, Jan. 20, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 74279, Oct. 26, 2016]






