# ยง 49.122   Partial delegation of administrative authority to a Tribe.

(a) *What is the purpose of this section?* The purpose of this section is to establish the process by which the Regional Administrator may delegate to an Indian Tribe partial authority to administer one or more of the Federal requirements in effect in subpart M of this part for a particular Indian reservation. The Federal requirements administered by the delegated Tribe will be subject to enforcement by EPA under Federal law. This section provides for administrative delegation and does not affect the eligibility criteria under ยง 49.6 for treatment in the same manner as a State.


(b) *How does a Tribe request partial delegation of administrative authority?* In order to be delegated authority to administer one or more of the Federal requirements that are in effect in subpart M of this part for a particular Indian reservation, the Tribe must submit a request to the Regional Administrator that:


(1) Identifies the specific provisions for which delegation is requested;


(2) Identifies the Indian reservation for which delegation is requested;


(3) Includes a statement by the applicant's legal counsel (or equivalent official) that includes the following information:


(i) A statement that the applicant is an Indian Tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior;


(ii) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the applicant is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area and that it meets the requirements of ยง 49.7(a)(2); and


(iii) A description of the laws of the Indian Tribe that provide adequate authority to carry out the aspects of the provisions for which delegation is requested; and


(4) Demonstrates that the Tribe has, or will have, the technical capability and adequate resources to carry out the aspects of the provisions for which delegation is requested.


(c) *How is the partial delegation of administrative authority accomplished?* (1) A Partial Delegation of Administrative Authority Agreement will set forth the terms and conditions of the delegation, will specify the provisions that the Tribe will be authorized to administer on behalf of EPA, and will be entered into by the Regional Administrator and the Tribe. The Agreement will become effective upon the date that both the Regional Administrator and the Tribe have signed the Agreement. Once the delegation becomes effective, the Tribe will have the authority under the Clean Air Act, to the extent specified in the Agreement, for administering one or more of the Federal requirements that are in effect in subpart M of this part for the particular Indian reservation and will act on behalf of the Regional Administrator.


(2) A Partial Delegation of Administrative Authority Agreement may be modified, amended, or revoked, in part or in whole, by the Regional Administrator after consultation with the Tribe. Any substantive modifications or amendments will be subject to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *How will any partial delegation of administrative authority be publicized?* (1) Prior to making any final decision to delegate partial administrative authority to a Tribe under this section, EPA will consult with appropriate governmental entities outside of the specified reservation and city and county governments located within the boundaries of the specified reservation.


(2) The Regional Administrator will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ informing the public of any Partial Delegation of Administrative Authority Agreement for a particular Indian reservation and will note such delegation in the implementation plan for the Indian reservation. The Regional Administrator will also publish an announcement of the partial delegation agreement in local newspapers.




