# § 63.1455   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section that applies to you.


(1) You must submit a compliance report semiannually according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section and containing the information in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) Before November 12, 2024, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period that is not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan. You must report the actions taken for the event by fax or telephone within 2 working days after starting actions inconsistent with the plan. You must submit the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii) by letter within 7 working days after the end of the event unless you have made alternative arrangements with the delegated authority. On or after November 12, 2024, you must report any deviation from an applicable standard in §§ 63.1444, 63.1445, and 63.1446 as part of your semiannual compliance report and include the information required in paragraph (c) of this section. In an event of an emergency situation, you must report the emergency and the actions taken for the event by email or telephone within 2 working days of the time when emissions limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the delegated authority). For the purposes of complying with this paragraph (a)(2), an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the affected source to exceed an applicable emissions limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error. You must submit the report within 7 working days after the end of the event unless you have made alternative arrangements with the delegated authority. This report must contain a description of the emergency, any steps take to mitigate the emissions and corrective actions taken.


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule under § 63.10(a), you must submit each compliance report required in paragraph (a) of this section according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section following the procedures in § 63.9(k).


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1443 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.1443.


(2) The first compliance report must be delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after your first compliance report is due.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the delegated authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the delegated authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(c) Each compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (c)(4) through (8) of this section.


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, as defined in § 63.2, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) Before November 12, 2024, if you had a startup, shutdown or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). On or after November 12, 2024, you are not required to have a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan and you are not required to include in your report the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i).


(5) If there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit, operating limit, opacity limit) that applies to you and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice standards in this subpart, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.


(6) If there were no periods during which an operating parameter monitoring system was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the monitoring system was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(7) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, opacity limit) and for each deviation from the requirements for work practice standards that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system to comply with the emission limitations or work practice standards in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section and the information in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(ii) Information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, the corrective action taken, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, opacity limit, and visible emission limit) occurring at an affected source where you are using an operating parameter monitoring system to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section and the information in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (xi) of this section.


(i) The cause of each deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), the corrective action taken, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(ii) If the monitoring system was inoperative, the date and time that each monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) If the monitoring system was inoperative, the date, time and duration that each monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(iv) The number, date and time that each deviation started and stopped.


(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vii) A summary of the total duration of monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(viii) A brief description of the process units.


(ix) A brief description of the monitoring system.


(x) The date of the latest monitoring system certification or audit.


(xi) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(d) If you have obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If you submit a compliance report pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation (including any operating limit), or work practice requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report is deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority.


(e) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or continuous monitoring system (CMS) performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test or performance evaluation following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test or the performance evaluation of CMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test or the performance evaluation of CMS measuring RATA pollutants by methods that are not supported by the ERT, must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.






