# § 668.48   Report on completion or graduation rates for student-athletes.

(a)(1) Annually, by July 1, an institution that is attended by students receiving athletically-related student aid must produce a report containing the following information:


(i) The number of students, categorized by race and gender, who attended that institution during the year prior to the submission of the report. 


(ii) The number of students described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section who received athletically-related student aid, categorized by race and gender within each sport.


(iii) The completion or graduation rate and if applicable, transfer-out rate of all the entering, certificate- or degree-seeking, full-time, undergraduate students described in § 668.45(a)(1), categorized by race and gender.


(iv) The completion or graduation rate and if applicable, transfer-out rate of the entering students described in § 668.45(a)(1) who received athletically-related student aid, categorized by race and gender within each sport.


(v) The average completion or graduation rate and if applicable, transfer-out rate for the four most recent completing or graduating classes of entering students described in § 668.45(a)(1), (3), and (4) categorized by race and gender. If an institution has completion or graduation rates and, if applicable, transfer-out rates for fewer than four of those classes, it must disclose the average rate of those classes for which it has rates.


(vi) The average completion or graduation rate and if applicable, transfer-out rate of the four most recent completing or graduating classes of entering students described in § 668.45 (a)(1) who received athletically-related student aid, categorized by race and gender within each sport. If an institution has completion or graduation rates and if applicable, transfer-out rates for fewer than four of those classes, it must disclose the average rate of those classes for which it has rates.


(2) For purposes of this section, *sport* means—


(i) Basketball;


(ii) Football;


(iii) Baseball;


(iv) Cross-country and track combined; and


(v) All other sports combined.


(3) If a category of students identified in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) above contains five or fewer students, the institution need not disclose information on that category of students.


(b) The provisions of § 668.45 (a), (b), (c), and (d) apply for purposes of calculating the completion or graduation rates and, if applicable, transfer-out rates required under paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) through (vi) of this section.


(c) Each institution of higher education described in paragraph (a) of this section may also provide to students and the Secretary supplemental information containing—


(1) The graduation or completion rate of the students who transferred into the institution; and


(2) The number of students who transferred out of the institution.


(d) The provisions of § 668.45(e) apply for purposes of this section.



---

[N] [60 FR 61788, Dec. 1, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 64 FR 59067, 59072, Nov. 1, 1999; 69 FR 12276, Mar. 16, 2004] 




