# § 436.832   Post-eligibility treatment of income of institutionalized individuals: Application of patient income to the cost of care.

(a) *Basic rules.* (1) The agency must reduce its payment to an institution, for services provided to an individual specified in paragraph (b) of this section, by the amount that remains after deducting the amounts specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section from the individual's total income. 


(2) The individual's income must be determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. 


(3) Medical expenses must be determined in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies to medically needy individuals in medical institutions and intermediate care facilities.


(c) *Required deductions.* The agency must deduct the following amounts, in the following order, from the individual's total income as determined under paragraph (e) of this section. Income that was disregarded in determining eligibility must be considered in this process.


(1) *Personal needs allowance.* A personal needs allowance that is reasonable in amount for clothing and other personal needs of the individual while in the institution. This protected personal needs allowance must be at least— 


(i) $30 a month for an aged, blind, or disabled individual, including a child applying for Medicaid on the basis of blindness or disability; 


(ii) $60 a month for an institutionalized couple if both spouses are aged, blind, or disabled and their income is considered available to each other in determining eligibility; and 


(iii) For other individuals, a reasonable amount set by the agency, based on a reasonable difference in their personal needs from those of the aged, blind, or disabled.


(2) *Maintenance needs of spouse.* For an individual with only a spouse at home, an additional amount for the maintenance needs of the spouse. This amount must be based on a reasonable assessment of need but must not exceed the higher of—


(i) The amount of the highest need standard for an individual without income and resources under the State's approved plan for OAA, AFDC, AB, APTD, or AABD; or


(ii) The amount of the highest medically needy income standard for one person established under § 436.811.


(3) *Maintenance needs of family.* For an individual with a family at home, an additional amount for the maintenance needs of the family. This amount must—


(i) Be based on a reasonable assessment of their financial need;


(ii) Be adjusted for the number of family members living in the home; and


(iii) Not exceed the highest of the following need standards for a family of the same size:


(A) The standard used to determine eligibility under the State's Medicaid plan, as provided for in § 436.811.


(B) The standard used to determine eligibility under the State's approved AFDC plan.


(4) *Expenses not subject to third party payment.* Amounts for incurred expenses for medical or remedial care that are not subject to payment by a third party, including— 


(i) Medicare and other health insurance premiums, deductibles, or coinsurance charges; and 


(ii) Necessary medical or remedial care recognized under State law but not covered under the State's Medicaid plan, subject to reasonable limits the agency may establish on amounts of these expenses. 


(d) *Optional deduction: Allowance for home maintenance.* For single individuals and couples, an amount (in addition to the personal needs allowance) for maintenance of the individual's or couple's home if— 


(1) The amount is deducted for not more than a 6-month period; and 


(2) A physician has certified that either of the individuals is likely to return to the home within that period.


(e) *Determination of income*—(1) *Option.* In determining the amount of an individual's income to be used to reduce the agency's payment to the institution, the agency may use total income received or it may project total monthly income for a prospective period not to exceed 6 months.


(2) *Basis for projection.* The agency must base the projection on income received in the preceding period, not to exceed 6 months, and on income expected to be received.


(3) *Adjustments.* At the end of the prospective period specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, or when any significant change occurs, the agency must reconcile estimates with income received.


(f) *Determination of medical expenses*—(1) *Option.* In determining the amount of medical expenses to be deducted from an individual's income, the agency may deduct incurred medical expenses, or it may project medical expenses for a prospective period not to exceed 6 months.


(2) *Basis for projection.* The agency must base the estimate on medical expenses incurred in the preceding period, not to exceed 6 months, and medical expenses expected to be incurred.


(3) *Adjustments.* At the end of the prospective period specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, or when any significant change occurs, the agency must reconcile estimates with incurred medical expenses.



---

[N] [45 FR 24888, Apr. 11, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 47991, Sept. 30, 1981; 48 FR 5735, Feb. 8, 1983; 53 FR 3597, Feb. 8, 1988; 56 FR 8851, 8854, Mar. 1, 1991; 58 FR 4938, Jan. 19, 1993]




