# § 28.11   Nonconforming uses.

(a) Any use or structure lawfully existing under local law as of October 17, 1984 and rendered nonconforming by adoption of the federal standards may continue, subject to the provisions of this section, and will not lose its exemption from condemnation, if otherwise eligible.


(b) *Change in nonconforming uses.* (1) No nonconforming development or use may be altered, intensified, enlarged, extended, or moved except to bring the use or structure into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.


(2) A nonconforming use which has been abandoned for more than one (1) year may not be resumed or replaced by another nonconforming use or structure.


(3) A nonconforming use in the Dune District may be moved to bring it into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.


(c) *Reconstruction of nonconforming uses.* If a nonconforming use or structure is severely damaged (as determined by fair professional insurance practices), destroyed or rendered a hazard, whether by fire, natural disaster, abandonment or neglect, no alteration, intensification, enlargement, reconstruction, extension, or movement is allowable without compliance with the following conditions:


(1) No use or structure within the Seashore built in violation of a local ordinance when constructed may be reconstructed except in compliance with the approved local zoning ordinance.


(2) Local building permit applications for reconstruction shall be filed with the appropriate zoning authority within one (1) year of the damage, destruction, or abandonment.


(3) A commercial or industrial use may not be reconstructed without the approval of the local zoning authority and review by the Superintendent.


(4) A nonconforming use in the Community Development District or in the Seashore District (i.e. “improved property”) may be reconstructed to previous dimensions. It may not be altered, enlarged, intensified, extended, or moved except to bring the use or structure into conformity with the approved local zoning ordinance.


(5) A nonconforming use in the Dune District may be reconstructed if it can conform to the approved local zoning ordinance and lie north of the crest of the dune at the time of reconstruction.




