# ยง 4.1013   How must documents be served?

(a) *Filed documents.* Any document related to a case under this subpart must be served at the same time the document is delivered or sent for filing. Copies must be served on each party, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Documents issued by DCHD or the ALJ.* A complete copy of any notice, order, recommended decision, or other document issued by DCHD or the ALJ under this subpart must be served on each party, using one of the methods of service in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Method of service.* Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, service must be accomplished by one of the following methods:


(1) By hand delivery of the document;


(2) By sending the document by express mail or courier service for delivery on the next business day; or


(3) By sending the document by facsimile if:


(i) The document is 20 pages or less, including all attachments;


(ii) The sending facsimile machine confirms that the transmission was successful; and


(iii) The document is sent by regular mail on the same day; or


(4) By transmitting the document electronically if there is electronic confirmation that the transmission was successful and if under the terms specified in OHA Standing Orders.


(d) *Certificate of service.* A certificate of service must be attached to each document filed under this subpart. The certificate must be signed by the serving party's representative and include the following information:


(1) The name, address, and other contact information of each party's representative on whom the document was served;


(2) The means of service, including information indicating compliance with paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section, if applicable; and


(3) The date of service.



---

[N] [36 FR 7186, Apr. 15, 1971, as amended at 88 FR 5794, Jan. 30, 2023]




