# § 721.10064   2-Propenoic acid, 2-[2-(ethenyloxy)ethoxy]ethyl ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-propenoic acid, 2-[2-(ethenyloxy)ethoxy]ethyl ester (PMN P-04-909; CAS No. 86273-46-3) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3)(i), (b), and (c). North Butyl Black gloves and T-1 Dailove Ethylene Vinylalcohol Copolymer Laminated Blue gloves have been demonstrated to satisfy (a)(3)(i). Other demonstrated impervious gloves that satisfy (a)(3)(i) are also permissible.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [72 FR 53482, Sept. 19, 2007]




