# ยง 60.501a   Definitions.

The terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act, in ยง 60.2, or in this section as follows:


*3-hour rolling average* means the arithmetic mean of the previous thirty-six 5-minute periods of valid operating data collected, as specified, for the monitored parameter. Valid data excludes data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control, while conducting repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or while conducting required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities. The thirty-six 5-minute periods should be consecutive, but not necessarily continuous if operations or the collection of valid data were intermittent.


*Bulk gasoline terminal* means any gasoline facility which receives gasoline by pipeline, ship, barge, or cargo tank and subsequently loads all or a portion of the gasoline into gasoline cargo tanks for transport to bulk gasoline plants or gasoline dispensing facilities and has a gasoline throughput greater than 20,000 gallons per day (75,700 liters per day). Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput for the facility as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal, State, or local law and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


*Continuous monitoring system* is a comprehensive term that may include, but is not limited to, continuous emission monitoring systems, continuous parameter monitoring systems, or other manual or automatic monitoring that is used for demonstrating compliance on a continuous basis.


*Equipment* means each valve, pump, pressure relief device, open-ended valve or line, sampling connection system, and flange or other connector in the gasoline liquid transfer and vapor collection systems. This definition also includes the entire vapor processing system except the exhaust port(s) or stack(s).


*Flare* means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 4.0 pounds per square inch (27.6 kilopascals) or greater which is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.


*Gasoline cargo tank* means a delivery tank truck or railcar which is loading gasoline or which has loaded gasoline on the immediately previous load.


*In gasoline service* means that a piece of equipment is used in a system that transfers gasoline or gasoline vapors.


*Loading rack* means the loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves necessary to fill gasoline cargo tanks.


*Submerged filling* means the filling of a gasoline cargo tank through a submerged fill pipe whose discharge is no more than the 6 inches from the bottom of the tank. Bottom filling of gasoline cargo tanks is included in this definition.


*Thermal oxidation system* means an enclosed combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize air pollutants. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat air pollutants to combustion temperatures. *Thermal oxidation systems* emit pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.


*Total organic compounds (TOC)* means those compounds measured according to the procedures in Method 25, 25A, or 25B of appendix A-7 to this part. The methane content may be excluded from the TOC concentration as described in ยง 60.503a.


*Vapor collection system* means any equipment used for containing total organic compounds vapors displaced during the loading of gasoline cargo tanks.


*Vapor processing system* means all equipment used for recovering or oxidizing total organic compounds vapors displaced from the affected facility.


*Vapor recovery system* means processing equipment used to absorb and/or condense collected vapors and return the total organic compounds for blending with gasoline or other petroleum products or return to a petroleum refinery or transmix facility for further processing. Vapor recovery systems include but are not limited to carbon adsorption systems or refrigerated condensers.


*Vapor-tight gasoline cargo tank* means a gasoline cargo tank which has demonstrated within the 12 preceding months that it meets the annual certification test requirements in ยง 60.503a(f).






