# ยง 114.14   Extension of expiration date for a serial or subserial.

(a) Unless otherwise provided for in a filed Outline of Production for the product, the expiration date shall not be extended:


(1) If all fractions of the product are not evaluated for potency by tests designated in the filed Outline of Production for such product in accordance with ยง 113.4(b) of this subchapter.


(2) For any serial or portion of any serial which has left licensed premises: *Provided,* That product which has been shipped from one licensed premises to another licensed premises shall be exempt from this requirement. 


(3) For a serial or portion of a serial if the expiration date has been extended previously, unless otherwise authorized in accordance with ยง 114.1. 


(b) An extension of the expiration date may be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service if a request from the licensee is substantiated by valid test data which demonstrate the potency of the product meets or exceeds the requirements for release. The new expiration date shall be calculated from the date the latest satisfactory potency test was initiated. The extension of the expiration date shall not exceed the maximum dating allowed in the filed Outline of Production.


(1) Serials are approved for redating under the condition that Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service may require the firm to retest the redated serial for potency during the extended dating period and if found unsatisfactory require it be removed from the market by the licensee.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [50 FR 24903, June 14, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 66784, Dec. 26, 1991]




