# ยง 702.411   Prior written approval to prepay Subordinated Debt.

(a) *Prepayment option.* An Issuing Credit Union may include in the terms of its Subordinated Debt an option that allows the Issuing Credit Union to prepay the Subordinated Debt in whole or in part prior to maturity, provided, however, that the Issuing Credit Union is required to:


(1) Clearly disclose the requirements of this section in the Subordinated Debt Note; and


(2) Obtain approval under paragraph (b) of this section before exercising a prepayment option.


(b) *Prepayment application.* Before an Issuing Credit Union can, in whole or in part, prepay Subordinated Debt prior to maturity, the Issuing Credit Union must first submit to the Appropriate Supervision Office an application that must include, at a minimum, the information required in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Federally insured, state-chartered credit union prepayment applications.* Before a federally insured, state-chartered credit union may submit an application for prepayment to the Appropriate Supervision Office, it must obtain written approval from its state supervisory authority to prepay the Subordinated Debt it is proposing to prepay. A federally insured, state-chartered credit union must provide evidence of such approval as part of its application to the Appropriate Supervision Office.


(d) *Application contents.* An Issuing Credit Union's application to prepay Subordinated Debt must include, at a minimum, the following:


(1) A copy of the Subordinated Debt Note and any agreement(s) reflecting the terms and conditions of the Subordinated Debt the Issuing Credit Union is proposing to prepay;


(2) An explanation why the Issuing Credit Union believes it still would hold an amount of capital commensurate with its risk exposure notwithstanding the proposed prepayment or a description of the replacement Subordinated Debt, including the amount of such instrument, and the time frame for issuance, the Issuing Credit Union is proposing to use to replace the prepaid Subordinated Debt; and


(3) Any additional information the Appropriate Supervision Office requests.


(e) *Decision on application to prepay.* (1) Within 45 calendar days (which may be extended by the Appropriate Supervision Office) after the date of receipt of a complete application, the Appropriate Supervision Office will provide the Issuing Credit Union with a written determination on its application. In the case of a full or partial denial, including a conditional approval under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the written decision will state the reasons for the denial or conditional approval.


(2) The written determination from the Appropriate Supervision Office may approve the Issuing Credit Union's request, approve the Issuing Credit Union's request with conditions, or deny the Issuing Credit Union's request. In the case of a denial or conditional approval, the Appropriate Supervision Office will provide the Issuing Credit Union with a description of why it denied the Issuing Credit Union's request or imposed conditions on the approval of such request.


(3) If the Issuing Credit Union proposes or the NCUA requires the Issuing Credit Union to replace the Subordinated Debt, the Issuing Credit Union must receive affirmative approval under this subpart and must issue and sell the replacement instrument prior to or concurrently with prepaying the Subordinated Debt.


(f) *Resubmissions.* An Issuing Credit Union that receives an adverse written determination on its application to prepay, in whole or in part, may cure any deficiencies noted in the Appropriate Supervision Office's written determination and reapply under the requirements of this section. This paragraph (f) does not prohibit an Issuing Credit Union from appealing the Appropriate Supervision Office's adverse decision under subpart A of part 746 of this chapter.




