# 6101.13   Discovery generally [Rule 13].

(a) *Methods.* Parties may obtain discovery by depositions, interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission.


(b) *Scope.* Unless otherwise ordered, the scope of discovery is the same as under Rule 26(b)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(c) *Limits.* The Board may limit the frequency or extent of discovery for a reason stated in Rule 26(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(d) *Timing.* The Board encourages parties to agree on a discovery plan that the Board may adopt in a scheduling order. The Board may modify an agreed discovery plan.


(e) *Disputes*—(1) *Objections.* A party objecting to a written discovery request must make the objection in writing no later than the date that its response to the discovery request is due.


(2) *Duty to cooperate.* Parties shall try in good faith to resolve objections to discovery requests without involving the Board. The Board may impose an appropriate sanction under Rule 35 (48 CFR 6101.35) on a party that does not meet its discovery obligations.


(3) *Motions to compel.* A party may move to compel a response or a supplemental response to a discovery request. The movant shall attach to its motion a copy of each discovery request and response at issue, and shall represent in the motion that the movant complied with Rule 13(e)(2) (paragraph (e)(2) of this section).


(f) *Subpoenas.* A party may request a subpoena under Rule 16 (48 CFR 6101.16).




