# § 4270.11   Requirements associated with promotional certification materials.

(a) *How participation in the BioPreferred Program can be promoted.* Guidance on promoting participation in the BioPreferred Program is provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. USDA will evaluate additional requests for uses of promotional materials or references to the Program and will offer guidance on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(1) *Participating Organizations.* Only Participating Organizations that have received a notice of certification, or Designated Representatives of the Participating Organization, may utilize certification materials provided by the BioPreferred Program. A Participating Organization that has received a notice of certification for a product under this part:


(i) May use the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label (in one of the approved variations, as applicable) on the product, its packaging, and other related materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, specification sheets, procurement sheets, procurement databases, promotional material, websites, or user manuals for that product, according to the requirements set forth in this section.


(ii) Is responsible for the manner in which the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is used by its companies, as well as its Designated Representatives, including advertising agencies, marketing and public relations firms, and subcontractors.


(2) *Other Entities.* Other Entities who have entered into a partnership agreement with USDA may use the BioPreferred Program's promotional certification materials to advertise or promote Certified Biobased Products in materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials. Other Entities may use:


(i) The Certification Icon;


(ii) The phrase “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product & Package,” as applicable; and


(iii) The BioPreferred Program name in general statements as described in paragraph (b) of this section, as long as the statements do not imply that a non-certified product is certified or endorsed by USDA.


(b) *Correct usage of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other promotional certification materials.* (1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can be affixed only to Certified Biobased Products and their associated packaging.


(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials to distinguish certified products from those that are not certified. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used in advertisements for both Certified Biobased Products and non-certified/labeled products if the advertisement clearly indicates which products are certified/labeled. Care must be taken to avoid implying that any non-certified products are certified.


(3) When educating the public about the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, the watermarked sample version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be used without reference to a specific Biobased Product. For example, the following or similar claims are acceptable: “Look for the `USDA Certified Biobased Product Label. It means that the product meets USDA standards for the minimum amount of Biobased Content and the manufacturer or vendor has provided relevant information on the product to be posted on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).” This exception allows Participating Organizations or Other Entities to use a sample USDA Certified Biobased Product Label in documents such as corporate reports, but only in an informative manner, not as a statement of product certification.


(4) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may appear next to a picture of the Certified Biobased Product(s) or text describing it.


(5) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must stand alone and not be incorporated into any other certification mark or logo designs.


(6) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be embossed, stamped, or used as a watermark provided the use does not violate any BioPreferred Program brand standards or usage restrictions specified in this part.


(7) The text portion of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must be written in English and may not be translated, even when the certification mark is used outside of the United States.


(c) *Incorrect usage of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other promotional certification materials.* (1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on any product that has not been certified by USDA as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product.”


(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used in a way that does not maintain the integrity of the label and the BioPreferred Program.


(3) The word “BioPreferred” will not be used as a descriptor for anything other than the Program, including but not limited to products, categories, and companies. The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” and the phrase “USDA Certified Biobased Product” are not interchangeable. For example, certified products may not be referenced as being “BioPreferred products.”


(4) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on any advertisements or informal materials where both Certified Biobased Products and non-certified products are shown unless it is clear that the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label applies to only the Certified Biobased Product(s).


(5) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used to imply endorsement by USDA or the BioPreferred Program of any particular product, service, or company.


(6) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used in any form that could be misleading to the consumer.


(7) The BioPreferred Program name and the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used by manufacturers or vendors of Certified Biobased Products in a manner disparaging to USDA or any other government body.


(8) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be altered or incorporated into other label or logo designs.


(9) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be used on business cards, company letterhead, company stationary, or email signatures.


(10) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be used in, or as part of, any company name, logo, product name, service, or website, except as may be provided for in this part.


(11) The BioPreferred Program name, the word “BioPreferred,” the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label, and the Certification Icon will not be used in a manner that violates any of the applicable requirements contained in this part.


(d) *Imported products.* The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can be used only with a product that is certified by USDA under this part. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label cannot be used to imply that a product meets or exceeds the requirements of biobased programs in other countries. Products imported for sale in the U.S. must adhere to the same guidelines as U.S. sourced Biobased Products. Any product sold in the U.S. as a “USDA Certified Biobased Product/Package/Product & Package” must have received certification from USDA.


(e) *Elements of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.* The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will consist of the Certification Icon, the Biobased Content percentage, the letters “FP” to indicate that the product is qualified for preferred Federal procurement, and one of the three variations of text specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable.


(1) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Product.


(2) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Package.


(3) USDA Certified Biobased Product: Product & Package.


(f) *Physical aspects of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.* The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label elements may not be altered, cut, separated into components, or distorted in appearance or perspective. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear only in the colors specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section unless approval is given by USDA for an exception.


(1) A multi-color version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is preferred. The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label colors to be applied will be stipulated in the “USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines” document available on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(2) Black or white outline versions of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label are acceptable.


(g) *Placement of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.* (1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label can appear directly on a product, its associated packaging, in user manuals, and in other materials including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, and promotional and educational materials.


(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will not be placed in a manner that is ambiguous about which product is a Certified Biobased Product or that could indicate certification of a non-certified product.


(3) When used to distinguish a Certified Biobased Product in material including, but not limited to, advertisements, catalogs, procurement databases, websites, and promotional and educational materials, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear near a picture of the product or text describing it.


(i) If all products on a page are Certified Biobased Products with the same Biobased Content percentage, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be placed anywhere on that page.


(ii) If a page contains a mix of Certified Biobased Products and non-certified Biobased Products, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label will be placed in close proximity to the Certified Biobased Products. An individual USDA Certified Biobased Product Label near each Certified Biobased Product may be necessary to avoid confusion.


(h) *Minimum size and clear space requirements for the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label.* (1) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label may be sized to fit the individual application as long as the correct proportions are maintained, and all elements of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label remain legible.


(2) The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must be surrounded by a border of clear space that must be of sufficient width to offset it from surrounding images and text to avoid confusion. If a one-color outline version of the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label is used, the USDA Certified Biobased Product Label must appear on a solid background that is a contrasting color.


(i) *Where to obtain copies of the promotional certification materials.* The USDA Certified Biobased Product Label and other associated promotional materials including the USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines are available at the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).






