# ยง 429.204   Are there any restrictions on what is allowable?

Claims of the type described in this section are only allowable subject to the restrictions noted:


(a) *Money or currency, including coin collections.* Allowable only when lost because of fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft from quarters (as limited by ยง 429.203(c)(1)), or under other reasonable circumstances in which it would be in the Government's best interest to make payment. In cases involving theft from quarters, the evidence must conclusively show that your quarters were locked at the time of the theft. Reimbursement for loss of money or currency is limited to the amount it is determined reasonable for you to have had in your possession at the time of the loss.


(b) *Government property.* Allowable only for property owned by the United States for which you are financially responsible to an agency of the Government other than SSA.


(c) *Estimate fees.* Allowable for fees paid to obtain estimates of repairs only when it is clear that you could not have obtained an estimate without paying a fee. In that case, the fee is allowable only in an amount determined to be reasonable in relation to the value of the property or the cost of the repairs.


(d) *Automobiles and motor vehicles.* (1) Claims may only be allowed for damage to, or loss of, automobiles and other motor vehicles if:


(i) You were required by your supervisor to use a motor vehicle for official Government business (official Government business, as used here, does not include travel, or parking incident to travel, between quarters and office, quarters and an approved telecommuting center, or use of vehicles for the convenience of the owner. However, it does include travel, and parking incident thereto, between quarters and an assigned place of duty specifically authorized by your supervisor as being more advantageous to the Government); or


(ii) Shipment of such motor vehicles was being furnished or provided by the Government, subject to the provisions of ยง 429.206; or


(2) When a claim involves damage to or loss of automobile or other motor vehicle, you will be required to present proof of insurance coverage, the deductible amount, and the amount, if any, you recovered from the insurer. If your claim is for an amount that exceeds the deductible on the insurance policy, the maximum allowable recovery will be for the amount of the deductible. If the vehicle is uninsured, the maximum allowed will be $500.00.


(e) *Computers and electronics.* Claims may be allowed for loss of, or damage to, cellular phones, fax machines, computers and related hardware and software only when lost or damaged incident to fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft from quarters (as limited by ยง 429.203(c)(1)), other reasonable circumstances in which it would be in the Government's best interest to make payment, or unless being shipped as a part of a change of duty station paid for by the Agency. In incidents of theft from quarters, it must be conclusively shown that your quarters were locked at the time of the theft.


(f) *Alternate work locations.* When a claim is filed for property damage or loss at a non-Government alternate work location at which you are working pursuant to an approved flexiplace work agreement, you are required to present proof of insurance coverage, the deductible amount, and the amount, if any, you recovered from the insurer. If your claim is for an amount that exceeds the deductible on the insurance policy, the maximum allowable recovery will be for the amount of the deductible. If the property is uninsured, the maximum allowed will be $1,000.00.




