# ยง 385.706   Initial and reply briefs before initial decision (Rule 706).

(a) *When filed.* The presiding officer will prescribe a time for filing initial or reply briefs and for service of such briefs, giving due regard to the nature of the proceeding, the extent of the record, and the number and complexity of the issues. Unless the presiding officer otherwise orders, the time prescribed in a proceeding for filing briefs will be the same for all initial briefs and the same for all reply briefs.


(b) *Contents.* (1) An initial brief filed with the presiding officer must include:


(i) A concise statement of the case;


(ii) A separate section containing proposed findings and conclusions, unless waived by the presiding officer;


(iii) Arguments in support of the participant's position; and


(iv) Any other matter required by the presiding officer.


(2)(i) A reply brief filed with the presiding officer must be limited to a response to any arguments and issues raised in the initial briefs.


(ii) The presiding officer may impose limits on the reply brief in addition to any prescribed under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(c) *Form.* (1) An exhibit admitted in evidence or marked for identification in the record may not be reproduced in the brief, but may be reproduced, within reasonable limits, in an appendix to the brief. Any pertinent analysis of an exhibit may be included in a brief.


(2) If a brief exceeds 20 pages, the brief must be accompanied by a table of contents and of points made, including page references, and an alphabetical list of citations, with page references.


(d) *Record.* All initial and reply briefs will accompany the record and be available to the Commission and the presiding officer for consideration in deciding the case.




