# ยง 573.10   Reporting the sale or lease of defective or noncompliant tires.

(a) *Reporting requirement.* Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, any person who knowingly and willfully sells or leases for use on a motor vehicle a defective tire or a tire that is not compliant with an applicable tire safety standard with actual knowledge that the manufacturer of such tire has notified its dealers of such defect or noncompliance as required under 49 U.S.C. 30118(c) or as required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b) must report that sale or lease to the Associate Administrator for Enforcement, NHTSA, 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE., Washington, DC 20590.


(b) *Exclusions from reporting requirement.* Paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable where, before delivery under a sale or lease of a tire: 


(1) The defect or noncompliance of the tire is remedied as required under 49 U.S.C. 30120; or 


(2) Notification of the defect or noncompliance is required by an order under 49 U.S.C. 30118(b), but enforcement of the order is restrained or the order is set aside in a civil action to which 49 U.S.C. 30121(d) applies. 


(c) *Contents of report; requirement of signature.* (1) A report submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must contain the following information, where that information is available to the person selling or leasing the defective or noncompliant tire: 


(i) A statement that the report is being submitted pursuant to 49 CFR 573.10(a) (sale or lease of defective or noncompliant tires); 


(ii) The name, address and phone number of the person who purchased or leased the tire; 


(iii) The name of the manufacturer of the tire; 


(iv) The tire's brand name, model name, and size; 


(v) The tire's DOT identification number; 


(vi) The date of the sale or lease; and 


(vii) The name, address, and telephone number of the seller or lessor. 


(2) Each report must be dated and signed, with the name of the person signing the report legibly printed or typed below the signature. 


(d) Reports required to be submitted pursuant to this section must be submitted no more than that five working days after a person to whom a tire covered by this section has been sold or leased has taken possession of that tire. Submissions must be made by any means which permits the sender to verify promptly that the report was in fact received by NHTSA and the day it was received by NHTSA.



---

[N] [65 FR 81413, Dec. 26, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 32016, June 11, 2007]




