# § 60.5394c   What GHG standards apply to process controller designated facilities?

Each process controller designated facility must comply with the GHG standards in this section.


(a) You must design and operate each process controller designated facility with zero methane emissions to the atmosphere, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(1) If you comply by routing the emissions to a process, emissions must be routed to a process through a closed vent system.


(2) If you comply by using a self-contained natural gas-driven process controller, you must design and operate each self-contained natural gas-driven process controller with no identifiable emissions, as demonstrated by § 60.5416c(b).


(b) For each process controller designated facility located at a site in Alaska that does not have access to electrical power, you may comply with either paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section or with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, instead of complying with paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) With the exception of natural gas-driven continuous bleed controllers that meet the condition in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section and that comply with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, each natural gas-driven continuous bleed process controller in the process controller designated facility must have a bleed rate less than or equal to 6 standard cubic feet per hour (scfh).


(i) A natural gas-driven continuous bleed process controller with a bleed rate higher than 6 scfh may be used if the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section are met.


(ii) You demonstrate that a natural gas-driven continuous bleed controller with a bleed rate higher than 6 scfh is required. The demonstration must be based on the specific functional need, including but not limited to response time, safety, or positive actuation.


(2) Each natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller in the process controller designated facility must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Each natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller must not emit to the atmosphere during idle periods.


(ii) You must monitor each natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller to ensure that it is not emitting to the atmosphere during idle periods, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Monitoring must be conducted at the same frequency as specified for fugitive emissions components designated facilities located at the same type of site, as specified in § 60.5397c(g).


(B) You must include the monitoring of each natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller in the monitoring plan required in § 60.5397c(b).


(C) When monitoring identifies emissions to the atmosphere from a natural gas-driven intermittent vent controller during idle periods, you must take corrective action by repairing or replacing the natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller within 5 calendar days of the date the emissions to the atmosphere were detected. After the repair or replacement of a natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller, you must re-survey the natural gas-driven intermittent vent process controller within five days to verify that it is not venting emissions during idle periods.


(3) You must reduce methane emissions from all controllers in the process controller designated facility by 95.0 percent. You must route emissions to a control device through a closed vent system that meets the conditions specified in § 60.5412c.


(c) If you route process controller emissions to a process or a control device, you must route the process controller designated facility emissions through a closed vent system that meets the requirements of § 60.5411c(a) and (c).


(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance with standards that apply to process controller designated facilities as required by § 60.5410c(e).


(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with standards that apply to process controller designated facilities as required by § 60.5415c(g).


(f) You must perform the reporting as required by § 60.5420c(b)(1), (6) and (10) through (12), as applicable, and the recordkeeping as required by § 60.5420c(c)(5), (7), and (9) through (12), as applicable.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62920, Aug. 1, 2024]




