# § 646.21   What selection criteria does the Secretary use to evaluate an application?

The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application for a new grant:


(a) *Need for the project* (24 points). The Secretary evaluates the need for a Student Support Services project proposed at the applicant institution on the basis of the extent to which the application contains clear evidence of—


(1) (8 points) A high number or percentage, or both, of students enrolled or accepted for enrollment at the applicant institution who meet the eligibility requirements of § 646.3;


(2) (8 points) The academic and other problems that eligible students encounter at the applicant institution; and


(3) (8 points) The differences between eligible Student Support Services students compared to an appropriate group, based on the following indicators:


(i) Retention and graduation rates.


(ii) Grade point averages.


(iii) Graduate and professional school enrollment rates (four-year colleges only).


(iv) Transfer rates from two-year to four-year institutions (two-year colleges only).


(b) *Objectives* (8 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's proposed objectives in the following areas on the basis of the extent to which they are both ambitious, as related to the need data provided under paragraph (a) of this section, and attainable, given the project's plan of operation, budget, and other resources.


(1) (3 points) Retention in postsecondary education.


(2) (2 points) In good academic standing at grantee institution.


(3) Two-year institutions only. (i) (1 point) Certificate or degree completion; and


(ii) (2 points) Certificate or degree completion and transfer to a four-year institution.


(4) Four-year institutions only. (3 points) Completion of a baccalaureate degree.


(c) *Plan of operation* (30 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's plan of operation on the basis of the following:


(1) (3 points) The plan to inform the institutional community (students, faculty, and staff) of the goals, objectives, and services of the project and the eligibility requirements for participation in the project.


(2) (3 points) The plan to identify, select, and retain project participants with academic need.


(3) (4 points) The plan for assessing each individual participant's need for specific services and monitoring his or her academic progress at the institution to ensure satisfactory academic progress.


(4) (10 points) The plan to provide services that address the goals and objectives of the project.


(5) (10 points) The applicant's plan to ensure proper and efficient administration of the project, including the organizational placement of the project; the time commitment of key project staff; the specific plans for financial management, student records management, and personnel management; and, where appropriate, its plan for coordination with other programs for disadvantaged students.


(d) *Institutional commitment* (16 points). The Secretary evaluates the institutional commitment to the proposed project on the basis of the extent to which the applicant has—


(1) (6 points) Committed facilities, equipment, supplies, personnel, and other resources to supplement the grant and enhance project services;


(2) (6 points) Established administrative and academic policies that enhance participants' retention at the institution and improve their chances of graduating from the institution;


(3) (2 points) Demonstrated a commitment to minimize the dependence on student loans in developing financial aid packages for project participants by committing institutional resources to the extent possible; and


(4) (2 points) Assured the full cooperation and support of the Admissions, Student Aid, Registrar and data collection and analysis components of the institution.


(e) *Quality of personnel* (9 points). To determine the quality of personnel the applicant plans to use, the Secretary looks for information that shows—


(1) (3 points) The qualifications required of the project director, including formal education and training in fields related to the objectives of the project, and experience in designing, managing, or implementing Student Support Services or similar projects;


(2) (3 points) The qualifications required of other personnel to be used in the project, including formal education, training, and work experience in fields related to the objectives of the project; and


(3) (3 points) The quality of the applicant's plan for employing personnel who have succeeded in overcoming barriers similar to those confronting the project's target population.


(f) *Budget* (5 points). The Secretary evaluates the extent to which the project budget is reasonable, cost-effective, and adequate to support the project.


(g) *Evaluation plan* (8 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the evaluation plan for the project on the basis of the extent to which—


(1) The applicant's methods for evaluation—


(i) (2 points) Are appropriate to the project and include both quantitative and qualitative evaluation measures; and


(ii) (2 points) Examine in specific and measurable ways, using appropriate baseline data, the success of the project in improving academic achievement, retention and graduation of project participants; and


(2) (4 points) The applicant intends to use the results of an evaluation to make programmatic changes based upon the results of project evaluation.



---

[N] [61 FR 38537, July 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 65791, Oct. 26, 2010]




