# § 299.431   Driver's controls and cab layout.

(a) *Driver controls and cab layout.* Driver controls and cab layout shall replicate that used in the N700, unless otherwise approved by FRA.


(b) *Cab seating.* Each seat provided for an employee regularly assigned to occupy a cab and any floor-mounted seat in the cab shall be securely attached in accordance with § 299.405.


(c) *Cab interior surface.* Sharp edges and corners shall be eliminated from the interior of the cab, and interior surfaces of the cab likely to be impacted by an employee during a collision or derailment shall be padded with shock-absorbent material.


(d) *Cab securement.* Trainset interior cab doors shall be equipped with the following:


(1) A secure and operable device to lock the door from the outside that does not impede egress from the cab; and


(2) A securement device on each cab door that is capable of securing the door from inside of the cab.


(e) *Cab glazing serviceability.* End-facing cab windows of the lead trainset cab shall be free of cracks, breaks, or other conditions that obscure the view of the right-of-way for the crew from their normal position in the cab.


(f) *Floors of cabs, passageways, and compartments.* Floors of cabs, passageways, and compartments shall be kept free from oil, water, waste or any obstruction that creates a slipping, tripping or fire hazard. Floors shall be properly treated to provide secure footing.


(g) *Cab environmental control.* Each lead cab in a trainset shall be heated and air conditioned. The HVAC system shall be inspected and maintained to ensure that it operates properly and meets the railroad's performance standard which shall be defined in the inspection, testing, and maintenance program.


(h) *Trainset cab noise.* Performance standards for the railroad's trainsets—


(1) The average noise levels in the trainset cab shall be less than or equal to 85 dB(A) when the trainset is operating at maximum approved trainset speed as approved under § 299.609(g). Compliance with this paragraph (h)(1) shall be demonstrated during the pre-revenue service system integration testing as required by § 299.607.


(2) The railroad shall not make any alterations during maintenance or modifications to the cab, that cause the average sound level to exceed the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(3) The railroad or manufacturer shall follow the test protocols set forth in appendix B to this part to determine compliance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section, and, to the extent reasonably necessary to evaluate the effect of alterations during maintenance, to determine compliance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section.


(i) *Maintenance of trainset cabs.* (1) If the railroad receives an excessive noise report, and if the condition giving rise to the noise is not required to be immediately corrected under this part, the railroad shall maintain a record of the report, and repair or replace the item identified as substantially contributing to the noise:


(i) On or before the next periodic inspection required by the railroad's inspection, testing, and maintenance program under subpart G; or


(ii) If the railroad determines that the repair or replacement of the item requires significant shop or material resources that are not readily available, at the time of the next major equipment repair commonly used for the particular type of maintenance needed.


(2) The railroad has an obligation to respond to an excessive noise report that a trainset-cab-occupant files. The railroad meets its obligation to respond to an excessive noise report, as set forth in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, if the railroad makes a good faith effort to identify the cause of the reported noise, and where the railroad is successful in determining the cause, if the railroad repairs or replaces the items that cause the noise.


(3)(i) The railroad shall maintain a written or electronic record of any excessive noise report, inspection, test, maintenance, replacement, or repair completed pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section, and the date on which that inspection, test, maintenance, replacement, or repair occurred. If the railroad elects to maintain an electronic record, the railroad must satisfy the conditions listed in § 299.11.


(ii) The railroad shall retain these records for a period of one year.


(iii) The railroad shall establish an internal, auditable, monitorable system that contains these records.


(j) *Trainset sanitation facilities for employees.* Sanitation facilities shall be provided for crewmembers either:


(1) On the trainset, that meet otherwise applicable sanitation standards, which are accessible at frequent intervals during the course of their work shift; or


(2) Ready access to railroad-provided sanitation facilities outside of the trainset.


(k) *Speed indicators.* (1) Each trainset controlling cab shall be equipped with a speed indicator which is—


(i) Accurate within ±2 km/h (1.24 miles per hour) for speed lower than 30 km/h (18.6 miles per hour), then increasing linearly up to ±12 km/h (7.5 miles per hour) at 500 km/h (311 miles per hour); and


(ii) Clearly readable from the driver's normal position under all light conditions.


(2) The speed indicator shall be based on a system of independent on-board speed measurement sources guaranteeing the accuracy level specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section under all operational conditions. The system shall be automatically monitored for inconsistencies and the driver shall be automatically notified of any inconsistency potentially compromising this accuracy level.


(3) The speed indicator shall be calibrated periodically as defined in the railroad's inspection, testing, and maintenance program.


(l) *Cab lights.* (1) Each trainset cab shall have cab lights which will provide sufficient illumination for the control instruments, meters, and gauges to enable the driver to make accurate readings from his or her normal positions in the cab. These lights shall be located, constructed, and maintained so that light shines only on those parts requiring illumination and does not interfere with the driver's vision of the track and signals. Each trainset cab shall also have a conveniently located light that can be readily turned on and off by the driver operating the trainset and that provides sufficient illumination for them to read trainset orders and timetables.


(2) Cab passageways and compartments shall be illuminated.




