# § 982.102   Allocation of budget authority for renewal of expiring consolidated ACC funding increments.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the renewal of consolidated ACC funding increments in the program (as described in § 982.151(a)(2)) that expire after December 31, 1999 (including any assistance that the PHA has attached to units for project-based assistance under 24 CFR part 983). This section implements section 8(dd) of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437f(dd)).


(b) *Renewal Methodology.* HUD will use the following methodology to determine the amount of budget authority to be allocated to a PHA for the renewal of expiring consolidated ACC funding increments in the program, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. If the amount of appropriated funds is not sufficient to provide the full amount of renewal funding for PHAs, as calculated in accordance with this section, HUD may establish a procedure to adjust allocations for the shortfall in funding.


(c) *Determining the amount of budget authority allocated for renewal of an expiring funding increment.* Subject to availability of appropriated funds, as determined by HUD, the amount of budget authority allocated by HUD to a PHA for renewal of each program funding increment that expires during a calendar year will be equal to:


(1) *Number of renewal units.* The number of renewal units assigned to the funding increment (as determined by HUD pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section); multiplied by


(2) *Adjusted annual per unit cost.* The adjusted annual per unit cost (as determined by HUD pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section).


(d) *Determining the number of renewal units*—(1) *Number of renewal units.* HUD will determine the total number of renewal units for a PHA's program as of the last day of the calendar year previous to the calendar year for which renewal funding is calculated. The number of renewal units for a PHA's program will be determined as follows:


(i) *Step 1: Establishing the initial baseline.* HUD will establish a baseline number of units (“baseline”) for each PHA program. The initial baseline equals the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHA program as of December 31, 1999.


(ii) *Step 2: Establishing the adjusted baseline.* The adjusted baseline equals the initial baseline with the following adjustments from the initial baseline as of the last day of the calendar year previous to the calendar year for which renewal funding is calculated:


(A) *Additional units.* HUD will add to the initial baseline any additional units reserved for the PHA after December 31, 1999.


(B) *Units removed.* HUD will subtract from the initial baseline any units de-reserved by HUD from the PHA program after December 31, 1999.


(iii) *Step 3: Determining the number of renewal units.* The number of renewal units equals the adjusted baseline minus the number of units supported by contract funding increments that expire after the end of the calendar year.


(2) *Funding increments.* HUD will assign all units reserved for a PHA program to one or more funding increment(s).


(3) *Correction of errors.* HUD may adjust the number of renewal units to correct errors.


(e) *Determining the adjusted per unit cost.* HUD will determine the PHA's adjusted per unit cost when HUD processes the allocation of renewal funding for an expiring contract funding increment. The adjusted per unit cost calculated will be determined as follows:


(1) *Step 1: Determining monthly program expenditure*—(i) *Use of most recent HUD-approved year end statement.* HUD will determine the PHA's monthly per unit program expenditure for the HCV program (including project-based assistance under such program) under the consolidated ACC with HUD using data from the PHA's most recent HUD-approved year end statement.


(ii) *Monthly program expenditure.* The monthly program expenditure equals:


(A) *Total program expenditure.* The PHA's total program expenditure (the total of housing assistance payments and administrative costs) for the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement; divided by


(B) *Total unit months leased.* The total of unit months leased for the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement.


(2) *Step 2: Determining annual per unit cost.* HUD will determine the PHA's annual per unit cost. The annual per unit cost equals the monthly program expenditures (as determined under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section) multiplied by 12.


(3) *Step 3: Determining adjusted annual per unit cost.* (i) HUD will determine the PHA's adjusted annual per unit cost. The adjusted annual per unit cost equals the annual per unit cost (as determined under paragraph (e)(2) of this section) multiplied cumulatively by the applicable published Section 8 housing assistance payments program annual adjustment factors in effect during the period from the end of the PHA fiscal year covered by the approved year end statement to the time when HUD processes the allocation of renewal funding.


(ii) *Use of annual adjustment factor applicable to PHA jurisdiction.* For this purpose, HUD will use the annual adjustment factor from the notice published annually in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to part 888 that is applicable to the jurisdiction of the PHA. For a PHA whose jurisdiction spans multiple annual adjustment factor areas, HUD will use the highest applicable annual adjustment factor.


(iii) *Use of annual adjustment factors in effect subsequent to most recent Year End Statement.* HUD will use the Annual Adjustment Factors in effect during the time period subsequent to the time covered by the most recent HUD approved Year End Statement and the time of the processing of the contract funding increment to be renewed.


(iv) *Special circumstances.* At its discretion, HUD may modify the adjusted annual per unit cost based on receipt of a modification request from a PHA. The modification request must demonstrate that because of special circumstances application of the annual adjustment factor will not provide an accurate adjusted annual per unit cost.


(4) *Correction of errors.* HUD may correct for errors in the adjusted per unit cost.


(f) *Consolidated ACC amendment to add renewal funding.* HUD will reserve allocated renewal funding available to the PHA within a reasonable time prior to the expiration of the funding increment to be renewed and establish a new expiration date one-year from the date of such expiration.


(g) *Modification of allocation of budget authority*—(1) *HUD authority to conform PHA program costs with PHA program finances through Federal Register notice.* In the event that a PHA's costs incurred threaten to exceed budget authority and allowable reserves, HUD reserves the right, through _Federal Register_ notice, to bring PHA program costs and the number of families served, in line with PHA program finances.


(2) *HUD authority to limit increases of per unit cost through Federal Register notice.* HUD may, by _Federal Register_ notice, limit the amount or percentage of increases in the adjusted annual per unit cost to be used in calculating the allocation of budget authority.


(3) *HUD authority to limit decreases to per unit costs through Federal Register notice.* HUD may, by _Federal Register_ notice, limit the amount or percentage of decreases in the adjusted annual per unit cost to be used in calculating the allocation of budget authority.


(4) *Contents of Federal Register notice.* If HUD publishes a _Federal Register_ notice pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1), (g)(2) or (g)(3) of this section, it will describe the rationale, circumstances and procedures under which such modifications are implemented. Such circumstances and procedures shall, be consistent with the objective of enabling PHAs and HUD to meet program goals and requirements including but not limited to:


(i) Deconcentration of poverty and expanding housing opportunities;


(ii) Reasonable rent burden;


(iii) Income targeting;


(iv) Consistency with applicable consolidated plan(s);


(v) Rent reasonableness;


(vi) Program efficiency and economy;


(vii) Service to additional households within budgetary limitations; and


(viii) Service to the adjusted baseline number of families.


(5) *Public consultation before issuance of Federal Register notice.* HUD will design and undertake informal public consultation prior to issuing _Federal Register_ notices pursuant to paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section.


(h) *Ability to prorate and synchronize contract funding increments.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, HUD may prorate the amount of budget authority allocated for the renewal of funding increments that expire on different dates throughout the calendar year. HUD may use such proration to synchronize the expiration dates of funding increments under the PHA's consolidated ACC.


(i) *Reallocation of budget authority.* If a PHA has performance deficiencies, such as a failure to adequately lease units, HUD may reallocate some of its budget authority to other PHAs. If HUD determines to reallocate budget authority, it will reduce the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHA program of the PHA whose budget authority is being reallocated and increase the number of units reserved by HUD for the PHAs whose programs are receiving the benefit of the reallocation, so that such PHAs can issue vouchers. HUD will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ that will describe the circumstances and procedures for reallocating budget authority pursuant to this paragraph.



---

[N] [64 FR 56887, Oct. 21, 1999; 65 FR 16818, Mar. 30, 2000; 80 FR 8246, Feb. 17, 2015]




