# § 501.103   Use by outside persons or organizations.

(a) Replicas and reproductions of the seal of the Federal Maritime Commission, physical or digital, by persons and organizations outside of the Commission may be made only with the Commission's prior written approval. Persons and organizations outside of the Commission are prohibited from using a Commission embossing seal.


(b) Requests by any person or organization outside of the Commission for permission to use the seal must be made in writing electronically to *secretary@fmc.gov.* The request must specify in detail the exact use to be made. Any permission granted will apply only to the specific use for which it was granted and is not permission for any other use.


(c) The decision whether to grant such a request is made on a case-by-case basis, with consideration of all relevant factors, which may include: the benefit or cost to the Government of granting the request; the unintended appearance of endorsement or authentication by the Commission; the potential for misuse; the effect upon Commission security; the reputability of the use; the extent of the control by the Commission over the ultimate use; and the extent of control by the Commission over distribution of any products or publications bearing the seal.


(d) Use of the seal shall be for informational purposes. The seal may not be used on any article or in any manner which may discredit the seal or reflect unfavorably upon the Commission, or which implies Commission endorsement of commercial products or services, or of the users' policies or activities. All agreements must benefit the Commission; tie to a key communication or operational objective; and demonstrate the ability for significant impact. The Commission reserves the right to cancel such an agreement at any time. Specifically, permission may not be granted under this section for nonofficial use—


(1) On souvenir or novelty items of an expendable nature;


(2) On toys, gifts, or premiums;


(3) As a non-Commission letterhead design; or


(4) On menus, matchbook covers, calendars, or similar items.


(e) Use of the seal for any purpose other than as prescribed in this section is prohibited, except that the Secretary may authorize the use of the seal by outside individuals or organizations, on a case-by-case basis, for purposes other than those prescribed when the Secretary, in consultation with the General Counsel, deems such use to be appropriate.






