# ยง 137.220   Scope.

The owner or managing operator of a towing vessel that has selected the TSMS option must examine or must have examined the following systems, equipment, and procedures to ensure that the vessel and its equipment are suitable for the service for which the vessel is certificated:


(a) *TSMS.* (1) Verify that the vessel is enrolled in a TSMS that complies with part 138 of this subchapter.


(2) Verify that the policies and procedures applicable to the vessel are available to the crew.


(3) Verify that internal and external audits are conducted in accordance with the approved TSMS.


(4) Verify that recordkeeping requirements are met.


(b) *Hull structure and appurtenances.* Verify that the vessel complies with part 144 of this subchapter, examine the condition of, and where appropriate, witness the operation of the following:


(1) All accessible parts of the exterior and interior of the hull, the watertight bulkheads, and weather decks.


(2) All watertight closures in the hull, decks, and bulkheads, including through hull fittings and sea valves.


(3) Superstructure, masts, and similar arrangements constructed on the hull.


(4) Railings and bulwarks and their attachments to the hull structure.


(5) The presence of appropriate guards or rails.


(6) All weathertight closures above the weather deck and the provisions for drainage of sea water from the exposed decks.


(7) Watertight doors, verifying local and remote operation and proper fit.


(8) All accessible interior spaces to ensure that they are adequately ventilated and drained, and that means of escape are maintained and operate as intended.


(9) Vessel markings.


(c) *Machinery, fuel, and piping systems.* Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements contained in part 143 of this subchapter, examine the condition of, and where appropriate, witness the operation of:


(1) Engine control mechanisms, including primary and alternate means, if the vessel is equipped with alternate means, of starting machinery, directional controls, and emergency shutdowns;


(2) All machinery essential to the routine operation of the vessel, including generators and cooling systems;


(3) All fuel systems, including fuel tanks, tank vents, piping, and pipe fittings;


(4) All valves in fuel lines, including local and remote operation;


(5) All overboard discharge and intake valves and watertight bulkhead pipe penetration valves;


(6) Means provided for pumping bilges; and


(7) Machinery shut-downs and alarms.


(d) *Steering systems.* Examine the condition of, and where appropriate, witness the operation of:


(1) Steering systems and equipment ensuring smooth operation;


(2) Auxiliary means of steering, if installed; and


(3) Alarms.


(e) *Pressure vessels and boilers.* Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements in part 143 of this subchapter.


(f) *Electrical.* Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements in part 143 of this subchapter, examine the condition of, and where appropriate, witness the operation of:


(1) All cables, as far as practicable, without undue disturbance of the cable or electrical apparatus;


(2) Circuit breakers, including testing by manual operation;


(3) Fuses, including ensuring the ratings of fuses are suitable for the service intended;


(4) All generators, motors, lighting fixtures, and circuit interrupting devices;


(5) Batteries including security of stowage;


(6) Electrical equipment, which operates as part of or in conjunction with a fire detection or alarm system installed onboard, to ensure operation in case of fire; and


(7) All emergency electrical systems, including any automatic systems if installed.


(g) *Lifesaving.* Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements contained in part 141 of this subchapter and examine the condition of lifesaving equipment and systems as follows:


(1) Verify that the vessel is equipped with the required number of lifejackets, work vests, and immersion suits.


(2) Verify the serviceable condition of each lifejacket, work vest, and marine buoyant device.


(3) Verify that each item of lifesaving equipment found to be defective has been repaired or replaced.


(4) Verify that each lifejacket, other personal floatation device, or other lifesaving device found to be defective and incapable of repair was destroyed or removed.


(5) Verify that each piece of expired lifesaving equipment has been replaced.


(6) Examine each survival craft and launching appliance in accordance with subchapter W of this chapter.


(7) Verify the servicing of each inflatable liferaft, inflatable buoyant apparatus, and inflatable lifejacket as required by subchapter W of this chapter.


(8) Verify the proper servicing of each hydrostatic release unit, other than a disposable hydrostatic release unit, as required under subchapter W of this chapter.


(9) Verify that the vessel's crew conducted abandon ship and man overboard drills under simulated emergency conditions.


(h) *Fire protection.* Verify that the vessel complies with applicable requirements contained in part 142 of this subchapter, and examine or verify the fire protection equipment and systems as follows:


(1) Verify that the vessel is equipped with the required fire protection equipment for the vessel's route and service.


(2) Verify that the inspection, testing, and maintenance as required by ยง 142.240 of this subchapter are performed.


(3) Verify that the training requirements of ยง 142.245 of this subchapter are carried out.


(i) *Towing gear.* Verify that the vessel complies with the applicable requirements in parts 140 of this subchapter, and examine or verify the condition of, and where appropriate, the operation of the following:


(1) Deck machinery including controls, guards, alarms and safety features.


(2) Hawsers, wires, bridles, push gear, and related vessel fittings for damage or wear.


(3) Verify that the vessel complies with 33 CFR part 164, if applicable.


(j) *Navigation equipment.* Verify that the vessel complies with the applicable requirements in part 140 of this subchapter, and examine or verify the condition of and, where appropriate, the operation of the following:


(1) Navigation systems and equipment.


(2) Navigation lights.


(3) Navigation charts or maps appropriate to the area of operation and corrected up to date.


(4) Examine the operation of equipment and systems necessary to maintain visibility through the pilothouse windows.


(5) Verify that the vessel complies with 33 CFR part 164, if applicable.


(k) *Sanitary examination.* Examine the quarters, toilet and washing spaces, galleys, serving pantries, lockers, and similar spaces to ensure that they are clean and decently habitable.


(l) *Unsafe practices.* (1) Verify that all observed unsafe practices, fire hazards, and other hazardous situations are corrected, and that all required guards and protective devices are in satisfactory condition.


(2) Verify that bilges and other spaces are free of excessive accumulation of oil, trash, debris, or other matter that might create a fire hazard, clog bilge pumping systems, or block emergency escapes.


(m) *Vessel personnel.* Verify that the:


(1) Vessel is manned in accordance with the vessel's COI;


(2) Crew is maintaining vessel logs and records in accordance with applicable regulations and the TSMS appropriate to the vessel;


(3) Crew is complying with the crew safety and personnel health requirements of part 140 of this subchapter; and


(4) Crew has received training required by parts 140, 141, and 142 of this subchapter.


(n) *Prevention of oil pollution.* Examine the vessel to ensure compliance with the oil pollution prevention requirements in ยง 140.655 of this subchapter.


(o) *Miscellaneous systems and equipment.* Examine all items in the vessel's outfit, such as ground tackle, markings, and placards that are required to be carried in accordance with the regulations in this subchapter.




