# § 206.191   Duplication of benefits.

(a) *Purpose.* This section establishes the policies for implementing the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5155, entitled Duplication of Benefits. This section relates to assistance for individuals and families.


(b) *Government policy.* (1) Federal agencies providing disaster assistance under the Act or under their own authorities triggered by the Act, must cooperate to prevent and rectify duplication of benefits, according to the general policy guidance of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The agencies must establish appropriate agency policies and procedures to prevent duplication of benefits.


(2) Major disaster and emergency assistance provided to individuals and families under the Act, and comparable disaster assistance provided by States, local governments, and disaster assistance organizations, is not considered as income or a resource when determining eligibility for or benefit levels under federally funded income assistance or resource-tested programs. Examples of federally funded income assistance or resource-tested programs are the food stamp program and welfare assistance programs.


(c) *FEMA policy.* It is FEMA policy:


(1) To prevent duplication of benefits between its own programs and insurance benefits, and between its own programs and other disaster assistance. Assistance under the Act may be provided in instances where the applicant has not received other benefits to which he/she may be entitled by the time of application and if the applicant agrees to repay all duplicated assistance to the agency providing the Federal assistance;


(2) To examine a debt resulting from duplication to determine that the likelihood of collecting the debt and the best interests of the Federal Government justify taking the necessary recovery actions to remedy duplication which has occurred when other assistance has become available;


(3) To assure uniformity in preventing duplication of benefits, by consulting with other Federal agencies and by performing selected quality control reviews, that the other disaster relief agencies establish and follow policies and procedures to prevent and remedy duplication among their programs, other programs, and insurance benefits; and


(4) To coordinate the effort of agencies providing assistance so that each agency understands the prevention and remedial policies of the others and is able to fulfill its own responsibilities regarding duplication of benefits.


(d) *Guidance to prevent duplication of benefits.* (1) Delivery sequence. FEMA provides the following policy and procedural guidance to ensure uniformity in preventing duplication of benefits.


(i) Duplication occurs when an agency has provided assistance which was the primary responsibility of another agency, and the agency with primary responsibility later provides assistance. A delivery sequence establishes the order in which disaster relief agencies and organizations provide assistance. The specific sequence, in accordance with the mandates of the assistance programs, is to be generally followed in the delivery of assistance.


(ii) When the delivery sequence has been disrupted, the disrupting agency is responsible for rectifying the duplication. The delivery sequence pertains to that period of time in the recovery phase when most of the traditional disaster assistance programs are available.


(2) The delivery sequence is, in order of delivery:


(i) Volunteer agencies' emergency assistance (except expendable items such as clothes, linens, and basic kitchenware); insurance (including flood insurance);

 


(ii) Housing assistance pursuant to the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5174;


(iii) Other Needs assistance, pursuant to the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5174;


(iv) Small Business Administration and Department of Agriculture disaster loans;


(v) Volunteer agencies' “additional assistance” programs; and


(vi) The “Cora Brown Fund.”


(3) Two significant points about the delivery sequence are that:


(i) Each assistance agency should, in turn, offer and be responsible for delivering assistance without regard to duplication with a program later in the sequence; and


(ii) The sequence itself determines what types of assistance can duplicate other assistance (i.e., a Federal program can duplicate insurance benefits, however, insurance benefits cannot duplicate the Federal assistance). An agency's position in the sequence determines the order in which it should provide assistance and what other resources it must consider before it does so.


(4) If following the delivery sequence concept would adversely affect the timely receipt of essential assistance by an individual or household, an agency may offer assistance which is the primary responsibility of another agency. There also may be cases when an agency (Agency B) delivers assistance which is normally the primary responsibility of another agency (Agency A) because Agency A has, for good cause, denied assistance. After the assistance is delivered, Agency A reopens the case. If the primary response Agency A then provides assistance, that Agency A is responsible for coordinating with Agency B to either:


(i) Assist Agency B in preventing the duplication of benefits, or


(ii) In the case where the individual or household has refused assistance from Agency A, Agency A must notify Agency B that it must recover assistance previously provided.


(e) *Program guidance*—(1) *Programs under the Act vs. other agency assistance.* (i) In making an eligibility determination, FEMA, in the case of federally operated programs, or the State, in the case of State operated programs, must determine whether assistance is the primary responsibility of another agency to provide, according to the delivery sequence; and determine whether that primary response agency can provide assistance in a timely way.


(ii) If it is determined that timely assistance can be provided by the agency with primary responsibility, refrain from providing assistance under the Act. If it is determined that assistance from the agency with primary responsibility will be delayed, assistance under the Act may be provided, but then must be recovered from the applicant when the other assistance becomes available.


(2) *Programs under the Act vs. insurance.* In making an eligibility determination, FEMA or the State must:


(i) Remind the applicant about his/her responsibility to pursue an adequate settlement. The applicant must provide information concerning insurance recoveries.


(ii) Determine whether the applicant's insurance settlement will be sufficient to cover the loss or need without disaster assistance; and


(iii) Determine whether insurance benefits (including flood insurance) will be provided in a timely way. Where flood insurance is involved, FEMA must coordinate with the Federal Insurance Administration. The purpose of this coordination is to obtain information about flood insurance coverage and settlements.


(3) *Random sample.* Each disaster assistance agency is responsible for preventing and rectifying duplication of benefits under the general authority of the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5155. To determine whether duplication has occurred and established procedures have been followed, FEMA must, within 90 days after the close of the disaster assistance program's application period, for selected disaster declarations, examine on a random sample basis, FEMA's and other government and voluntary agencies' case files and document the findings in writing.


(4) *Duplication when assistance under the Act is involved.* If duplication is discovered, FEMA must determine whether the duplicating agency followed its own remedial procedures.


(i) If the duplicating agency followed its procedures and was successful in correcting the duplication, FEMA will take no further action. If the agency was not successful in correcting the duplication, and FEMA is satisfied that the duplicating agency followed its remedial procedures, no further action will be taken.


(ii) If the duplicating agency did not follow its duplication of benefits procedures, or FEMA is not satisfied that the procedures were followed in an acceptable manner, then FEMA must provide an opportunity for the agency to take the required corrective action. If the agency cannot fulfill its responsibilities for remedial action, FEMA must notify the recipient of the excess assistance, and after examining the debt, then as appropriate, take those recovery actions in conjunction with agency representatives for each identified case in the random sample (or larger universe, at FEMA's discretion).


(5) *Duplication when assistance under other authorities is involved.* When the random sample shows evidence that duplication has occurred and corrective action is required, FEMA must urge the duplicating agency to follow its own procedures to take corrective action, and must work with the agency toward that end. Under its authority in the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5155, FEMA must require the duplicating agency to report to FEMA on the agency's attempt to correct the duplications identified in the sample.


(f) *Recovering FEMA funds: debt collection.* Funds due to FEMA are recovered in accordance with the Department of Homeland Security's Debt Collection Regulations (6 CFR part 11—Claims) and the Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (31 CFR chapter IX). Section 1216 of the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018, 42 U.S.C. 5174a, also provides FEMA the authority to waive debts owed by individuals and households who received assistance under subpart D of this part.


(g) *Severability.* Any provision of this section held to be invalid or unenforceable as applied to any person or circumstance should be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to the provision permitted by law, including as applied to persons not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances, unless such holding is that the provision of this section is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision should be severable from the remainder of this section and should not affect the remainder thereof.



---

[N] [54 FR 11615, Mar. 21, 1989, as amended at 67 FR 61460, Sept. 30, 2002; 74 FR 15350, Apr. 3, 2009; 89 FR 4124, Jan. 22, 2024] 




