# ยง 1631.31   Definitions.

*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of a Board employee that is issued in a legal proceeding.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Board or his or her delegatee.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


*Board employee or employee* means:


(1) Any current or former officer or employee of the Board;


(2) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the Board or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the Board; and


(3) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Board, whether formal or informal.


(4) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by the Board and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the Board.


*Records or official records and information* mean:


(1) All documents and materials which are Board records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552;


(2) All other documents and materials contained in Board files; and


(3) All other information or materials acquired by a Board employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, recorded interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.




