# § 447.51   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Alternative non-emergency services provider* means a Medicaid provider, such as a physician's office, health care clinic, community health center, hospital outpatient department, or similar provider that can provide clinically appropriate services in a timely manner.


Contract health service means any health service that is:


(1) Delivered based on a referral by, or at the expense of, an Indian health program; and


(2) Provided by a public or private medical provider or hospital that is not a provider or hospital of the IHS or any other Indian health program


*Cost sharing* means any copayment, coinsurance, deductible, or other similar charge.


*Emergency services* has the same meaning as in § 438.114 of this chapter.


*Federal poverty level (FPL)* means the Federal poverty level updated periodically in the _Federal Register_ by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the authority of 42 U.S.C. 9902(2).


*Indian* means any individual defined at 25 U.S.C. 1603(13), 1603(28), or 1679(a), or who has been determined eligible as an Indian, under 42 CFR 136.12. This means the individual:


(1) Is a member of a Federally-recognized Indian tribe;


(2) Resides in an urban center and meets one or more of the following four criteria:


(i) Is a member of a tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member;


(ii) Is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native;


(iii) Is considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian for any purpose; or


(iv) Is determined to be an Indian under regulations promulgated by the Secretary;


(3) Is considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian for any purpose; or


(4) Is considered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to be an Indian for purposes of eligibility for Indian health care services, including as a California Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, or other Alaska Native.


*Indian health care provider* means a health care program operated by the Indian Health Service (IHS) or by an Indian Tribe, Tribal Organization, or Urban Indian Organization (otherwise known as an I/T/U) as those terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1603).


*Inpatient stay* means the services received during a continuous period of inpatient days in either a single medical institution or multiple medical institutions, and also includes a return to an inpatient medical institution after a brief period when the return is for treatment of a condition that was present in the initial period. Inpatient has the same meaning as in § 440.2 of this chapter.


*Non-emergency services* means any care or services that are not considered emergency services as defined in this section. This does not include any services furnished in a hospital emergency department that are required to be provided as an appropriate medical screening examination or stabilizing examination and treatment under section 1867 of the Act.


*Outpatient services* for purposes of imposing cost sharing means any service or supply not meeting the definition of an inpatient stay.


*Preferred drugs* means drugs that the state has identified on a publicly available schedule as being determined by a pharmacy and therapeutics committee for clinical efficacy as the most cost effective drugs within each therapeutically equivalent or therapeutically similar class of drugs, or all drugs within such a class if the agency does not differentiate between preferred and non-preferred drugs.


*Premium* means any enrollment fee, premium, or other similar charge.




