# § 1037.115   Other requirements.

Vehicles required to meet the emission standards of this part must meet the following additional requirements, except as noted elsewhere in this part:


(a) *Adjustable parameters.* Vehicles that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing. See 40 CFR 1068.50 for general provisions related to adjustable parameters. You must ensure safe vehicle operation throughout the practically adjustable range of each adjustable parameter, including consideration of production tolerances. Note that adjustable roof fairings are deemed not to be adjustable parameters.


(b) *Prohibited controls.* You may not design your vehicles with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, this would apply if the vehicle emits a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Defeat devices.* 40 CFR 1068.101 prohibits the use of defeat devices.


(e) *Air conditioning leakage*. Loss of refrigerant from your air conditioning systems may not exceed a total leakage rate of 11.0 grams per year or a percent leakage rate of 1.50 percent per year, whichever is greater. Calculate the total leakage rate in g/year as specified in 40 CFR 86.1867-12(a). Calculate the percent leakage rate as: [total leakage rate (g/yr)] ÷ [total refrigerant capacity (g)] × 100. Round your percent leakage rate to the nearest one-hundredth of a percent. This paragraph (e) applies for all refrigerants.


(1) This paragraph (e) is intended to address air conditioning systems for which the primary purpose is to cool the driver compartment. This would generally include all cab-complete pickups and vans. Similarly, it does not apply for self-contained air conditioning used to cool passengers or refrigeration units used to cool cargo on vocational vehicles. For purposes of this paragraph (e), a self-contained system is an enclosed unit with its own evaporator and condenser even if it draws power from the engine.


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (e), “refrigerant capacity” is the total mass of refrigerant recommended by the vehicle manufacturer as representing a full charge. Where full charge is specified as a pressure, use good engineering judgment to convert the pressure and system volume to a mass.


(3) If air conditioning systems are designed such that a compliance demonstration under 40 CFR 86.1867-12(a) is impossible or impractical, you may ask to use alternative means to demonstrate that your air conditioning system achieves an equivalent level of control.


(f) *Battery durability monitor.* Model year 2030 and later battery electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles must meet the following requirements to estimate and monitor usable battery energy for batteries serving as Rechargeable Energy Storage Systems:


(1) Create a customer-accessible system that monitors and displays the vehicle's State of Certified Energy (*SOCE*) with an accuracy of ±5%. Display the *SOCE* from paragraph (f)(2) of this section as a percentage expressed to the nearest whole number. Update the display as needed to reflect the current value of *SOCE.*

(2) Determine *SOCE* using the following equation:


(3) For battery electric vehicles, ask us to approve a procedure you develop to determine *UBE* that meets the following requirements:


(i) Measure *UBE* by discharging the battery at a constant power that is representative of the vehicle cruising on the highway. For many HDV, the power to cruise on the highway would result in a C-rate between 
1/6 C and 
1/2 C. Where C-rate is a measure of the rate at which a battery is discharged or charged relative to its maximum capacity and has units of inverse hours. For example, at a 2 C discharge rate, it would take 0.5 hours to fully discharge a battery. For test procedures that involve driving a vehicle, you may discharge the battery at variable rates until the last portion of the test, consistent with good engineering judgment.


(ii) The test is complete when the battery is not able to maintain the target power.


(iii) Use the same procedure for measuring certified and aged *UBE.*

(iv) Measurements to determine power must meet the requirements in 40 CFR 1036.545(a)(10).


(4) For plug-hybrid electric vehicles, determine *UBE* as described in 40 CFR 1036.545(p), or you may use a procedure that meets the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 74048, Oct. 25, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 34459, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4637, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29771, Apr. 22, 2024]




