# § 35.940   Special requirements for insular areas.

If a dwelling unit receiving Federal assistance under a program covered by this subpart is located in an insular area, the requirements of this section shall apply and the requirements of § 35.930 shall not apply. All other sections of this subpart J shall apply. The insular area shall conduct the following activities for the dwelling unit, common areas servicing the dwelling unit, and the exterior surfaces of the building in which the dwelling unit is located:


(a) *Residential property receiving an average of up to and including $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.* (1) Implement safe work practices during rehabilitation work in accordance with § 35.1350 and repair any paint that is disturbed by rehabilitation.


(2) After completion of any rehabilitation disturbing painted surfaces, perform a clearance examination of the worksite(s) in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance shall be achieved before residents are allowed to occupy the worksite(s). Clearance is not required if rehabilitation did not disturb painted surfaces of a total area more than that set forth in § 35.1350(b).


(b) *Residential property receiving an average of more than $5,000 per unit in Federal rehabilitation assistance.* (1) Before beginning rehabilitation, perform a visual assessment of all painted surfaces in order to identify deteriorated paint.


(2) Perform paint stabilization of each deteriorated paint surface and each painted surface being disturbed by rehabilitation, in accordance with §§ 35.1330(a) and (b).


(3) After completion of all paint stabilization, perform a clearance examination of the affected dwelling units and common areas in accordance with § 35.1340. Clearance shall be achieved before residents are allowed to occupy rooms or spaces in which paint stabilization has been performed.




