# § 63.9590   What emission limitations and operating limits must I meet?

(a) You must meet each emission limit in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart that applies to you by the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.9583.


(b) You must meet each applicable operating limit for control devices in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section that applies to you by the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.9583. You are not required to establish and comply with operating limits for control devices used to reduce mercury emissions when you are using a CEMS to monitor and demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limit in table 2 to this subpart.


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for each wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average pressure drop and daily average scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established in § 63.9622.


(2) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average scrubber water flow rate and either the daily average fan amperage (a surrogate for fan speed as revolutions per minute) or the daily average pressure drop at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average scrubber water flow rate and the daily average fan amperage (a surrogate for fan speed as revolutions per minute) at or above the minimum levels established in § 63.9622.


(3) For each dry electrostatic precipitator (ESP) applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the operating limits in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Maintain the 6-minute average opacity of emissions exiting the control device stack at or below the level established during the initial performance test.


(ii) Maintain the daily average secondary voltage and daily average secondary current for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.


(4) For each wet ESP applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the operating limits in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Maintain the daily average secondary voltage for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.


(ii) Maintain the daily average stack outlet temperature at or below the maximum levels established during the initial performance test.


(iii) Maintain the daily average water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.


(5) For each wet scrubber and wet ESP used to meet the hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride emission limits in table 3 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average scrubber water flow rate and pH greater than or equal to the operating limits established for these parameters established in § 63.9622.


(6) For each activated carbon injection (ACI) system used to meet the mercury emission limit in table 2 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average activated carbon injection rate greater than or equal to the average activated carbon injection rate established during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit. In addition, you must maintain the daily average carrier gas flow rate greater than or equal to the average carrier gas flow rate established during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.


(7) For each dry sorbent injection (DSI) system used to meet the hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride emission limits in table 3 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average dry sorbent injection rate greater than or equal to the average dry sorbent injection rate established during the most recent performance test. demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit. In addition, you must maintain the daily average carrier gas flow rate greater than or equal to the average carrier gas flow rate established during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit.


(8) If you use any air pollution control device other than a baghouse, wet scrubber, dynamic scrubber, dry ESP, wet ESP, ACI, or DSI, you must submit a site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.9631(f).


(c) You may petition the Administrator for approval of alternatives to the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section as allowed under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.





---

[N] [68 FR 61888, Oct. 30, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 45492, July 28, 2020; 89 FR 16425, Mar. 6, 2024]




