# ยง 880.507   Default by PHA and/or owner (private-owner/PHA projects).

(a) *Rights of Owner if PHA defaults under Agreement or Contract.* The ACC, the Agreement and the Contract will provide that, in the event of failure of the PHA to comply with the Agreement or Contract with the owner, the owner will have the right, if he is not in default, to demand that HUD investigate. HUD will first give the PHA a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action. If HUD determines that a substantial default exists, HUD will assume the PHA's rights and obligations under the Agreement or Contract and meet the obligations of the PHA under the Agreement or Contract including the obligations to enter into the Contract. 


(b) *Rights of HUD if PHA defaults under ACC.* The ACC will provide that, if the PHA fails to comply with any of its obligations, HUD may determine that there is a substantial default and require the PHA to assign to HUD all of its rights and interests under the Contract; however, HUD will continue to pay annual contributions in accordance with the terms of the ACC and the Contract. Before determining that a PHA is in substantial default, HUD will give the PHA a reasonable opportunity to take corrective action.


(c) *Rights of PHA and HUD if Owner defaults under Contract.* (1) The Contract will provide that if the PHA determines that the owner is in default under the Contract, the PHA will notify the owner and lender, with a copy to HUD, (i) of the actions required to be taken to cure the default, (ii) of the remedies to be applied by the PHA including specific performance under the Contract, abatement of housing assistance payments and recovery of overpayments, where appropriate, and (iii) that if he fails to cure the default, the PHA has the right to terminate the Contract or to take other corrective action, in its discretion or as directed by HUD.


(2) If the PHA is the lender, the Contract will also provide that HUD has an independent right to determine whether the owner is in default and to take corrective action and apply appropriate remedies, except that HUD will not have the right to terminate the Contract without proceeding in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. 




