# § 90.1019   Eligibility for partitioned licenses.

(a) *Eligibility.* Parties seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request authorization for partial assignment of a license pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter. The Commission will consider applications that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation.


(1) Phase I non-nationwide licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum after constructing their systems and placing their in operation or commencing service in accordance with the provisions in § 90.725(f) of this part.


(2) Phase I nationwide licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum after constructing at least 40 percent of the geographic areas designated in their applications in accordance with the provisions in § 90.725(a) of this part.


(3) Phase II licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum at any time following the grant of their licenses.


(4) Phase I and Phase II licensees authorized to operate on Channels 161 through 170 or Channels 181 through 185 are not eligible to partition their geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum.


(b) *Partitioning.* In the case of partitioning, applicants and licensees must file FCC Form 603 pursuant to § 1.948 and list the partitioned service area on a schedule to the application. The geographic coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83). In the case where an FCC-recognized service area or county lines are utilized, applicants need only list the specific area(s) through use of FCC designations or county names that constitute the partitioned area.


(c) *License term.* The license term for a partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original licensee's license term.



---

[N] [63 FR 49295, Sept. 15, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 68973, Dec. 14, 1998; 65 FR 39560, June 27, 2000; 82 FR 41549, Sept. 1, 2017]




