# ยง 113.34   Detection of hemagglutinating viruses.

The test for detection of hemagglutinating viruses provided in this section shall be conducted when such a test is prescribed in an applicable Standard Requirement or in the filed Outline of Production for the product. 


(a) Final container samples of completed product rehydrated as recommended on the label shall be used as inoculum: *Provided,* That poultry vaccines distributed without diluent shall be rehydrated with 30 ml of sterile distilled water per 1,000 doses and used as inoculum. When one or more fractions are to be used in combination with Newcastle Disease Vaccine, test samples shall be collected from bulk suspensions of each prior to mixing with the Newcastle Disease Vaccine. 


(b) Each of ten 9- to 10-day-old embryonating eggs from Newcastle disease susceptible flocks shall be inoculated into the allantoic cavity with 0.2 ml of the undiluted inoculum. 


(1) Test five uninoculated embryos of the same age and from the same flock as those used for the test as negative controls. 


(2) Test an allantoic fluid sample of Newcastle disease virus as a positive control. 


(c) Three to five days post-inoculation, a sample of allantoic fluid from each egg shall be tested separately by a rapid plate test for hemagglutinating activity using a 0.5 percent suspension of fresh chicken red blood cells. 


(d) If the results are inconclusive, one or two blind passages shall be made using fluids from each of the original test eggs. Fluids from dead and live embryos may be pooled separately for inoculum in these passages. 


(e) If hemagglutinating activity attributable to the product is observed, the serial is unsatisfactory. 



---

[N] [38 FR 29889, Oct. 30, 1973] 




