# ยง 2805.16   If I hold a grant, what cost recovery fees must I pay?

(a) You must pay a fee to the BLM for the reasonable costs the Federal Government incurs in processing, inspecting, and monitoring the construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of the project and protection and rehabilitation of the public lands that your grant covers. Instead of paying the BLM a fee for the reasonable costs incurred by other Federal agencies in processing or monitoring your grant, you may pay the other Federal agencies directly for such costs. The BLM will annually adjust the Category 1 through 4 cost recovery fees in the manner described at ยง 2804.14(b). The BLM will update Category 5 cost recovery fees as specified in the applicable Master Agreement. Category 6 cost recovery fees are addressed at ยง 2805.17(c). The BLM categorizes the cost recovery fees based on the estimated number of work hours necessary to process and monitor your grant. Category 1 through 4 cost recovery fees are not refundable. The Federal work hours for each category and their descriptions are found at ยง 2804.14(b).


(b) The BLM will update the cost recovery fee schedule for Categories 1 through 4 each calendar year, based on the previous year's change in the IPD-GDP, as measured second quarter to second quarter and rounded to the nearest dollar. The BLM will update Category 5 cost recovery fees as specified in the applicable Master Agreement.


(c) You may obtain a copy of the current year's cost recovery fee schedule from any BLM state, district, or field office, or by writing: Attention to the Division of Lands, Realty and Cadastral Survey, U.S. Department of the Interior, Director (HQ-350), Bureau of Land Management, 1849 C Street NW, Mail Stop 2134LM, Washington, DC 20240. The BLM also posts the current cost recovery fee schedule at *https://www.blm.gov.*


---

[N] [89 FR 25963, Apr., 12, 2024]








