# ยง 152.30   Pesticides that may be transferred, sold, or distributed without registration.

An unregistered pesticide, or a pesticide whose registration has been cancelled or suspended, may be dis-tributed or sold, or otherwise transferred, to the extent described by this section.


(a) *A pesticide transferred between registered establishments operated by the same producer.* An unregistered pesticide may be transferred between registered establishments operated by the same producer. The pesticide as transferred must be labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(b) *A pesticide transferred between registered establishments not operated by the same producer.* An unregistered pesticide may be transferred between registered establishments not operated by the same producer if:


(1) The transfer is solely for the purpose of further formulation, packaging, or labeling into a product that is registered;


(2) Each active ingredient in the pesticide, at the time of transfer, is present as a result of incorporation into the pesticide of either:


(i) A registered product; or


(ii) A pesticide that is produced by the registrant of the final product; and


(3) The product as transferred is labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(c) *A pesticide distributed or sold under an experimental use permit.* (1) An unregistered pesticide may be distributed or sold in accordance with the terms of an experimental use permit issued under FIFRA sec. 5, if the product is labeled in accordance with ยง 172.6 of this chapter.


(2) An unregistered pesticide may be distributed or sold in accordance with the provisions of ยง 172.3 of this chapter, pertaining to use of a pesticide for which an experimental use permit is not required, provided the product is labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(d) *A pesticide transferred solely for export.* An unregistered pesticide may be transferred within the United States solely for export if it meets the following conditions:


(1) The product is prepared and packaged according to the specifications of the foreign purchaser; and


(2) The product is labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(e) *A pesticide distributed or sold under an emergency exemption.* An unregistered pesticide may be distributed or sold in accordance with the terms of an emergency exemption under FIFRA sec. 18, if the product is labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(f) *A pesticide transferred for purposes of disposal.* An unregistered, suspended, or cancelled pesticide may be transferred solely for disposal in accordance with FIFRA sec. 19 or an applicable Administrator's order. The product must be labeled in accordance with part 156 of this chapter.


(g) *Existing stocks of a formerly registered product.* A cancelled or suspended pesticide may be distributed or sold to the extent and in the manner specified in an order issued by the Administrator concerning existing stocks of the pecticide.




