# ยง 745.67   Incorporation by reference.

Certain material is incorporated by reference into this subpart with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: OPPT Docket in the Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), West William Jefferson Clinton Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading room is (202) 566-1744, and the telephone number for the OPPT Docket is (202) 566-0280. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the following sources:


(a) *ASTM.* ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Dr., P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; (877) 909-ASTM; *www.astm.org.*

(1) ASTM E1728/E1728M-20, Standard Practice for Collection of Settled Dust Samples Using Wipe Sampling Methods for Subsequent Lead Determination, Approved January 1, 2020; IBR approved for ยง 745.63.


(2) ASTM E1792-20, Standard Specification for Wipe Sampling Materials for Lead in Surface Dust, Approved September 1, 2020; IBR approved for ยง 745.63.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 89456, Nov. 12, 2024]




