# ยง 27.14   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.


(b) The term *applicant* means one who submits an application for any Federal authorization to which this part applies.


(c) The term *recipient* means any entity or individual who receives a permit, right-of-way, public land order, or other Federal authorization granted or issued under title II of Public Law 93-153 and its agent or agents.


(d) The term *contract* means any agreement or arrangement between a recipient and any person (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of an employer and an employee) in any way related to the activities of the recipient conducted under any permit, right-of-way, public land order, or other Federal authorization granted or issued under title II.


(e) The term *subcontract* means any agreement or arrangement between a contractor and any person (in which the parties do not stand in the relationship of an employer and an employee) in any way related to the performance of any one or more contracts as defined above.


(f) The Authorized Officer means the employee of the Department, designated to act on behalf of the Secretary pursuant to the Agreement and Grant of Right-of-Way for Trans-Alaska Pipeline or such other person to whom the Authorized Officer redelegates his authority pursuant to the delegation of authority to the Authorized Officer from the Secretary.


(g) The Department Compliance Officer means that officer of the Department of the Interior so designated by the Secretary.




