# § 78.5   Definitions.

For purposes of this part and any Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) issued under this part:


*Applicant* means an eligible entity that submits an application for a suicide prevention services grant announced in a NOFO.


*Direct Federal financial assistance* means Federal financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or a pass-through entity as defined in 38 CFR 50.1(d) to provide or carry out a service (e.g., by contract, grant, or cooperative agreement).


*Eligible child care provider* means a provider of child care services for compensation, including a provider of care for a school-age child during non-school hours, that—


(1) Is licensed, regulated, registered, or otherwise legally operating, under State and local law; and


(2) Satisfies the State and local requirements, applicable to the child care services the provider providers.


*Eligible entity* means an entity that meets the definition of an eligible entity in section 201(q) of Public Law 116-171.


*Eligible individual* means an individual that meets the requirements of § 78.10(a).


*Family* means any of the following: A parent, spouse, child, sibling, step-family member, extended family member, and any other individual who lives with the eligible individual.


*Grantee* means an eligible entity that is awarded a suicide prevention services grant under this part.


*Indian tribe* means an Indian tribe as defined in 25 U.S.C. 4103.


*Indirect Federal financial assistance* means Federal financial assistance in which a service provider receives program funds through a voucher, certificate, agreement or other form of disbursement, as a result of the genuine, independent choice of a participant.


*Medically underserved area* means an area that is designated as a medically underserved population under 42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3).


*Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)* means a Notice of Funding Opportunity published on *grants.gov* in accordance with § 78.110.


*Participant* means an eligible individual or their family who is receiving suicide prevention services for which they are eligible from a grantee.


*Rural communities* means those communities considered rural according to the Rural-Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) system as determined by the United States Department of Agriculture.


*State* means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments.


*Suicide prevention services* includes the following services provided to address the needs of a participant:


(1) Outreach as specified under § 78.45.


(2) Baseline mental health screening as specified under § 78.50.


(3) Education as specified under § 78.55.


(4) Clinical services for emergency treatment as specified under § 78.60.


(5) Case management services as specified under § 78.65.


(6) Peer support services as specified under § 78.70.


(7) Assistance in obtaining VA benefits as specified under § 78.75.


(8) Assistance in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits and assistance with emergent needs as specified under § 78.80.


(9) Nontraditional and innovative approaches and treatment practices as specified under § 78.85.


(10) Other services as specified under § 78.90.


*Suicide prevention services grant* means a grant awarded under this part.


*Suicide prevention services grant agreement* means the agreement executed between VA and a grantee as specified under § 78.115.


*Suspension* means an action by VA that temporarily withdraws VA funding under a suicide prevention services grant, pending corrective action by the grantee or pending a decision to terminate the suicide prevention services grant by VA. Suspension of a suicide prevention services grant is a separate action from suspension under VA regulations or guidance implementing Executive Orders 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.”


*Territories* means the territories of the United States, including Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


*Veteran* means a veteran as defined under 38 U.S.C. 101(2).


*Veterans Crisis Line* means the toll-free hotline for veterans in crisis and their families and friends established under 38 U.S.C. 1720F(h).


*Withholding* means that payment of a suicide prevention services grant will not be paid until such time as VA determines that the grantee provides sufficiently adequate documentation and/or actions to correct a deficiency for the suicide prevention services grant.



---

[N] [87 FR 13835, Mar. 10, 2022; 87 FR 16101, Mar. 22, 2022]






