# § 227.111   Audiometric test requirements.

(a) Audiometric tests shall be pure tone, air conduction, hearing threshold examinations, with test frequencies including 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 6000, and 8000 Hz. Tests at each frequency shall be taken separately for each ear.


(b) Audiometric tests shall be conducted with audiometers (including microprocessor audiometers) that meet the specifications of and are maintained and used in accordance with ANSI S3.6-2004 “Specification for Audiometers.” The Director of the Federal Register approves the incorporation by reference of this standard in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the incorporated standard from the American National Standards Institute at 1819 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036 or *http://www.ansi.org.* You may inspect a copy of the incorporated standard at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Room, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590, Washington, DC 20005, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For more information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Pulsed-tone audiometers should be used with the following on and off times: F-J and J-K shall each have values of 225 ±35 milliseconds (ms).


(2) Use of insert earphones shall be consistent with the requirements listed in appendix E of this part: Use of Insert Earphones for Audiometric Testing.


(c) Audiometric examinations shall be administered in a room meeting the requirements listed in appendix D of this part: Audiometric Test Rooms.


(d) *Audiometer calibration.* (1) The functional operation of the audiometer shall be checked before each day's use by testing a person with known, stable hearing thresholds or by appropriate calibration device, and by listening to the audiometer's output to make sure that the output is free from distorted or unwanted sounds. Deviations of 10 decibels or greater require an acoustic calibration.


(2) Audiometer calibration shall be checked acoustically at least annually according to the procedures described in ANSI S3.6-2004. Frequencies below 500 Hz and above 8000 Hz may be omitted from this check. The audiometer must meet the sound pressure accuracy requirements of section 7.2 of ANSI S3.6-2004 of 3 dB at any test frequency between 500 and 5000 Hz and 5 dB at any test frequency 6000 Hz and higher for the specific type of transducer used. For air-conduction supra-aural earphones, the specifications in Table 6 of ANSI S3.6-2004 shall apply. For air-conduction insert earphones, the specifications in Table 7 of ANSI S3.6-2004 shall apply. Audiometers that do not meet these requirements must undergo an exhaustive calibration.


(3) Exhaustive Calibration. An exhaustive calibration shall be performed in accordance with ANSI S3.6-2004, according to the following schedule:


(i) At least once every two years on audiometers not used in mobile test vans. Test frequencies below 500 Hz and above 6000 Hz may be omitted from this calibration.


(ii) At least annually on audiometers used in mobile test vans.



---

[N] [71 FR 63123, Oct. 27, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 25173, May 27, 2009]




