# § 35.6815   Administrative requirements.

In addition to the requirements specified in § 35.6805, the State and/or political subdivision must comply with the following:


(a) *Financial administration.* The State and/or political subdivision must comply with the following requirements regarding financial administration:


(1) *Payment.* The State may pay for its share of the costs of the response activities in cash or credit. As appropriate, specific credit provisions should be included in the SSC consistent with the requirements described in § 35.6285(c). The State may not pay for its cost share using in-kind services, unless the State has entered into a support agency Cooperative Agreement with EPA. The use of the support agency Cooperative Agreement as a vehicle for providing cost share must be documented in the SSC. If the political subdivision agrees to provide all or part of the State's cost share pursuant to a political subdivision-lead Cooperative Agreement, the political subdivision may pay for those costs in cash or in-kind services under that agreement. The use of a political subdivision-lead Cooperative Agreement as a vehicle for providing cost share must also be documented in the SSC. The specific payment terms must be documented in the SSC pursuant to § 35.6805.


(2) *Collection of amounts due.* The State and/or political subdivision must comply with the requirements described in 2 CFR 200.346 regarding collection of amounts due.

(3) *Failure to comply with negotiated payment terms.* Failure to comply with negotiated payment terms may be construed as default by the State on its required assurances, even if the political subdivision is responsible for providing all or part of the cost share. (*See* § 35.6805(i)(5).)


(b) *Personal property.* The State, Indian Tribe, or political subdivision is required to accept title. The following requirements apply to equipment used as all or part of the remedy:


(1) *Fixed in-place equipment.* EPA no longer has an interest in fixed in-place equipment once the equipment is installed.


(2) *Equipment that is an integral part of services to individuals.* EPA no longer has an interest in equipment that is an integral part of services to individuals, such as pipes, lines, or pumps providing hookups for homeowners on an existing water distribution system, once EPA certifies that the remedy is operational and functional.


(c) *Reports.* The State and/or political subdivision or Indian Tribe must comply with the following requirements regarding reports:


(1) *EPA-lead.* The nature and frequency of reports between EPA and the State or Indian Tribe will be specified in the SSC.


(2) *Political subdivision-lead.* The political subdivision must submit to the State a copy of all reports which the political subdivision is required to submit to EPA in accordance with the requirements of its Cooperative Agreement. (*See* § 35.6650 for requirements regarding progress reports.)


(d) *Records.* The State and political subdivision or Indian Tribe must maintain records on a site-specific basis. The State and political subdivision or Indian Tribe must comply with the requirements regarding record retention described in § 35.6705 and the requirements regarding record access described in § 35.6710.



---

[N] [72 FR 24504, May 2, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 76061, Dec. 19, 2014; 87 FR 30401, May 19, 2022]




