# ยง 284.20   What information will we use to determine the child poverty rate in each State?

(a) *General.* We will determine the child poverty rate in each State based on estimates from either the Census Bureau or the State, as described in this section. Each year we will use these data to determine the change in the State's child poverty rate over a two-year period, beginning with calendar years 1996 and 1997.


(b) *Estimates from the Census Bureau.* (1) Annually, we will obtain from the Census Bureau and provide to each State the estimate of the number and percentage of children in poverty in each State. The estimate will be based on the Census Bureau methodology.


(2) In 2000, and annually thereafter, we will determine for each State, at the 90-percent confidence level, the percentage change in the child poverty rate and provide this information to the State. The determination of percentage change in 2000 will cover the change between calendar years 1996 and 1997.


(c) *Estimates from the State.* (1) As an alternative to the Census Bureau estimates provided to the State under paragraph (b) of this section, the State may provide to us data on child poverty in the State derived from an independent source.


(2) If the State provides data on child poverty as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, it must:


(i) Provide an estimate of the child poverty rate for the same two calendar years as the Census Bureau estimates provided to the State under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(ii) Provide the change in the child poverty rate for the applicable two-calendar-year period at the 90-percent confidence level;


(iii) Use the official definition of poverty as used by the Census Bureau; and


(iv) Describe the methodology used to develop its independent estimates, the sources of data and methodology for collecting the data, any known problems associated with making estimates of this type, the estimate of the standard error, and the power of the sample to detect a five percent change in the child poverty rate.


(3) The State must submit its independent estimates and supporting information within 45 days of the date the State receives the Census Bureau estimates as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Determination of the State's child poverty rate.* (1) If we determine that the State's independent estimates of the child poverty rate are more reliable than the Census Bureau estimates, we will accept these estimates.


(2) For all other States, we will determine the State's child poverty rate based on the Census Bureau's estimates.




