# ยง 915.64   Termination.

(a) The Secretary may at any time terminate the provisions of this part by giving at least one day's notice by means of a press release or in any other manner in which he may determine.


(b) The Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of any and all of the provisions of this part whenever he finds that such provisions do not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act.


(c) The Secretary shall terminate the provisions of this part whenever the Secretary finds by referendum or otherwise that such termination is favored by a majority of the producers: *Provided,* That such majority has, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, produced more than 50 percent of the volume of the avocados produced within the production area: *And Provided further,* That such termination shall be announced by March 15 of the then current fiscal year.


(d) The Secretary shall conduct a referendum as soon as practicable after the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 1990, and at such time every sixth year thereafter, to ascertain whether continuance of this part is favored by avocado producers. The Secretary may terminate the provisions of this part at the end of any fiscal year in which the Secretary has found that continuance of this part is not favored by producers who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production for market of avocados in the production area: *Provided,* That termination of this part shall be effective only if announced on or before March 15 of the then current fiscal year.


(e) The provisions of this part shall, in any event, terminate whenever the provisions of the Act authorizing them cease to be in effect.



---

[N] [19 FR 3439, June 11, 1954. Redesignated at 26 FR 12751, Dec. 30, 1961, as amended at 52 FR 7118, Mar. 9, 1987]




