# § 719.1   Scope and definitions.

(a) *Scope.* This part 719 describes the various sanctions that apply to violations of the Act and the CWCR. It also establishes detailed administrative procedures for certain violations of the Act. The three categories of violations are as follows:


(1) *Violations of the Act subject to administrative and criminal enforcement proceedings.* Section 719.2 of the CWCR sets forth violations for which the statutory basis is the Act. BIS investigates these violations and, for administrative proceedings, prepares charges, provides legal representation to the U.S. Government, negotiates settlements, and makes recommendations to officials of the Department of State with respect to the initiation and resolution of proceedings. The administrative procedures applicable to these violations are found in §§ 719.5 through 719.22 of the CWCR. The Department of State gives notice of initiation of administrative proceedings and issues orders imposing penalties pursuant to 22 CFR part 103, subpart C.


(2) *Violations of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA) subject to judicial enforcement proceedings.* Section 719.3 of the CWCR sets forth violations of the Chemical Weapons Convention for which the statutory basis is the IEEPA. BIS refers these violations to the Department of Justice for civil or criminal judicial enforcement.


(3) *Violations and sanctions under the Act not subject to proceedings under the CWCR.* Section 719.4 of the CWCR sets forth violations and sanctions under the Act that are not violations of the CWCR and that are not subject to proceedings under the CWCR. This section is included solely for informational purposes. BIS may assist in investigations of these violations, but has no authority to initiate any enforcement action under the CWCR.


(b) *Definitions.* The following are definitions of terms as used only in parts 719 and 720 of the CWCR. For definitions of terms applicable to parts 710 through 718 and parts 721 and 722 of the CWCR, see part 710 of the CWCR.


*Act (The).* The Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6701-6777).


*Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement.* The Assistant Secretary for Export Enforcement, Bureau of Industry and Security, United States Department of Commerce.


*Final decision.* A decision or order assessing a civil penalty, or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further administrative review, but which may be subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate Federal court as authorized by law.


*IEEPA.* The International Emergency Economic Powers Act, as amended (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706).


*Office of Chief Counsel.* The Office of Chief Counsel for Industry and Security, United States Department of Commerce.


*Report.* For purposes of parts 719 and 720 of the CWCR, the term “report” means any declaration, report, or advance notification required under parts 712 through 715 of the CWCR.


*Respondent.* Any person named as the subject of a letter of intent to charge, or a Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA) and proposed order.


*Under Secretary, Bureau of Industry and Security.* The Under Secretary, Bureau of Industry and Security, United States Department of Commerce. 



---

[N] [71 FR 24929, Apr. 27, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 78183, Dec. 22, 2008]




