# ยง 74.801   Definitions.

*600 MHz duplex gap.* An 11 megahertz guard band at 652-663 MHz that separates part 27 600 MHz service uplink and downlink frequencies.


*600 MHz guard band.* Designated frequency band at 614-617 MHz that prevents interference between licensed services in the 600 MHz service band and channel 37.


*600 MHz service band.* Frequencies in the 617-652 MHz and 663-698 MHz bands that are reallocated and reassigned for 600 MHz band services under part 27.


*Cable television system operator.* A cable television operator is defined in ยง 76.5(cc) of the rules.


*Large venue owner or operator.* Large venue owner or operator refers to a person or organization that owns or operates a venue that routinely uses 50 or more low power auxiliary station devices, where the use of such devices is an integral part of major events or productions. Routinely using 50 or more low power auxiliary station devices means that the venue owner or operator uses 50 or more such devices for most events or productions.


*Low power auxiliary station.* An auxiliary station authorized and operated pursuant to the provisions set forth in this subpart. Devices authorized as low power auxiliary stations are intended to transmit over distances of approximately 100 meters for uses such as wireless microphones, cue and control communications, and synchronization of TV camera signals.


*Motion picture producer.* Motion picture producer refers to a person or organization engaged in the production or filming of motion pictures.


*Professional sound company.* Professional sound company refers to a person or organization that provides audio services that routinely use 50 or more low power auxiliary station devices, where the use of such devices is an integral part of major events or productions. Routinely using 50 or more low power auxiliary station devices means that the professional sound company uses 50 or more such devices for most events or productions.


*Spectrum Act.* Title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. 112-96).


*Television program producer.* Television program producer refers to a person or organization engaged in the production of television programs.


*Wireless assist video device.* An auxiliary station authorized and operated by motion picture and television program producers pursuant to the provisions of this subpart. These stations are intended to transmit over distances of approximately 300 meters for use as an aid in composing camera shots on motion picture and television sets.


*Wireless multichannel audio systems.* Wireless audio transmission systems using broadband digital transmission techniques for microphone and in-ear monitor system applications and other multichannel audio use.





---

[N] [42 FR 14729, Mar. 16, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 14662, Apr. 7, 1978; 51 FR 4603, Feb. 6, 1986; 51 FR 9966, Mar. 24, 1986; 54 FR 41842, Oct. 12, 1989; 68 FR 12772, Mar. 17, 2003; 79 FR 40689, July 14, 2014; 80 FR 71728, Nov. 17, 2015; 82 FR 41559, Sept. 1, 2017; 89 FR 83799, Oct. 18, 2024]




