# § 516.56   Witnesses before foreign tribunals.

(a) *Referral to the SJA.* Requests or subpoenas from a foreign government or tribunal for present DA personnel stationed or employed within that country to be interviewed or to appear as witnesses will be forwarded to the SJA of the command exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the unit to which the individual is assigned, attached, or employed. The SJA will determine the following:


(1) Whether a consideration listed in § 516.47(a)(1) through (a)(3) applies.


(2) Whether the information requested is releasable under the principles established in § 516.43 through § 516.46.


(3) Whether the approval of the American Embassy should be obtained because the person is attached to the Embassy staff or a question of diplomatic immunity may be involved.


(b) *United States has an interest in the litigation.* If the SJA determines that the United States has an interest in the litigation, the commander may authorize the interview or order the individual's attendance in a temporary duty status. The United States will be deemed to have an interest in the litigation if it is bound by treaty or other international agreement to ensure the attendance of such personnel.


(c) *United States has no interest in the litigation.* If the SJA determines that the United States does not have an interest in the litigation, the commander may authorize the interview or the appearance of the witness under the principles established in § 516.47 through § 516.50.


(d) *Witnesses located outside the requester's country.* If the requested witness is stationed in a country other than the requester's, the matter will be referred to Litigation Division.




