# § 1.243-1   Deduction for dividends received by corporations.

(a)(1) A corporation is allowed a deduction under section 243 for dividends received from a domestic corporation which is subject to taxation under Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 


(2) Except as provided in section 243(c) and in section 246, the deduction is: 


(i) For the taxable year, an amount equal to 85 percent of the dividends received from such domestic corporations during the taxable year (other than dividends to which subdivision (ii) or (iii) of this subparagraph applies). 


(ii) For a taxable year beginning after September 2, 1958, an amount equal to 100 percent of the dividends received from such domestic corporations if at the time of receipt of such dividends the recipient corporation is a Federal licensee under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. ch. 14B). However, to claim the deduction provided by section 243(a)(2) the company must file with its return a statement that it was a Federal licensee under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 at the time of the receipt of the dividends. 


(iii) For a taxable year ending after December 31, 1963, an amount equal to 100 percent of the dividends received which are *qualifying dividends,* as defined in section 243(b) and § 1.243-4. 


(3) To determine the amount of the distribution to a recipient corporation and the amount of the dividend, see §§ 1.301-1 and 1.316-1. 


(b) For limitation on the dividends received deduction, see section 246 and the regulations thereunder. 



---

[N] [T.D. 6992, 34 FR 817, Jan. 18, 1969]




