# § 1046.13   Medical certification standards and procedures.

(a) *PF medical certification standards.* All applicant and incumbent PF personnel must satisfy the applicable Medical Certification Standards set forth in this section.


(b) *Requirements of the medical evaluation to determine medical certification.* (1) The medical evaluation must be made by the Designated Physician without delegation (e.g., to a physician's assistant or nurse practitioner).


(2) Evaluations of incumbent security police officers must include a medical history, the results of the examination, and a formal written determination.


(3) A site standard form approved by EHSS-1 must be used, and pertinent negatives must be documented on the form.


(4) The Medical Certification Standards are the minimum medical standards to be used in determining whether applicants and incumbent PF personnel can effectively perform, with or without reasonable accommodation, all essential functions of normal and emergency duties without imposing an undue hardship on the employer or posing a direct threat to the PF member or others, the facility, or the general public. All reasonable accommodations as defined in this part must be approved in writing by the PF contractor with a determination that the use of the device is compatible with all actions associated with emergency and protective equipment without creating a hardship for the contractor. The Designated Physician and PPMD must determine that the reasonable accommodation is consistent with the medical standard without creating a direct threat to the individual or to others.


(c) *General medical standards for PF personnel.* The examinee must possess the mental, sensorial, and motor skills to perform, safely and efficiently, all applicable essential job functions described in § 1046.11 and those designated in the current job analysis submitted by PF management to the Designated Physician/PPMD. Specific qualifications for SOs and SPOs are set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e), respectively, of this section. Reasonable accommodations shall be provided pursuant to the requirements of the ADAAA.


(d) *Specific medical standards for SOs*—(1) *Head, face, neck, and scalp.* Configuration suitable for fitting and effective use of personal protective equipment when the use of such equipment is required by assigned normal or emergency job duties.


(2) *Sense of smell.* Ability to detect the odor of combustion products and of tracer or marker gases.


(3) *Speech.* Capacity for clear and audible speech as required for effective communications of the job.


(4) *Hearing.* Hearing loss with or without aids not to exceed 30 decibels (db) average at 500, 1000, and 2000 Hertz (Hz), with no loss greater than 40 db at any one of these frequencies and the ability to localize sounds with a difference of not more than 15 db average loss between the two ears. If hearing aids are necessary, suitable testing procedures shall be used to ensure auditory acuity equivalent to the above requirement.


(5) *Vision.* Near and distant visual acuity, with or without correction, of at least 20/25 in one eye and no worse than 20/40 in the other eye.


(6) *Color vision.* Ability to distinguish red, green, and yellow. Acceptable measures of color discrimination include the Ishihara; Hardy, Rand, & Rittler; and Dvorine pseudoisochromatic plates (PIP) when administered and scored according to the manufacturer's instructions. Tinted lenses such as the X-Chrom contact lenses or tinted spectacle lenses effectively alter the standard illumination required for all color vision tests, thereby invalidating the results and are not permitted during color vision testing.


(7) *Cardiorespiratory.* Capacity to use a respirator other than self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) when required by local assignment.


(8) *Nutritional/metabolic.* Ability to accommodate to changing work and meal schedules without potential or actual incapacity. Status adequate to meet the stresses and demands of assigned normal and emergency job duties.


(e) *Specific medical standards for SPOs.* In addition to the criteria identified in § 1046.16(f), the following standards must be applied.


(1) *Head, face, neck and scalp.* Configuration suitable for fitting and effective use of personal protective equipment when the use of such equipment is required by assigned normal or emergency job duties.


(2) *Sense of Smell.* The ability to detect the odor of combustion products and of tracer or marker gases.


(3) *Speech.* Capacity for clear and audible speech as required for effective communications on the job.


(4) *Hearing.* Hearing loss without aids not to exceed 30 db average at 500, 1000, 2000 Hz, with no loss greater than 40 db at any of these frequencies and the ability to localize sounds with a difference of not more than 15 db average loss between the two ears. Hearing loss beyond indicated level would interfere with ability to function and respond to commands in emergency situations. Use of a hearing aid is allowed for one ear only with the remaining ear qualifying for no more than an average of 30 db loss at frequencies of 500, 1000 and 2000 Hz. If a hearing aid is necessary, suitable testing procedures must be used to assure auditory acuity equivalent to the above requirement for the difference between two ears.


(5) *Vision.* (i) Near and distant vision. Near and distant visual acuity sufficient to effectively perform emergency-related essential functions:


(A) With or without correction, vision of 20/25 or better in the better eye and 20/40 or better in the other eye.


(B) If uncorrected, distant vision in the better eye is at least 20/25, and if the SPO wears corrective lenses, the SPO must carry an extra pair of corrective lenses.


(ii) *Color vision.* Ability to distinguish red, green, and yellow. Acceptable measures of color discrimination include the Ishihara; Hardy, Rand, & Rittler; and Dvorine pseudoisochromatic plates (PIP) when administered and scored according to the manufacturer's instructions. Tinted lenses such as the X-Chrom contact lenses or tinted spectacle lenses effectively alter the standard illumination required for all color vision tests, thereby invalidating the results and are not permitted during color vision testing.


(iii) *Field of vision.* Field of vision in the horizontal meridian at least a total of 140 degrees, contributed to by at least 70 degrees from each eye.


(iv) *Depth perception.* Ability to judge the distance of objects and the spatial relationship of objects at different distances.


(6) *Cardiorespiratory.* (i) *Respiratory.* Capacity and reserve to perform physical exertion in emergencies at least equal to the demands of the job assignment. This must be measured by annual pulmonary function test, with no less than a 90 percent predicted forced vital capacity and forced expiratory volume. There must be no diagnosis of respiratory impairment requiring ongoing use of medications such as bronchodilators or beta agonists. A full review and approval by the PPMD is required whenever there is a past history of sleep apnea (with an established index of suspicion), with or without treatment.


(ii) *Cardiovascular.* (A) Capacity for tolerating physical exertion during emergencies. The results of the two semiannual assessments as identified in § 1046.16(b)(4) must be considered. Normal configuration and function, normal resting pulse, regular pulse without arrhythmia, full symmetrical pulses in extremities, and normotensive, with tolerance for rapid postural changes on rapid change from lying to standing position. The use of hypertensive medications is acceptable if there are no side effects present that would preclude adequate functions as herein specified.


(B) If an examination reveals significant evidence of cardiovascular abnormality or significantly increased risk for coronary artery disease (CAD) as determined by the examining physician (e.g., by using the Framingham Point System), an evaluation by a specialist in internal medicine or cardiology may be required and evaluated by the Designated Physician. An electrocardiogram is required at entry, at age 40, and annually thereafter, which must be free from significant abnormality. If such abnormalities are detected, then a stress electrocardiogram with non-ischemic results must be provided, or the individual must be referred to a cardiologist for a fitness for duty examination. A stress electrocardiogram must be performed every other year beginning at age 50 with the results reviewed by the Designated Physician.


(7) *Neurological, mental, and emotional.* Absence of central and peripheral nervous system conditions that could adversely affect ability to perform normal and emergency duties or to handle firearms safely. A test for peripheral neuropathy at fingers and toes is required annually. Absence of neurotic or psychotic conditions which would adversely affect the ability to handle firearms safely or to act safely and efficiently under normal and emergency conditions. Psychologists and psychiatrists identified to conduct evaluations, assessments, testing, and/or diagnoses associated with medical qualifications of this part must meet standards established by DOE.


(8) *Musculoskeletal.* Absence of conditions that could reasonably be expected to interfere with the safe and effective performance of essential physical activities such as running, walking, crawling, climbing stairs, and standing for prolonged periods of time. All major joint range of motion limits must have no significant impairments in the performance of essential functions. This includes full range of motion to include overhead reaching and squatting. No history of spine surgery, a documented diagnosis of herniated disc, or mechanical back pain that has not been certified to have normal functional recovery with no activity limitations precluding the ability to perform SPO essential functions.


(9) *Skin.* Have no known significant abnormal intolerance to chemical, mechanical, and other physical agent exposures to the skin that may be encountered during routine and emergency duties, as specified at the site. Capability to tolerate use of personal protective covering and decontamination procedures when required by assigned job duties. Facial hair cannot be allowed to interfere with respirator fitting, and any such growth or a skin condition which could preclude respirator fit is not acceptable and must be documented.


(10) *Endocrine/nutritional/metabolic.* Ability to accommodate to changing work and meal schedules without potential or actual incapacity. Status adequate to meet the stresses and demands of assigned normal and emergency job duties. A full evaluation and approval of reasonable accommodation by the PPMD is required for hiring and retention when metabolic syndrome is identified and/or when diabetes is controlled by other than diet.


(f) *Additional medical or physical tests.* For those facilities where it is necessary to determine the medical qualification of SPOs or SPO applicants to perform special assignment duties which might require exposure to unusually high levels of stress or physical exertion, Field Elements may develop more stringent medical qualification requirements or additional medical or physical tests, in collaboration with the PPMD, as necessary for such determinations. All such additional qualification requirements must be coordinated with the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security prior to application.


(g) *Medical examination procedures and requirements.* (1) The medical examinations required for certification must be performed at the following intervals:


(i) Applicants for PF member positions must undergo a comprehensive medical examination, as specified herein. The Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or designee, the Chief, Defense Nuclear Security in the case of NNSA, and/or the PPMD may require additional evaluations.


(ii) After initial certification, each SO must be medically examined and recertified at least every two years or more often if the PPMD so requires. This initial certification date becomes the SO's anniversary date. Medical certification remains valid through 30 days beyond the anniversary date or for the period indicated by the PPMD if less than twenty-four months.


(iii) After initial certification, each SPO must be medically examined and recertified every twelve months or more often (pursuant to § 1046.14 or otherwise if the PPMD so requires). This initial certification date becomes the SPO's anniversary date. Medical certification remains valid through 30 days from the anniversary date or for the time indicated by the PPMD if less than twelve months.


(2) The medical examination must include a review of the essential functions of the job to which the individual is assigned. Medical examinations of SPO and SO applicants and incumbents must include the following evaluations to determine whether the individual meets the Medical Certification Standards for the applicable position:


(i) An up to date medical and occupational history, complete physical examination, vision testing, audiometry, and spirometry. In addition, laboratory testing must be performed, including a complete blood count (CBC), basic blood chemistry, a fasting blood glucose, and a fasting lipid panel (the examination and testing is to identify baseline abnormalities, as well as trends); and


(ii)(A) A psychologist or, as appropriate, a psychiatrist who meets standards established by DOE must be used to fulfill the requirements of this part. A personal, semi-structured interview at the time of the pre-placement medical evaluation and during the biennial (for SOs) or annual (for SPOs) examination must be conducted by a psychologist or, as appropriate, a psychiatrist. At the pre-placement medical examination and every third year for SPOs and every fourth year for SOs thereafter, a Minnesota Multi-Phasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) (available only to appropriate medical professionals at, e.g., *http://psychcorp.pearsonassessments.com*) or its revised form must be administered in order to:


(*1*) Establish a baseline psychological profile;


(*2*) Monitor for the development of abnormalities; and


(*3*) Qualify and quantify abnormalities.


(B) The information gathered from paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, together with the results of the semi-structured interview of this paragraph, psychiatric evaluations (if required), and reviews of job performance may indicate disqualifying medical or psychological conditions. Additional generally-accepted psychological testing may be performed as required to substantiate findings of the MMPI. If medically indicated and approved by the PPMD, an additional evaluation by a psychiatrist who meets standards established by DOE may be conducted. Additional or more frequent psychological evaluations as determined by the psychologist, psychiatrist, Designated Physician, or the PPMD may be required. Unless otherwise indicated, a psychological evaluation performed in accordance with the other DOE requirements (e.g., pursuant to 10 CFR part 712) may satisfy the requirements of this part.


(C) The Designated Physician may request any additional medical examination, test, consultation or evaluation deemed necessary to evaluate a candidate or an incumbent SO's or SPO's ability to perform essential job duties or for incumbents, the need for temporary work restrictions.


(3) When an examinee needs the use of corrective devices, such as eyeglasses or hearing aids, to enable the examinee to successfully meet medical qualification requirements, the contractor responsible for the examinee's performance must make a determination that the use of any such device is compatible with all required emergency and protective equipment that the examinee may be required to wear or use while performing assigned job duties. The Designated Physician and the PPMD must determine that the reasonable accommodation is consistent with the medical standard and will not result in a direct threat to the individual or to others. This determination must be made before such corrective devices may be used by the examinee to meet the medical, physical readiness, or training requirements for a particular position.


(4) Contractor management must provide reasonable accommodations to a qualified individual by taking reasonable steps to modify required emergency and protective equipment to be compatible with corrective devices or by providing equally effective, alternate equipment, if available.


(5) The Designated Physician must discuss the results of the medical and physical readiness examinations with the individual. The results of the medical examinations also must be communicated in writing to PF management and to the individual and must include:


(i) A statement of the certification status of the individual, including any essential functions for which the individual is not qualified, with or without reasonable accommodations, and an assessment of whether the individual would present a direct threat to self or others in the position at issue;


(ii) If another medical appointment is required, the date of the next medical appointment; and


(iii) Recommended remedial programs or other measures that may restore the individual's ability to perform the essential functions or may negate the direct threat concern, if the individual is not approved for physical training, testing, or the relevant position.


(6) The PF contractor must offer a health status exit review for all employees leaving PF service. If the employee desires the review, it must be conducted by the PPMD or Designated Physician. The review, which may be conducted in conjunction with the requirements of other parts, must include all of the medical standards for the PF position being vacated. The reason(s) for any health status exit review not being performed must be documented (e.g., employee declined to have the review conducted).



---

[N] [78 FR 55184, Sept. 10, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 57083, Sept. 22, 2015; 88 FR 41295, June 26, 2023]




