# ยง 520.1422   Metoserpate hydrochloride.

(a) *Chemical name.* Methyl-*o*-methyl-18-epireserpate hydrochloride. 


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in ยง 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Related tolerances.* See ยง 556.410 of this chapter. 


(d) *Conditions of use.* It is used in drinking water for replacement chickens as follows: 


(1) *Amount.* 568.5 milligrams per gallon (0.015 percent). 


(i) *Indications for use.* As a tranquilizer for flock treatment of chickens prior to handling. 


(ii) *Limitations.* To be used one time as a treatment for replacement chickens up to 16 weeks of age; usual drinking water should be withheld prior to treatment to provide adequate consumption of medicated drinking water; not for use in laying chickens; chickens slaughtered within 72 hours following treatment must not be used for food. 


(2) *Amount.* 2 to 4 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight. 


(i) *Indications for use.* As an aid in control of hysteria. 


(ii) *Limitations.* To be used as a treatment for replacement chickens up to 16 weeks of age; usual drinking water should be withheld prior to treatment to provide adequate consumption of medicated drinking water; the drug should be administered at a dosage level of 4 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight followed by 2 treatments at 4-day intervals of 2 milligrams per 2.2 pounds of body weight; not for use in laying chickens; chickens slaughtered within 72 hours following treatment must not be used for food. 



---

[N] [40 FR 13838, Mar. 27, 1975, as amended at 76 FR 17337, Mar. 29, 2011; 78 FR 28824, May 20, 2014]






