# ยง 102.8   Receipt of contributions (52 U.S.C. 30102(b)).

(a) Every person who receives a contribution for an authorized political committee shall, no later than 10 days after receipt, forward such contribution to the treasurer. If the amount of the contribution is in excess of $50, such person shall also forward to the treasurer the name and address of the contributor and the date of receipt of the contribution. If the amount of the contribution is in excess of $200, such person shall forward the contribution, the identification of the contributor in accordance with 11 CFR 100.12, and the date of receipt of the contribution. Date of receipt shall be the date such person obtains possession of the contribution or, for a contribution made in an electronic transaction in which the receipt of authorization precedes the receipt of funds, obtains the contributor's authorization of the transaction.


(b)(1) Every person who receives a contribution of $50 or less for a political committee which is not an authorized committee shall forward such contribution to the treasurer of the political committee no later than 30 days after receipt.


(2) Every person who receives a contribution in excess of $50 for a political committee which is not an authorized committee shall, no later than 10 days after receipt of the contribution, forward to the treasurer of the political committee: The contribution; the name and address of the contributor; and the date of receipt of the contribution. If the amount of the contribution is in excess of $200, such person shall forward the contribution, the identification of the contributor in accordance with 11 CFR 100.12, and the date of receipt of the contribution. Date of receipt shall be the date such person obtains possession of the contribution or, for a contribution made in an electronic transaction in which the receipt of authorization precedes the receipt of funds, obtains the contributor's authorization of the transaction.


(c) The provisions of 11 CFR 102.8 concerning receipt of contributions for political committees shall also apply to earmarked contributions transmitted by an intermediary or conduit.


(d) Every person whose usual and normal business involves the processing and transmission of payments and who processes a contribution to a political committee in the ordinary course of its business will satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if such person transmits funds and contributor information to the recipient political committee within the time periods prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for forwarding contributions.





---

[N] [45 FR 15104, Mar. 7, 1980, as amended at 89 FR 215, Jan. 2, 2024]






