# § 112.2   Bond or license required.

(a) *Carriers.* A bond provided for in this part is required to transact business as a carrier receiving merchandise for transportation in bond.


(b) *Cartmen and lightermen*—(1) *Necessity for bond.* A bond, as provided for in this part, is required to transact business as a cartman or lighterman. The cartage or lighterage of merchandise designated for examination, entered for warehouse, taken to container stations or centralized examination stations, taken into custody as unclaimed or destined for admission to a foreign trade zone may be done under the bond of a cartman or lighterman who is licensed pursuant to the provisions of this part or that of a bonded carrier, as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. Foreign trade zone operators, bonded warehouse proprietors, container station operators and centralized examination station operators may engage in limited cartage or lighterage under their respective bonds. A foreign trade zone operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his foreign trade zone and may also transport merchandise to his zone from anywhere within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1) where the foreign trade zone is located. A bonded warehouse proprietor may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his bonded warehouse and may also transport merchandise to his warehouse from anywhere within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1) where the bonded warehouse is located. A container station operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his container station and may also transport merchandise to his container station from anywhere within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1) where the container station is located. A centralized examination station operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his centralized examination station and may also transport merchandise to his centralized examination station from anywhere within the district boundaries (see definition of “district” at § 112.1) where the centralized examination station is located.


(2) *Necessity for license.* A license, as provided for in this part, is required to transact business as a cartman or lighterman for the cartage or lighterage of merchandise. Bonded carriers may engage in cartage and lighterage under their bonds without obtaining a license. Foreign trade zone operators, bonded warehouse proprietors, container station operators and centralized examination station operators may engage, under their bonds, in the limited cartage and lighterage and other transportation described in this paragraph without obtaining a license.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13551, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51494, Oct. 12, 1994; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50020, Sept. 27, 1995]




