# ยง 148.28   Appeal to the Commission.

(a) Either the applicant or counsel for the Commission or for another relevant agency may appeal the initial decision on the fee application by complying with the requirements of this section. An appealing party shall serve upon opposing parties and shall file with the Proceedings Clerk a notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days after service of the initial decision. The notice need consist only of a brief statement indicating the filing party's intent to appeal the initial decision, and shall include the date upon which the initial decision was rendered, the name of the proceeding, and the docket number of the proceeding. The failure of a party timely to file and serve a notice of appeal in accordance with this paragraph, or to perfect the appeal in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall constitute a voluntary waiver of any objection to the initial decision, and of all further administrative or judicial review under these rules and the Equal Access to Justice Act.


(b) An appeal shall be perfected by the appealing party by timely filing with the Proceedings Clerk an appeal brief which meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section. An original and one copy of the appeal brief shall be filed within thirty (30) days after filing of the notice of appeal. By motion of the appealing party, the Commission may, for good cause shown, extend the time for filing the appeal brief. If the appeal brief is not filed within the time prescribed in this subparagraph, the Commission may, upon its own motion or upon motion by a party, dismiss the appeal, in which event the initial decision shall become the final decision and order of the Commission, effective upon service of the order of dismissal.


(c) The opposing party may, within thirty (30) days after service of the appeal brief, file an original and one copy of an answering brief, and serve one copy thereof, unless the time limit is extended by the Commission upon motion of the party and for good cause shown.


(d) Parties filing an appeal brief or answering brief shall meet the requirements of ยง 10.12 of this chapter as to form. The content of briefs shall satisfy the requirements of ยง 10.102(d) of this chapter, except that any party, with leave of the Commission, may file an informal document in lieu of a brief. No brief shall exceed thirty-five (35) pages in length without advance leave of the Commission.


(e) On review, the Commission may, in its discretion, consider *sua sponte* any issues arising from the record and may base its determination thereon, or limit the issues to those presented in the statement of issues in the briefs, treating those issues not raised as waived.



---

[N] [51 FR 18881, May 23, 1986]




