# § 210.3-02   Consolidated statements of comprehensive income and cash flows.

(a) There shall be filed, for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and for its predecessors, audited statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet being filed or such shorter period as the registrant (including predecessors) has been in existence. A registrant that is an emerging growth company, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter (Rule 405 of the Securities Act) or § 240.12b-2 of this chapter (Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act), may, in a Securities Act registration statement for the initial public offering of the emerging growth company's equity securities, provide audited statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet (or such shorter period as the registrant has been in existence).


(b) In addition, for any interim period between the latest audited balance sheet and the date of the most recent interim balance sheet being filed, and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, statements of comprehensive income and cash flows shall be provided. Such interim financial statements may be unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required by § 210.10-01.


(c) For filings by registered management investment companies, the requirements of § 210.3-18 shall apply in lieu of the requirements of this section.


(d) Any foreign private issuer, other than a registered management investment company or an employee plan, may file the financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220 of this chapter) in lieu of the financial statements specified in this rule.



---

[N] [45 FR 63687, Sept. 25, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 12491, Feb. 17, 1981; 46 FR 36125, July 14, 1981; 50 FR 49531, Dec. 3, 1985; 56 FR 30053, July 1, 1991; 57 FR 45292, Oct. 1, 1992; 64 FR 53908, Oct. 5, 1999; 82 FR 17551, Apr. 12, 2017; 83 FR 50198, Oct. 4, 2018]




