# 217.7404-3   Definitization schedule.

(a) UCAs shall contain definitization schedules that provide for definitization by the earlier of—


(1) The date that is 180 days after the contractor submits a qualifying proposal. This date may not be extended beyond an additional 90 days without a written determination by the head of the contracting activity without power of redelegation, the commander of the combatant command concerned, or the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment that it is in the best interests of the military department or the defense agency, the combatant command, or the Department of Defense, respectively, to continue the action; or


(2) The date on which the amount of funds obligated under the contract action is equal to more than 50 percent of the not-to-exceed price.


(b)(1) Submission of a qualifying proposal in accordance with the definitization schedule is a material element of the contract. If the contractor does not submit a qualifying proposal in accordance with the contract definitization schedule, notwithstanding FAR 52.216-26, Payments of Allowable Costs Before Definitization, the contracting officer may withhold an amount necessary to protect the interests of the Government, not to exceed 5 percent of all subsequent financing requests, or take other appropriate actions (e.g., documenting the noncompliance in the contractor's past performance evaluation or terminating the contract for default).


(2) Contracting officers shall document in the contract file the justification for withholding or not withholding payments if the qualifying proposal was not submitted in accordance with the contract definitization schedule.





---

[N] [56 FR 36345, July 31, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 29498, June 5, 1995; 63 FR 67803, Dec. 9, 1998; 84 FR 39206, Aug. 9, 2019; 88 FR 33837, May 25, 2023]




