# § 763.97   Compliance and enforcement.

(a) *Compliance with Title II of the Act.* (1) Section 207(a) of Title II of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2647) makes it unlawful for any local education agency to: 


(i) Fail to conduct inspections pursuant to section 203(b) of Title II of the Act, including failure to follow procedures and failure to use accredited personnel and laboratories. 


(ii) Knowingly submit false information to the Governor regarding any inspection pursuant to regulations under section 203(i) of Title II of the Act. 


(iii) Fail to develop a management plan pursuant to regulations under section 203(i) of Title II of the Act. 


(2) Section 207(a) of Title II of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2647) also provides that any local education agency which violates any provision of section 207 shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 for each day during which the violation continues. For the purposes of this subpart, a “violation” means a failure to comply with respect to a single school building. 


(b) *Compliance with Title I of the Act.* (1) Section 15(1)(D) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614) makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any requirement of Title II or any rule promulgated or order issued under Title II. Therefore, any person who violates any requirement of this subpart is in violation of section 15 of Title I of the Act. 


(2) Section 15(3) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2614) makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to establish or maintain records, submit reports, notices or other information, or permit access to or copying of records, as required by this Act or a rule thereunder. 


(3) Section 15(4) (15 U.S.C. 2614) of Title I of the Act makes it unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to permit entry or inspection as required by section 11 of Title I of the Act. 


(4) Section 16(a) of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2615) provides that any person who violates any provision of section 15 of Title I of the Act shall be liable to the United States for a civil penalty in an amount not to exceed $25,000 for each such violation. Each day such a violation continues shall, for purposes of this paragraph, constitute a separate violation of section 15. A local education agency is not liable for any civil penalty under Title I of the Act for failing or refusing to comply with any rule promulgated or order issued under Title II of the Act. 


(c) *Criminal penalties.* If any violation committed by any person (including a local education agency) is knowing or willful, criminal penalties may be assessed under section 16(b) of Title I of the Act. 


(d) *Injunctive relief.* The Agency may obtain injunctive relief under section 208(b) of Title II of the Act to respond to a hazard which poses an imminent and substantial endangerment to human health or the environment or section 17 (15 U.S.C. 2616) of Title I of the Act to restrain any violation of section 15 of Title I of the Act or to compel the taking of any action required by or under Title I of the Act. 


(e) *Citizen complaints.* Any citizen who wishes to file a complaint pursuant to section 207(d) of Title II of the Act should direct the complaint to the Governor of the State or the EPA Asbestos Ombudsman, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. The citizen complaint should be in writing and identified as a citizen complaint pursuant to section 207(d) of Title II of TSCA. The EPA Asbestos Ombudsman or the Governor shall investigate and respond to the complaint within a reasonable period of time if the allegations provide a reasonable basis to believe that a violation of the Act has occurred. 


(f) *Inspections.* EPA may conduct inspections and review management plans under section 11 of Title I of the Act (15 U.S.C. 2610) to ensure compliance.


(g) *Annual adjustments to civil penalties.* The civil monetary penalty amounts listed in this section may not reflect recent inflation adjustments EPA is required to make. The current maximum and minimum statutory civil penalty amounts are located in § 19.4.





---

[N] [52 FR 41846, Oct. 30, 1987, as amended at 89 FR 88656, Nov. 8, 2024]




