# ยง 3010.330   Briefs.

(a) *When filed.* At the close of the taking of testimony in any proceeding, the Commission or the presiding officer shall fix the time for the filing and service of briefs, giving due regard to the timely issuance of the decision. In addition, subject to such consideration, due regard shall be given to the nature of the proceeding, the complexity and importance of the issues involved, and the magnitude of the record. In cases subject to a limitation on the time available to the Commission for decision, the Commission may direct each party to file its brief simultaneously with the filing of briefs by other parties. In cases where, because of the nature of the issues and the record or the limited number of parties involved, the filing of initial and reply briefs, or the filing of initial, answering, and reply briefs, will not unduly delay the conclusion of the proceeding and will aid in the proper disposition of the proceeding, the parties may be directed to file more than one brief and at different times rather than a single brief filed simultaneously with briefs filed by other parties. The Commission or presiding officer may also order the filing of briefs during the course of the proceeding.


(b) *Contents.* Each brief filed with the Commission shall be as concise as possible, within any page limitation specified by the Commission or the presiding officer, and shall include the following in the order indicated:


(1) A subject index with page references, and a list of all cases and authorities relied upon, arranged alphabetically, with references to the pages where the citation appears;


(2) A concise statement of the case from the viewpoint of the filing party;


(3) A clear, concise, and definitive statement of the position of the filing party as to the matter before the Commission and the decision to be issued;


(4) A discussion of the evidence, reasons, and authorities relied upon with exact references to the record and the authorities; and


(5) Proposed findings and conclusions with appropriate references to the record or the prior discussion of the evidence and authorities relied upon.


(c) *Incorporation by references.* Briefs before the Commission or a presiding officer shall be completely self-contained and shall not incorporate by reference any portion of any other brief, pleading, or document.


(d) *Excerpts from the record.* Testimony and exhibits shall not be quoted or included in briefs except for short excerpts pertinent to the argument presented.


(e) *Filing and service.* Briefs shall be filed with the Commission and served on all parties as required pursuant to subpart B of this part.




