# § 97.504   Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) The following units in a State (and Indian country within the borders of such State) shall be CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 units, and any source that includes one or more such units shall be a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 source, subject to the requirements of this subpart: Any stationary, fossil-fuel-fired boiler or stationary, fossil-fuel-fired combustion turbine serving at any time, on or after January 1, 2005, a generator with nameplate capacity of more than 25 MWe producing electricity for sale.


(2) If a stationary boiler or stationary combustion turbine that, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, is not a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit begins to combust fossil fuel or to serve a generator with nameplate capacity of more than 25 MWe producing electricity for sale, the unit shall become a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on the first date on which it both combusts fossil fuel and serves such generator.


(b) Any unit in a State (and Indian country within the borders of such State) that otherwise is a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit under paragraph (a) of this section and that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i) of this section shall not be a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit:


(1)(i) Any unit:


(A) Qualifying as a cogeneration unit throughout the later of 2005 or the 12-month period starting on the date the unit first produces electricity and continuing to qualify as a cogeneration unit throughout each calendar year ending after the later of 2005 or such 12-month period; and


(B) Not supplying in 2005 or any calendar year thereafter more than one-third of the unit's potential electrical output capacity or 219,000 MWh, whichever is greater, to any utility power distribution system for sale.


(ii) If, after qualifying under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section as not being a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit, a unit subsequently no longer meets all the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the unit shall become a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit starting on the earlier of January 1 after the first calendar year during which the unit first no longer qualifies as a cogeneration unit or January 1 after the first calendar year during which the unit no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section. The unit shall thereafter continue to be a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit.


(2)(i) Any unit:


(A) Qualifying as a solid waste incineration unit throughout the later of 2005 or the 12-month period starting on the date the unit first produces electricity and continuing to qualify as a solid waste incineration unit throughout each calendar year ending after the later of 2005 or such 12-month period; and


(B) With an average annual fuel consumption of fossil fuel for the first 3 consecutive calendar years of operation starting no earlier than 2005 of less than 20 percent (on a Btu basis) and an average annual fuel consumption of fossil fuel for any 3 consecutive calendar years thereafter of less than 20 percent (on a Btu basis).


(ii) If, after qualifying under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section as not being a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit, a unit subsequently no longer meets all the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the unit shall become a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit starting on the earlier of January 1 after the first calendar year during which the unit first no longer qualifies as a solid waste incineration unit or January 1 after the first 3 consecutive calendar years after 2005 for which the unit has an average annual fuel consumption of fossil fuel of 20 percent or more. The unit shall thereafter continue to be a CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 unit.


(c) A certifying official of an owner or operator of any unit or other equipment may submit a petition (including any supporting documents) to the Administrator at any time for a determination concerning the applicability, under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section or a SIP revision approved under § 52.38(b)(4) or (5) of this chapter, of the CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 Trading Program to the unit or other equipment.


(1) *Petition content.* The petition shall be in writing and include the identification of the unit or other equipment and the relevant facts about the unit or other equipment. The petition and any other documents provided to the Administrator in connection with the petition shall include the following certification statement, signed by the certifying official: “I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the owners and operators of the unit or other equipment for which the submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment.”


(2) *Response.* The Administrator will issue a written response to the petition and may request supplemental information determined by the Administrator to be relevant to such petition. The Administrator's determination concerning the applicability, under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, of the CSAPR NO_X_ Ozone Season Group 1 Trading Program to the unit or other equipment shall be binding on any State or permitting authority unless the Administrator determines that the petition or other documents or information provided in connection with the petition contained significant, relevant errors or omissions.



---

[N] [76 FR 48406, Aug. 8, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 74609, Oct. 26, 2016; 86 FR 23186, Apr. 30, 2021]




