# § 217.107   Renewals and modifications of Letters of Authorization.

(a) An LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.106 for the activity identified in § 217.100(a) shall be renewed or modified upon request by the applicant, provided that:


(1) The proposed specified activity and mitigation, monitoring, and reporting measures, as well as the anticipated impacts, are the same as those described and analyzed for this subpart (excluding changes made pursuant to the adaptive management provision in paragraph (c)(1) of this section); and


(2) NMFS' Office of Protected Resources determines that the mitigation, monitoring, and reporting measures required by the previous LOA under this subpart were implemented.


(b) For an LOA modification or renewal requests by the applicant that include changes to the activity or the mitigation, monitoring, or reporting (excluding changes made pursuant to the adaptive management provision in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) that do not change the findings made for this subpart or result in no more than a minor change in the total estimated number of takes (or distribution by species or years), NMFS' Office of Protected Resources may publish a notice of proposed LOA in the _Federal Register,_ including the associated analysis of the change, and solicit public comment before issuing the LOA.


(c) An LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.106 for the activity identified in § 217.100(a) may be modified by NMFS' Office of Protected Resources under the following circumstances:


(1) *Adaptive management.* NMFS' Office of Protected Resources may modify (including augment) the existing mitigation, monitoring, or reporting measures (after consulting with UCSC/PISCO regarding the practicability of the modifications) if doing so creates a reasonable likelihood of more effectively accomplishing the goals of the mitigation and monitoring set forth in this subpart.


(i) Possible sources of data that could contribute to the decision to modify the mitigation, monitoring, or reporting measures in an LOA:


(A) Results from UCSC/PISCO's monitoring from the previous year(s).


(B) Results from other marine mammal and/or sound research or studies.


(C) Any information that reveals marine mammals may have been taken in a manner, extent, or number not authorized by this subpart or subsequent LOAs.


(ii) If, through adaptive management, the modifications to the mitigation, monitoring, or reporting measures are substantial, NMFS' Office of Protected Resources will publish a notice of proposed LOA in the _Federal Register_ and solicit public comment.


(2) *Emergencies.* If NMFS' Office of Protected Resources determines that an emergency exists that poses a significant risk to the well-being of the species or stocks of marine mammals specified in LOAs issued pursuant to §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.106, an LOA may be modified without prior notice or opportunity for public comment. Notice would be published in the _Federal Register_ within thirty days of the action.




