# ยง 1.168A-2   Election of amortization.

(a) *General rule.* An election by the taxpayer to take amortization deductions with respect to an emergency facility and to begin the 60-month amortization period either with the month following the month in which such facility was completed or acquired, or with the taxable year succeeding the taxable year in which such facility was completed or acquired, shall be made by a statement to that effect in its return for the taxable year in which falls the first month of the 60-month amortization period so elected. However, if the facility is described in section 168(e)(2)(C) and an application for a certificate is filed within the period prescribed by section 9(c) of the Technical Amendments Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 1609) and paragraph (b) of ยง 1.168A-1, the election may be made by a statement in an amended income tax return for the taxable year in which falls the first month of the 60-month amortization period so elected. The statement and amended return in such case must be filed not later than 90 days after the date the certificate is made or not later than April 4, 1960, whichever is later. Amended income tax returns or claims for credit or refund should also be filed for other taxable years which are within such amortization period and which precede the taxable year in which the election is made. Nothing in this paragraph should be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.


(b) *Election not made, in prescribed manner.* If the statement of election is not made by the taxpayer as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, it may, in the discretion of the Commissioner and for good cause shown, be made in such manner and form and within such time as may be approved by the Commissioner.


(c) *Other requirements and considerations.* No method of making such election other than those prescribed in this section and corresponding sections of prior regulations is permitted. Any statement of election should contain a description clearly identifying each emergency facility for which an amortization deduction is claimed. A taxpayer which does not elect, in the manner prescribed in this section or corresponding sections of prior regulations, to take amortization deductions with respect to an emergency facility shall not be entitled to such deductions.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 21, 1960. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 8116, 51 FR 46618, Dec. 24, 1986]




