# § 61.43   Practical tests: General procedures.

(a) Completion of the practical test for a certificate or rating consists of—


(1) Performing the tasks specified in the areas of operation contained in the applicable Airman Certification Standards or Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 61.14) as listed in appendix A of this part for the airman certificate or rating sought;


(2) Demonstrating mastery of the aircraft by performing each task required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section successfully;


(3) Demonstrating proficiency and competency of the tasks required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section within the approved standards; and


(4) Demonstrating sound judgment.


(b) The pilot flight crew complement required during the practical test is based on one of the following requirements that applies to the aircraft being used on the practical test:


(1) If the aircraft's FAA-approved flight manual requires the pilot flight crew complement be a single pilot, then the applicant must demonstrate single pilot proficiency on the practical test.


(2) If the aircraft's type certification data sheet requires the pilot flight crew complement be a single pilot, then the applicant must demonstrate single pilot proficiency on the practical test.


(3) If the FAA Flight Standardization Board report, FAA-approved aircraft flight manual, or aircraft type certification data sheet allows the pilot flight crew complement to be either a single pilot, or a pilot and a copilot, then the applicant may demonstrate single pilot proficiency or have a copilot on the practical test. If the applicant performs the practical test with a copilot, the limitation of “Second in Command Required” will be placed on the applicant's pilot certificate. The limitation may be removed if the applicant passes the practical test by demonstrating single-pilot proficiency in the aircraft in which single-pilot privileges are sought.


(c) If an applicant fails any area of operation, that applicant fails the practical test. 


(d) An applicant is not eligible for a certificate or rating sought until all the areas of operation are passed. 


(e) The examiner or the applicant may discontinue a practical test at any time: 


(1) When the applicant fails one or more of the areas of operation; or 


(2) Due to inclement weather conditions, aircraft airworthiness, or any other safety-of-flight concern. 


(f) If a practical test is discontinued, the applicant is entitled credit for those areas of operation that were passed, but only if the applicant: 


(1) Passes the remainder of the practical test within the 60-day period after the date the practical test was discontinued; 


(2) Presents to the examiner for the retest the original notice of disapproval form or the letter of discontinuance form, as appropriate; 


(3) Satisfactorily accomplishes any additional training needed and obtains the appropriate instructor endorsements, if additional training is required; and 


(4) Presents to the examiner for the retest a properly completed and signed application.


(g) A practical test for an airline transport pilot certificate with category and class rating (if a class rating is required) in an aircraft that requires a type rating or in a flight simulation training device that represents an aircraft that requires a type rating includes the same tasks and maneuvers as a practical test for a type rating.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42549, Aug. 21, 2009; Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30276, June 27, 2018; Docket No. FAA-2022-1463; Amdt. No.61-153, 89 FR 22517, Apr. 1, 2024; FAA-2023-1275; Amdt. No. 61-157, 89 FR 92484, Nov. 21, 2024]






