# § 1.861-14T   Special rules for allocating and apportioning certain expenses (other than interest expense) of an affiliated group of corporations (temporary).

(a) *In general.* Section 1.861-11T provides special rules for allocating and apportioning interest expense of an affiliated group of corporations. The rules of this § 1.861-14T also relate to affiliated groups of corporations and implement section 864(e)(6), which requires affiliated group allocation and apportionment of expenses other than interest which are not directly allocable and apportionable to any specific income producing activity or property. In general, the rules of this section apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the scope of the application of the rule for the allocation and apportionment of such expenses of affiliated groups of corporations. Such rule is then set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section contains the definition of the term “affiliated group” for purposes of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section describes the expenses subject to allocation and apportionment under the rules of this section. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules concerning the affiliated group allocation and apportionment of such expenses in computing the combined taxable income of a FSC or DISC and its related supplier. Paragraph (g) of this section describes the treatment of losses caused by apportionment of such expenses in the case of an affiliated group that does not file a consolidated return. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules concerning the treatment of the reserve expenses of a life insurance company. Paragraph (j) of this section provides examples illustrating the application of this section.


(b) *Scope*—(1) *Application of section 864(e)(6).* Section 864(e)(6) and this section apply to the computation of taxable income for purposes of computing separate limitations on the foreign tax credit under section 904. Section 864(e)(6) and this section also apply in connection with section 907 to determine reductions in the amount allowed as a foreign tax credit under section 901. Section 864(e)(6) and this section also apply to the computation of the combined taxable income of the related supplier and a foreign sales corporation (FSC) (under sections 921 through 927) as well as the combined taxable income of the related supplier and a domestic international sales corporation (DISC) (under sections 991 through 997).


(2) *Nonapplication of section 864(e)(6).* Section 864(e)(6) and this section do not apply to the computation of subpart F income of controlled foreign corporations (under sections 951 through 964) or the computation of effectively connected taxable income of foreign corporations.


(3) *Application of section 864(e)(6) to the computation of combined taxable income of a possessions corporation and its affiliates.* [Reserved]


(c) *General rule for affiliated corporations*—(1) *General rule.* (i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the taxable income of each member of an affiliated group within each statutory grouping shall be determined by allocating and apportioning the expenses described in paragraph (e) of this section of each member according to apportionment fractions which are computed as if all members of such group were a single corporation. For purposes of determining these apportionment fractions, any interaffiliate transactions or property that are duplicative with respect to the measure of apportionment chosen shall be eliminated. For example, in the application of an asset method of apportionment, stock in affiliated corporations shall not be taken into account, and loans between members of an affiliated group shall be treated in accordance with the rules of § 1.861-11T(e). Similarly, in the application of a gross income method of apportionment, interaffiliate dividends and interest, gross income from sales or services, and other interaffiliate gross income shall be eliminated. Likewise, in the application of a method of apportionment based on units sold or sales receipts, interaffiliate sales shall be eliminated.


(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rules of § 1.861-8T apply to the allocation and apportionment of the expenses described in paragraph (e) of this section. Thus, allocation under this paragraph (c) is accomplished by determining, with respect to each expense described in paragraph (e), the class of gross income to which the expense is definitely related and then allocating the deduction to such class of gross income. For this purpose, the gross income of all members of the affiliated group must be taken in account. Then, the expense is apportioned by attributing the expense to gross income (within the class to which the expense has been allocated) which is in the statutory grouping and to gross income (within the class) which is in the residual grouping. Section 1.861-8T(c)(1) identifies a number of factors upon which apportionment may be based, such as comparison of units sold, gross sales or receipts, assets used, or gross income. The apportionment method chosen must be applied consistently by each member of the affiliated group in apportioning the expense when more than one member incurred the expense or when members incurred separate portions of the expense. The apportionment fraction must take into account the apportionment factors contributed by all members of the affiliated group. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations that files a consolidated return, consolidated foreign tax credit limitations are computed for the group in accordance with the rules of § 1.1502-4. For purposes of this section the term “taxpayer” refers to the affiliated group (regardless of whether the group files a consolidated return), rather than to the separate members thereof.


(2) *Expenses relating to fewer than all members.* An expense relates to fewer than all members of an affiliated group if the expense is allocable under paragraph (e)(1) of this section to gross income of at least one member other than the member that incurred the expense but fewer than all members of the affiliated group. The taxable income of the member that incurred the expense shall be determined by apportioning that expense under the rules of paragraph (c)(1) of this section as if the members of the affiliated group that derive gross income to which such expense is allocable under paragraph (e)(1) were treated as a single corporation.


(3) *Prior application of section 482.* The rules of this section do not supersede the application of section 482 and the regulations thereunder. Section 482 may be applied effectively to deny a deduction for an expense to one member of an affiliated group and to allow a deduction for that expense to another member of the affiliated group. In cases to which section 482 is applied, expenses shall be reallocated and reapportioned under section 864(e)(6) and this section after taking into account the application of section 482.


(d)(1)-(2) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(d)(1) and (2).


(e) *Expenses to be allocated and apportioned under this section.* (1) *Expenses not directly traceable to specific income producing activities or property.* (i) For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(e)(1)(i).


(ii) An item of expense is not considered to be directly allocable to specific income producing activities or property solely of the member incurring the expense if, were all members of the affiliated group treated as a single corporation, the expense would not be considered definitely related, within the meaning of § 1.861-8T(b)(2), only to a class of gross income derived solely by the member which actually incurred the expense. Furthermore, the expense is presumed not to be definitely related only to a class of gross income derived solely by the member incurring the expense (and is, therefore, presumed not to be directly allocable to specific income producing activities or property of that member) unless the taxpayer is able affirmatively to establish otherwise. As provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, expenses described in this paragraph (e)(1) generally shall be apportioned by the member incurring the expense according to apportionment fractions computed as if all members of the affiliated group were a single corporation. Under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, however, an expense shall be apportioned according to apportionment fractions computed as if only some (but fewer than all) members of the affiliated group were a single corporation, if the expense is considered allocable to gross income of at least one member other than the member incurring the expense but fewer than all members of the affiliated group. An item of expense shall be considered to be allocable to gross income of fewer than all members of the group if, were all members of the affiliated group treated as a single corporation, the expense would not be considered definitely related within the meaning of § 1.861-8T(b)(2) to gross income derived by all members of the group. In such case, the expense shall be considered allocable, for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, to gross income of those members of the group that generated (or could reasonably be expected to generate) the gross income to which the expense would be considered definitely related if the group were treated as a single corporation.


(2) *Research and experimental expenses.* (i) For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(e)(2)(i) and (ii).


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) *Expenses related to supportive functions.* Expenses which are supportive in nature (such as overhead, general and administrative, supervisory expenses, advertising, marketing, and other sales expenses) are to be allocated and apportioned in accordance with the rules of § 1.861-8T(b)(3). To the extent that such expenses are not directly allocable under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section to specific income producing activities or property of the member of the affiliated group that incurred the expense, such expenses must be allocated and apportioned as if all members of the affiliated group were a single corporation in accordance with the rules of paragraph (c) of this section. Specifically, such expenses must be allocated to a class of gross income that take into account gross income that is generated, has been generated, or could reasonably have been expected to have been generated by the members of the affiliated group. If the expenses relate to the gross income of fewer than all members of the affiliated group as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, then those expenses must be apportioned under the rules of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, as if those fewer members were a single corporation. See *Example* (3) of paragraph (j) of this section. Such expenses must be apportioned between statutory and residual groupings of income within the appropriate class of gross income by reference to the apportionment factors contributed by the members of the affiliated group that are treated as a single corporation.


(4) *Section 250 deduction.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(e)(4).


(5) *Legal and accounting fees and expenses; damages awards, prejudgment interest, and settlement payments.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(e)(5).


(f) *Computation of FSC or DISC combined taxable income.* In the computation under the pricing rules of sections 925 and 994 of the combined taxable income of any FSC or DISC and its related supplier which are members of an affiliated group, the combined taxable income of such FSC or DISC and its related supplier shall be reduced by the portion of the expenses of the affiliated group described in paragraph (e) of this section that is incurred in connection with export sales involving that FSC or DISC. In order to determine the portion of the expenses of the affiliated group that is incurred in connection with export sales by or through a FSC or DISC, the portion of the total of the apportionment factor chosen that relates to the generation of that export income must be determined. Thus, if gross income is the apportionment factor chosen, the portion of total gross income of the affiliated group that consists of combined gross income derived from transactions involving the FSC or DISC and related supplier must be determined. Similarly, if units sold or sales receipts is the apportionment factor chosen, the portion of total units sold or sales receipts that generated export income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier must be determined. The amount of the expense shall then be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the export related apportionment factor as determined above, and the denominator of which is the total apportionment factor. Thus, if gross income is the apportionment factor chosen, apportionment is based on a fraction, the numerator of which is export related combined gross income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier and the denominator of which is the total gross income of the affiliated group. Similarly, if units sold or sales receipts is the apportionment factor chosen, the fraction is the units sold or sales receipts that generated export income of the FSC or DISC and related supplier over the total units sold or sales receipts of the affiliated group. Under this rule, expenses of other group members may be attributed to the combined gross income of a FSC of DISC and its related supplier without affecting the amount of expenses (other than any commission payable by the related supplier to the FSC or DISC) otherwise deductible by the FSC or DISC, the related supplier, or other members of the affiliated group. The FSC or DISC must calculate combined taxable income, taking into account any reduction by expenses attributed from other members of the affiliated group to determine the commission derived by the FSC or DISC or the transfer price of qualifying export property sold to the FSC or DISC.


(g) *Losses created through apportionment.* In the case of an affiliated group that does not file a consolidated return, the taxable income in any separate limitation category must be adjusted under this paragraph (g) for purposes of computing the separate foreign tax credit limitations under section 904(d). As a consequence of the affiliated group allocation and apportionment of expenses required by section 864(e)(6) and this section, expenses of a group member may be apportioned for section 904 purposes to a limitation category with a consequent loss in that limitation category. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “limitation category” includes domestic source income, as well as the types of income described in section 904(d)(1) (A) through (I). A loss of one affiliate in a limitation category will reduce the income of another member in the same limitation category if a consolidated return is filed. (*See* § 1.1502-4.) If a consolidated return is not filed, this netting does not occur. Accordingly, in such a case, the following adjustments among members are required, in order to give effect to the group allocation of expense:


(1) Losses created through group apportionment of expense in one or more limitation categories within a given member must be eliminated; and


(2) A corresponding amount of income of other members in the same limitation category must be recharacterized.


(h) *Special rule for allocation of reserve expenses of life insurance companies.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-14(h).


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Examples.* The rules of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. All of these examples assume that section 482 has not been applied by the Commissioner.


1 Examples 1 and 4 of this paragraph (j) apply to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018.


(k) *Effective/applicability date.* The rules of this section apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986.



---

[N] [T.D. 8228, 53 FR 35501, Sept. 14, 1988, as amended by T.D. 8916, 65 FR 274, Jan. 3, 2001; T.D. 9143, 69 FR 44932, July 28, 2004; T.D. 9211, 70 FR 40663, July 14, 2005; T.D. 9456, 74 FR 38875, Aug. 4, 2009; T.D. 9922, 85 FR 72042, Nov. 12, 2020]






