# ยง 156.110   Exemptions.

(a) The Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, acting for the Commandant, may grant an exemption or partial exemption from compliance with any requirement in this part, and the District Commander may grant an exemption or partial exemption from compliance with any operating condition or requirement in subpart C of this part, if:


(1) The vessel or facility operator submits an application for exemption via the COTP at least 30 days before operations under the exemption are proposed, unless the COTP authorizes a shorter time; and


(2) It is determined, from the application, that:


(i) Compliance with a specific requirement is economically or physically impractical;


(ii) No alternative procedures, methods, or equipment standards exist that would provide an equivalent level of safety and protection from pollution by oil or hazardous material; and 


(iii) The likelihood of oil or hazardous material being discharged as a result of the exemption is minimal. 


(b) If requested, the applicant must submit any appropriate information, including an environmental and economic assessment of the effects of and reasons for the exemption and proposed procedures, methods or equipment standards.


(c) The exemption may specify the procedures, methods, or equipment standards that will apply.


(d) An exemption is granted or denied in writing. The decision of the Assistant Commandant for Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection is a final agency action.



---

[N] [CGD 75-124, 45 FR 7177, Jan. 31, 1980, as amended by CGD 88-052, 53 FR 25122, July 1, 1988; CGD 86-034, 55 FR 36255, Sept. 4, 1990; CGD 93-081, 60 FR 45017, Aug. 29, 1995; CGD 96-026, 61 FR 33666, June 28, 1996; CGD 93-056, 61 FR 41461, Aug. 8, 1996; CGD0 97-023, 62 FR 33364, June 19, 1997; USCG-2002-12471, 67 FR 41333, June 18, 2002]




