# § 1570.109   Submission and approval.

(a) *Submission of security program.* Each owner/operator required under parts 1580, 1582, or 1584 of this subchapter to adopt and carry out a security program must submit it to TSA for approval in a form and manner prescribed by TSA.


(b) *Security training deadlines.* Except as otherwise directed by TSA, each owner/operator required under subpart B to part 1580, 1582, or 1584 of this subchapter to develop a security training program must—


(1) Submit its program to TSA for approval no later than June 21, 2021.


(2) If commencing or modifying operations so as to be subject to the requirements of subpart B to 49 CFR parts 1580, 1582, or 1584 after June 21, 2021, submit a training program to TSA no later than 90 calendar days before commencing new or modified operations.


(c) *TSA approval.* (1) No later than 60 calendar days after receiving the proposed security program required by subpart B to 49 CFR parts 1580, 1582, and 1584, TSA will either approve the program or provide the owner/operator with written notice to modify the program to comply with the applicable requirements of this subchapter. TSA will notify the owner/operator if it needs an extension of time to approve the program or provide the owner/operator with written notice to modify the program to comply with the applicable requirements of this subchapter.


(2) *Notice to modify.* If TSA provides the owner/operator with written notice to modify the security program to comply with the applicable requirements of this subchapter, the owner/operator must provide a modified security program to TSA for approval within the timeframe specified by TSA.


(3) TSA may request additional information, and the owner/operator must provide the information within the time period TSA prescribes. The 60-day period for TSA approval or modification will begin when the owner/operator provides the additional information.


(g) *Petition for reconsideration.* Within 30 days of receiving the notice to modify, the owner/operator may file a petition for reconsideration under § 1570.119 of this part.



---

[N] [85 FR 16499, Mar. 23, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 67683, Oct. 26, 2020; 86 FR 23632, May 4, 2021]




