# ยง 413.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Project Manager* means the Project Manager of the Columbia Basin Project, a Federal reclamation project.


(b) *District* means any one of the irrigation districts organized under the laws of Washington which has contracted with the United States under the Columbia Basin Project Act to repay a portion of the construction cost of the project.


(c) *Settlement lands* means those public lands of the United States within the project or those lands acquired by the United States under the authority of the Columbia Basin Project Act, title to which is vested in the United States and which are being held pending their conveyance in accordance with the project settlement and development program.


(d) *Other project act lands* means those public lands within the project and those lands or interests acquired and being held by the United States under the Columbia Basin Project Act, which are being held other than for conveyance in accordance with the project settlement and development program.


(e) *Rights of way* means lands or interests in lands acquired by the United States under the Federal Reclamation Laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, 43 U. S. C. 391, and acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) for the construction and operation of project works, rights of way, including improvements thereon, reserved to the United States, under the Act of August 30, 1890 (26 Stat. 391; 43 U. S. C. 945) or section 90.40.050 of the Revised Code of Washington and being asserted for project purposes.




