# § 122.38   Permit and special license to unlade and lade.

(a) *Applicability.* Before any passengers, baggage, or merchandise may be unladen or laden aboard on arrival or departure of an aircraft subject to these regulations, a permit and/or special license to unlade or lade shall be obtained from Customs.


(1) *Permit to unlade or lade.* A permit is required to obtain Customs supervision of unlading and lading during official Customs duty hours.


(2) *Special license to unlade or lade.* A special license is required to obtain Customs supervision of unlading and lading at any time not within official Customs duty hours (generally, during overtime hours, Sundays or holidays).


(b) *Authorization required.* A permit or special license shall be required for each arrival and departure unless a term permit or special license has been granted. No permit or special license shall be issued unless the carrier complies with the terminal facilities and employee list requirements of § 4.30 of this chapter.


(c) *Term permit or special license.* A term permit or special license may be issued covering all arrivals and departures during a period of up to one year, providing local arrangements have been made to notify Customs before services are needed. The notice shall specify the kinds of services requested, and the exact times they will be needed. No term permit or special license shall be issued, and any term permit or special license already issued shall be revoked, unless the carrier complies with the terminal facilities and employee list requirements of § 4.30 of this chapter. In addition, a term permit or special license to unlade or lade already issued will not be applicable to any inbound or outbound flight, with respect to which Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has not received the advance electronic cargo information required, respectively, under § 122.48a or § 192.14(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter (see paragraph (g) of this section). 


(d) *Procedures.* The application for a permit and special license to unlade or lade shall be made by the owner, operator, or agent for an aircraft on Customs Form 3171, and shall be submitted to the port director for the airport where the unlading and lading will take place. The application shall be accompanied by a bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter, or a cash deposit, unless this requirement is waived under paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Waiver of bond.* To insure prompt and orderly clearance of the aircraft, passengers, baggage, or merchandise, the port director may waive the requirement under paragraph (d) of this section that either a bond or a cash deposit be made, if he is convinced the revenue is protected and that all Customs requirements are satisfied.


(f) *Automatic renewal of term permit or special license.* Automatic renewal of a term permit or special license may be requested by the owner, operator, or agent for an aircraft when a bond on Customs Form 301 containing the appropriate bond conditions set forth in subpart G of part 113 of this chapter is on file. The request shall be for successive annual periods which conform to the automatic renewal periods of the bond. An application will be approved by the port director unless specific reasons exist for denial. If a request for automatic renewal is not approved, the port director shall notify the requestor, and shall state the reasons for the denial. To apply for automatic renewal, item 10 on Customs Form 3171 shall be changed by adding the following words after the period of time indicated: “And automatic annual renewal thereof for so long as the bond is renewed and remains in effect.”


(g) *Advance receipt of electronic cargo information.* The CBP will not issue a permit to unlade or lade cargo upon arrival or departure of an aircraft, and a term permit or special license already issued will not be applicable to any inbound or outbound flight, with respect to which CBP has not received the advance electronic cargo information required, respectively, under § 122.48a or § 192.14 of this chapter. In cases in which CBP does not receive complete cargo information in the time and manner and in the electronic format required by § 122.48a or § 192.14 of this chapter, as applicable, CBP may delay issuance of a permit or special license to unlade or lade cargo, and a term permit or special license to unlade or lade already issued may not apply, until all required information is received. The CBP may also decline to issue a permit or special license to unlade or lade, and a term permit or special license already issued may not apply, with respect to the specific cargo for which advance information is not timely received electronically, as specified in § 122.48a or § 192.14(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by T.D. 94-2, 58 FR 68526, Dec. 28, 1993; CBP Dec. 03-32, 68 FR 68170, Dec. 5, 2003]




