# ยง 410.1209   Requesting specific consent from ORR regarding custody proceedings.

(a) An unaccompanied child in ORR custody is required to request specific consent from ORR if the child seeks to invoke the jurisdiction of a juvenile court to determine or alter the child's custody status or release from ORR custody.


(b) If an unaccompanied child seeks to invoke the jurisdiction of a juvenile court for a dependency order to petition for Special Immigrant Juvenile (SIJ) classification or to otherwise permit a juvenile court to establish jurisdiction regarding a child's placement and does not seek the juvenile court's jurisdiction to determine or alter the child's custody status or release, the unaccompanied child does not need to request specific consent from ORR.


(c) Prior to a juvenile court determining or altering the unaccompanied child's custody status or release from ORR, attorneys or others acting on behalf of an unaccompanied child must complete a request for specific consent.


(d) ORR shall acknowledge receipt of the request within two business days.


(e) Consistent with its duty to promptly place unaccompanied children in the least restrictive setting that is in the best interest of the child, ORR shall consider whether ORR custody is required to:


(1) Ensure a child's safety; or


(2) Ensure the safety of the community.


(f) ORR shall make determinations on specific consent requests within 60 business days of receipt of a request. When possible, ORR shall expedite urgent requests.


(g) ORR shall inform the unaccompanied child, or the unaccompanied child's attorney or other authorized representative of the decision on the specific consent request in writing, along with the evidence utilized to make the decision.


(h) The unaccompanied child, the unaccompanied child's attorney of record, or other authorized representative may request reconsideration of ORR's denial with the Assistant Secretary for ACF within 30 business days of receipt of the ORR notification of denial of the request. The unaccompanied child, the unaccompanied child's attorney, or authorized representative may submit additional (including new) evidence to be considered with the reconsideration request.


(i) The Assistant Secretary, or their designee, shall consider the request for reconsideration and any additional evidence, and send a final administrative decision to the unaccompanied child, or the unaccompanied child's attorney or other authorized representative, within 15 business days of receipt of the request.






