# ยง 923.122   Objectives.

(a) The objective of assistance provided under this part is to encourage each State with a federally-approved coastal management program to continually improve its program in specified areas of national importance. The Secretary is authorized to make grants to a coastal State for the development and submission for Federal approval of program changes that support attainment of one or more coastal zone enhancement objectives. 


(b) As required by section 309(a) of the Act, for purposes of this part, the term *coastal zone enhancement objective* means any of the following objectives: 


(1) Protection, restoration, or enhancement of the existing coastal wetlands base, or creation of new coastal wetlands. 


(2) Preventing or significantly reducing threats to life and destruction of property by eliminating development and redevelopment in high-hazard areas, managing development in other hazard areas, and anticipating and managing the effects of potential sea level rise and Great Lakes level rise. 


(3) Attaining increased opportunities for public access, taking into account current and future public access needs, to coastal areas of recreational, historical, aesthetic, ecological, or cultural value. 


(4) Reducing marine debris entering the Nation's coastal and ocean environment by managing uses and activities that contribute to the entry of such debris. 


(5) Development and adoption of procedures to assess, consider, and control cumulative and secondary impacts of coastal growth and development, including the collective effect on various individual uses or activities on coastal resources, such as coastal wetlands and fishery resources. 


(6) Preparing and implementing special area management plans for important coastal areas. 


(7) Planning for the use of ocean resources. 


(8) Adoption of procedures and enforceable policies to help facilitate the siting of energy facilities and Government facilities and energy-related activities and Government activities which may be of greater than local significance. 


(9) Adoption of procedures and policies to evaluate and facilitate the siting of public and private aquaculture facilities in the coastal zone, which will enable States to formulate, administer, and implement strategic plans for marine aquaculture.



---

[N] [57 FR 31116, July 14, 1992. Redesignated at 61 FR 33818, June 28, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 12541, Mar. 17, 1997]




