# § 911.105   Terms of indemnification.

The terms of the indemnification agreement must conform to the following provisions: 


(a) *Eligibility.* The State or locality must certify that its law prohibits or has the effect of prohibiting the disclosure of criminal history record information to OPM for the purposes described in § 911.101(a) and that such law was in effect on December 4, 1985. 


(b) *Liability.* (1) OPM must agree to indemnify and hold harmless the State or locality from any claim for damages, costs, and other monetary loss arising from the disclosure or negligent use by OPM of criminal history record information obtained from that State or locality pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 9101(b). The indemnification will include the officers, employees, and agents of the State or locality.


(2) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any act or omission prior to the transmittal of the criminal history record information to OPM. 


(3) The indemnification agreement will not extend to any negligent acts on the part of the State or locality in compiling, transcribing, or failing to delete or purge any of the information transmitted. 


(c) *Consent and access requirements.* By requesting the release of criminal history record information from the State or locality, OPM represents that— 


(1) It has obtained the written consent of the individual under investigation to request criminal history record information about the individual from criminal justice agencies in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 9101, after advising the individual of the purposes for which the information is intended to be used by a Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or an equivalent, notice; and 


(2) Upon request, OPM will provide the individual access to criminal history record information received from the State or locality, as required by 5 U.S.C. 9101(d). 


(d) *Purpose requirements.* OPM will use the criminal history record information only for the purposes stated in § 911.101(a). 


(e) *Notice, litigation, and settlement procedures.* (1) The State or locality must give notice of any claim against it on or before the 10th day after the day on which a claim against it is received, or it has notice of such a claim. 


(2) The notice must be given to the Attorney General and to the United States Attorney of the district embracing the place wherein the claim is made. 


(3) The Attorney General will make all determinations regarding the settlement or defense of such claims.




