# ยง 279.46   Tracking.

(a) *Acceptance.* Used oil transporters must keep a record of each used oil shipment accepted for transport. Records for each shipment must include: 


(1) The name and address of the generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner who provided the used oil for transport; 


(2) The EPA identification number (if applicable) of the generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner who provided the used oil for transport; 


(3) The quantity of used oil accepted; 


(4) The date of acceptance; and 


(5)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, the signature, dated upon receipt of the used oil, of a representative of the generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner who provided the used oil for transport. 


(ii) Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign the record of acceptance. 


(b) *Deliveries.* Used oil transporters must keep a record of each shipment of used oil that is delivered to another used oil transporter, or to a used oil burner, processor/re-refiner, or disposal facility. Records of each delivery must include: 


(1) The name and address of the receiving facility or transporter;


(2) The EPA identification number of the receiving facility or transporter;


(3) The quantity of used oil delivered;


(4) The date of delivery;


(5)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the signature, dated upon receipt of the used oil, of a representative of the receiving facility or transporter. 


(ii) Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign the record of delivery. 


(c) *Exports of used oil.* Used oil transporters must maintain the records described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section for each shipment of used oil exported to any foreign country.


(d) *Record retention.* The records described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section must be maintained for at least three years.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10560, Mar. 4, 1994]




