# § 60.273b   Emission monitoring.

(a) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(b) No continuous monitoring system shall be required on any control device serving the dust-handling system.


(c)(1) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s) is not required:


(i) On any modular, multistack, negative-pressure or positive-pressure fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emission from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer; or


(ii) On any single-stack fabric filter if observations of the opacity of the visible emissions from the control device are performed by a certified visible emission observer and the owner installs and operates a bag leak detection system according to paragraph (e) of this section whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD.


(2) Visible emission observations shall be conducted at least once per day of the control device for at least three 6-minute periods when the furnace is operating in the melting and refining period. All visible emissions observations shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to this part, or, as an alternative, according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271.


(3) If visible emissions occur from more than one point, the opacity shall be recorded for any points where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of the visible emission, only one set of three 6-minute observations will be required. In that case, EPA Method 9 observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Records shall be maintained of any 6-minute average that is in excess of the emission limit specified in § 60.272b(a)(2).


(d) A furnace static pressure monitoring device is not required on any EAF equipped with a DEC system if observations of shop opacity are performed by a certified visible emission observer as follows:


(1) At least once per day when the furnace is operating.


(2) No less than once per week, during the heat cycle as defined in § 60.271b, a melt shop with more than one EAF shall conduct these readings while all EAFs are in operation. All EAFs are not required to be on the same schedule for tapping.


(3) Shop opacity shall be determined as the arithmetic average of 24 consecutive 15-second opacity observations of emissions from the shop taken in accordance with Method 9 during melting and refining and during tapping; and during charging determined according to the procedures in section 2.5 of Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, with the modification as follows: begin reading opacity when charging is first initiated and continue reading until melting and refining begins, or for a minimum of 3 minutes total. From the readings collected, take the average of the highest 12 15-second opacity observations (total of 3 minutes) during this period to determine the 3-minute opacity average associated with charging. For the daily opacity observation during melting and refining, facilities may measure opacity by EPA Method 22 of appendix A of this part, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. As an alternative, facilities may measure the opacity according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), with the caveats described under *Shop opacity* in § 60.271, or, during melting and refining, as the total duration of visible emissions measured according to EPA Method 22 over a 6-minute period, modified to require the recording of the aggregate duration of visible emissions at 15-second intervals. Shop opacity shall be recorded for any point(s) where visible emissions are observed. Where it is possible to determine that a number of visible emission points relate to only one incident of visible emissions, only one observation of shop opacity will be required. In this case, the shop opacity observations must be made for the point of highest opacity that directly relates to the cause (or location) of visible emissions observed during a single incident. Shop opacity shall be determined daily during melting and refining, during charging, and during tapping.


(e) A bag leak detection system must be installed and operated on all single-stack fabric filters whenever the control device is being used to remove particulate matter from the EAF or AOD vessel if the owner or operator elects not to install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system as provided for under paragraph (c) of this section. In addition, the owner or operator shall meet the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. The bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at a concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.


(2) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings and the owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (*e.g.,* using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)


(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will activate when an increase in relative particulate loading is detected over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be identified by the appropriate plant personnel.


(4) For each bag leak detection system required by paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority, for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this paragraph (e)(4). For each bag leak detection system that operates based on the triboelectric effect, the monitoring plan shall be consistent with the recommendations contained in EPA-454/R-98-015, “Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance” (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). The owner or operator shall operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe the following:


(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;


(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established;


(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures;


(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list; and


(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.


(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).


(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided for in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects including temperature and humidity according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (e)(4) of this section.


(ii) If opacities greater than 0 percent are observed over four consecutive 15-second observations during the daily opacity observations required under paragraph (c) of this section and the alarm on the bag leak detection system alarm is not activated, the owner or operator shall lower the alarm set point on the bag leak detection system to a point where the alarm would have been activated during the period when the opacity observations were made.


(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the bag leak detection sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse or upstream of any wet scrubber.


(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.


(f) For each bag leak detection system installed according to paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of all alarms within 1 hour of an alarm. The cause of the alarm must be alleviated within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred by taking whatever response action(s) are necessary. Response actions may include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may have caused an increase in particulate emissions;


(2) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;


(3) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;


(4) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;


(5) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system;


(6) Establishing to the extent acceptable by the delegated authority that the alarm was a false alarm and not caused by a bag leak or other malfunction that could reasonably result in excess particulate emissions; and


(7) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.


(g) In approving the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners or operators more than 24 hours to alleviate specific conditions that cause an alarm if the owner or operator identifies the condition that could lead to an alarm in the monitoring plan, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate the condition within 24 hours of the time the alarm occurred, and demonstrates that the requested additional time will ensure alleviation of the condition as expeditiously as practicable.



---

[N] [88 FR 58487, Aug. 25, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 11207, Feb. 14, 2024]






