# § 420.15   Information requirements.

(a) *General*—(1) *Launch site operator.* An applicant shall identify the name and address of the applicant, and the name, address, and telephone number of any person to whom inquiries and correspondence should be directed. 


(2) *Launch site.* An applicant shall provide the name and location of the proposed launch site and include the following information: 


(i) A list of downrange equipment; 


(ii) A description of the layout of the launch site, including launch points; 


(iii) The types of launch vehicles to be supported at each launch point; 


(iv) The range of launch azimuths planned from each launch point; and 


(v) The scheduled operational date. 


(3) *Foreign ownership.* Identify foreign ownership of the applicant, as follows: 


(i) For a sole proprietorship or partnership, all foreign owners or partners; 


(ii) For a corporation, any foreign ownership interest of 10 percent or more; and 


(iii) For a joint venture, association, or other entity, any foreign entities participating in the entity. 


(b) *Environmental.* The FAA is responsible for complying with the procedures and policies of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other applicable environmental laws, regulations, and Executive Orders prior to issuing a launch site license. An applicant must provide the FAA with information needed to comply with such requirements. The FAA will consider and document the potential environmental effects associated with issuing a launch site license.


(1) *Environmental impact statement or environmental assessment.* When directed by the FAA, an applicant must—


(i) Prepare an Environmental Assessment with FAA oversight;


(ii) Assume financial responsibility for preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement by an FAA-selected and -managed consultant contractor; or


(iii) Submit information to support a written re-evaluation of a previously submitted Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement when requested by the FAA.


(2) *Categorical exclusion.* The FAA may determine that a categorical exclusion is appropriate upon receipt of supporting information from an applicant.


(3) *Environmental information.* An application must include an approved FAA Environmental Assessment, Environmental Impact Statement, categorical exclusion determination, or written re-evaluation covering all planned licensed activities in compliance with NEPA and the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA.


(c) *Launch site location.* (1) Except as provided by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an applicant shall provide the information necessary to demonstrate compliance with §§ 420.19-420.29. 


(2) An applicant who is proposing to locate a launch site at an existing launch point at a federal launch range is not required to comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section if a launch vehicle of the same type and class as proposed for the launch point has been safely launched from the launch point. 


(d) *Explosive site plan.* (1) Except as provided by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an applicant shall submit an explosive site plan that complies with §§ 420.63, 420.65, 420.67, and 420.69. 


(2) If an applicant plans to operate a launch site located on a federal launch range, and if the applicant is required by the federal launch range to comply with the federal launch range's explosive safety requirements, the applicant shall submit the explosive site plan submitted to the federal launch range. 


(e) *Launch site operations.* An applicant shall provide the information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 420.53, 420.55, 420.57, 420.59, 420.61, and 420.71. 



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-1999-5833, 65 FR 62861, Oct. 19, 2000, as amended by Doc. No. FAA-2019-0229, Amdt. 420-9, 85 FR 79716, Dec. 10, 2020]




