# ยง 416.930   Need to follow prescribed treatment.

(a) *What treatment you must follow.* In order to get benefits, you must follow treatment prescribed by your medical source(s) if this treatment is expected to restore your ability to work.


(b) *When you do not follow prescribed treatment.* If you do not follow the prescribed treatment without a good reason, we will not find you disabled or blind or, if you are already receiving benefits, we will stop paying you benefits.


(c) *Acceptable reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.* We will consider your physical, mental, educational, and linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) when determining if you have an acceptable reason for failure to follow prescribed treatment. The following are examples of a good reason for not following treatment:


(1) The specific medical treatment is contrary to the established teaching and tenets of your religion.


(2) The prescribed treatment would be cataract surgery for one eye when there is an impairment of the other eye resulting in a severe loss of vision and is not subject to improvement through treatment.


(3) Surgery was previously performed with unsuccessful results and the same surgery is again being recommended for the same impairment. 


(4) The treatment because of its enormity (e.g., open heart surgery), unusual nature (e.g., organ transplant), or other reason is very risky for you; or


(5) The treatment involves amputation of an extremity, or a major part of an extremity.



---

[N] [45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994; 62 FR 6429, Feb. 11, 1997; 82 FR 5882, Jan. 18, 2017]




