# § 1.13   Filing of petitions for review and notices of appeals of Commission orders.

(a) *Petitions for review involving a judicial lottery pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a).* (1) This paragraph pertains to each party filing a petition for review in any United States court of appeals of a Commission Order pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 402(a) and 28 U.S.C. 2342(1), that wishes to avail itself of procedures established for selection of a court in the case of multiple petitions for review of the same Commission action, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a). Each such party shall, within ten days after the issuance of that order, serve on the Office of General Counsel, by email to the address *LitigationNotice@fcc.gov,* a copy of its petition for review as filed and date-stamped by the court of appeals within which it was filed. Such copies of petitions for review must be received by the Office of General Counsel by 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on the tenth day of the filing period. A return email from the Office of General Counsel acknowledging receipt of the petition for review will constitute proof of filing. Upon receipt of any copies of petitions for review according to these procedures, the Commission shall follow the procedures established in section 28 U.S.C. 2112(a) to determine the court in which to file the record in that case.


(2) If a party wishes to avail itself of procedures established for selection of a court in the case of multiple petitions for review of the same Commission action, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a), but is unable to use email to effect service as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, it shall instead, within ten days after the issuance of the order on appeal, serve a copy of its petition for review in person on the General Counsel in the Office of General Counsel, located at the FCC's main office address indicated in 47 CFR 0.401(a).



 Only parties not represented by counsel may use this method. Such parties must telephone the Litigation Division of the Office of General Counsel beforehand to make arrangements at 202-418-1740. Parties are advised to call at least one day before service must be effected.


(3) Computation of time of the ten-day period for filing copies of petitions for review of a Commission order shall be governed by Rule 26 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. The date of issuance of a Commission order for purposes of filing copies of petitions for review shall be the date of public notice as defined in § 1.4(b) of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR 1.4(b).


(b) *Notices of appeal pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 402(b).* Copies of notices of appeals filed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 402(b) shall be served upon the General Counsel. The FCC consents to—and encourages—service of such notices by email to the address *LitigationNotice@fcc.gov.*


---

[N] [81 FR 40821, June 23, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 64405, Oct. 13, 2020]




