# ยง 52.2470   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State implementation plan for the State of Washington under section 110 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.*

(1) Material listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to February 1, 2024, was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of the approval and notification of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._ Entries in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with EPA approval dates after February 1, 2024, will be incorporated by reference in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region 10 certifies that the rules/regulations provided by the EPA in the SIP compilation at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated State rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the State Implementation Plan as of the dates referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference may be inspected at the Region 10 EPA Office at 1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 155, Seattle, WA 98101. To obtain the material, please call (206) 553-0256. You may inspect the material with an EPA approval date prior to February 1, 2024, for Washington at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

*(c) EPA-approved laws and regulations.*

(d) *EPA-approved state source-specific requirements.*

(e) *EPA approved nonregulatory provisions and quasi-regulatory measures.*


---

[N] [78 FR 17110, Mar. 20, 2013]


