# ยง 2636.305   Compensation and other restrictions relating to professions involving a fiduciary relationship.

(a) *Applicable restrictions.* A covered noncareer employee shall not:


(1) Receive compensation for:


(i) Practicing a profession which involves a fiduciary relationship; or


(ii) Affiliating with or being employed to perform professional duties by a firm, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity which provides professional services involving a fiduciary relationship; or


(2) Permit his name to be used by any firm, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity which provides professional services involving a fiduciary relationship.


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Profession* means a calling requiring specalized knowledge and often long and intensive preparation including instruction in skills and methods as well as in the scientific, historical or scholarly principles underlying such skills and methods. It is characteristic of a profession that those in the profession, through force of organization or concerted opinion, establish and maintain high standards of achievement and conduct, and commit its practitioners to continued study of the field. Consulting and advising with respect to subject matter that is generally regarded as the province of practitioners of a profession shall be considered a profession.


(2) *Profession which involves a fiduciary relationship* means a profession in which the nature of the services provided causes the recipient of those services to place a substantial degree of trust and confidence in the integrity, fidelity and specialized knowledge of the practitioner. Such professions are not limited to those whose practitioners are legally defined as fiduciaries and include practitioners in such areas as law, insurance, medicine, architecture, financial services and accounting. A covered noncareer employee who is uncertain whether a particular field of endeavor is a profession which involves a fiduciary relationship may request an advisory opinion under ยง 2636.103.



---

[N] [56 FR 1723, Jan. 17, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 69176, Dec. 30, 1993]




