# § 98.317   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each titanium dioxide production facility. 

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must retain under this subpart required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37 and the information listed in this paragraph (a):


(1) Records of all calcined petroleum coke purchases.


(2) Annual operating hours for each titanium dioxide process line.


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must retain records for the information listed in this paraghraph:


(1) Records of all calcined petroleum coke purchases (tons).


(2) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted for all reported data as listed in § 98.316(b).


(3) Sampling analysis results for carbon content of consumed calcined petroleum coke (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction).


(4) Sampling analysis results for the carbon content of carbon containing waste (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction), if applicable.


(5) Monthly production of carbon-containing waste (tons).


(6) You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the monthly petroleum coke consumption and quantity of carbon-containing waste measurement including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(7) Annual operating hours for each titanium dioxide process line (hours).


(c) *Verification software records.* You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Carbon content factor for petroleum coke consumed in month from the supplier or as measured by the applicable method incorporated by reference in § 98.7 according to § 98.314(c) (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation EE-2 of § 98.313).


(2) Calcined petroleum coke consumption for process line in month (tons) (Equation EE-2).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 79 FR 63799, Oct. 24, 2014]




