# § 1107.42   Review cycles.

(a) *Initial review cycle.* FDA intends to review the SE Report and either communicate with the applicant as described in § 1107.40 or take an action under § 1107.44 within 90 calendar days of FDA's receipt of the SE Report, or within 90 calendar days of determining that the predicate was found to be commercially marketed (other than for test marketing) in the United States as of February 15, 2007 (if applicable), whichever is later. This 90-day period is called the “initial review cycle.”


(b) *Additional review cycles.* If FDA issues a deficiency notification under § 1107.40(d) during the initial review cycle, FDA will stop reviewing the SE Report until it receives a response from the applicant or the timeframe specified in the notification of deficiencies for response has elapsed. If the applicant fails to respond within the time period provided in the notification of deficiency, FDA will issue an order denying marketing authorization under the criteria set forth in § 1107.48. If the applicant's response to the notification of deficiencies provides the information FDA requested, but FDA identifies additional deficiencies, FDA may issue an additional deficiency notification. Each response will begin a new 90-day review cycle.


(c) *Inadequate response.* If the applicant's response to FDA's deficiency notification(s) does not provide the information FDA requested, or the applicant provides information but the SE Report is still deficient, FDA generally intends to issue an order denying market authorization under the criteria set forth in § 1107.48. At any time before FDA issues an order, an applicant may make a written request to withdraw an SE Report under § 1107.22.




