# ยง 21.7156   Other required reports.

(a) *Reports from veterans and servicemembers.* (1) A veteran or servicemember enrolled full time in a program of education for a standard term, quarter, or semester must report without delay to VA:


(i) A change in his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance if that change would result in less than full-time enrollment;


(ii) Any change in his or her pursuit that would result in less than full-time enrollment; and


(iii) Any interruption or termination of his or her attendance.


(2) A veteran or servicemember not described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must report without delay to VA:


(i) Any change in his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance;


(ii) Any change in his or her pursuit; and


(iii) Any interruption or termination of his or her attendance.


(b) *Interruptions, terminations, or changes in hours of credit or attendance.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an educational institution must report without delay to VA each time a veteran or servicemember:


(i) Interrupts or terminates his or her training for any reason; or


(ii) Changes his or her credit hours or clock hours of attendance.


(2) An educational institution does not need to report a change in a veteran's or servicemember's hours of credit or attendance when:


(i) The veteran or servicemember is enrolled full time in a program of education for a standard term, quarter, or semester before the change;


(ii) The veteran or servicemember continues to be enrolled full time after the change; and


(iii) The tuition and fees charged to the servicemember have not been adjusted as a result of the change.


(3) If the change in status or change in number of credit hours or clock hours of attendance occurs on a day other than one indicated by paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section, the educational institution will initiate a report of the change in time for VA to receive it within 30 days of the date on which the change occurs.


(4) If the educational institution has certified the veteran's or servicemember's enrollment for more than one term, quarter or semester and the veteran or servicemember interrupts his or her training at the end of a term, quarter or semester within the certified enrollment period, the educational institution shall report the change in status to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days of the last officially scheduled registration date for the next term, quarter or semester.


(5) If the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance occurs during the 30 days of a drop-add period, the educational institution must report the change in status or change in the number of hours of credit or attendance to VA in time for VA to receive the report within 30 days from the last date of the drop-add period or 60 days from the first day of the enrollment period, whichever occurs first.


(c) *Nonpunitive grades.* (1) An educational institution may assign a nonpunitive grade for a course or subject in which the veteran or servicemember is enrolled even though the veteran or eligible person does not withdraw from the course or subject. When this occurs, the educational institution must report the assignment of the nonpunitive grade in a form prescribed by the Secretary in time for VA to receive it before the earlier of the following dates is reached:


(i) Thirty days from the date on which the educational institution assigns the grade, or


(ii) Sixty days from the last day of the enrollment period for which the nonpunitive grade is assigned.


(2) If the veteran or servicemember is enrolled in a course which does not lead to a standard college degree and for which a monthly certification of attendance is required, the educational institution may use the monthly certification of attendance to report nonpunitive grades provided VA will receive the report within the time period stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Attendance records.* Nothing in this section or in any section in 38 CFR part 21 shall be construed as requiring any institution of higher learning to maintain daily attendance records for any course leading to a standard college degree.



---

[N] [55 FR 28391, July 11, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 15026, Apr. 24, 1992; 63 FR 14038, Mar. 24, 1998]




