# § 422.262   Beneficiary premiums.

(a) *Determination of MA monthly basic beneficiary premium.* (1) For an MA plan with an unadjusted statutory non-drug bid amount that is less than the relevant unadjusted non-drug benchmark amount, the basic beneficiary premium is zero.


(2) For an MA plan with an unadjusted statutory non-drug bid amount that is equal to or greater than the relevant unadjusted non-drug benchmark amount, the basic beneficiary premium is the amount by which (if any) the bid amount exceeds the benchmark amount. All approved basic premiums must be charged; they cannot be waived.


(b) *Consolidated monthly premiums.* Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, MA organizations must charge enrollees a consolidated monthly MA premium.


(1) The consolidated monthly premium for an MA plan (other than a MSA plan) is the sum of the MA monthly basic beneficiary premium (if any), the MA monthly supplementary beneficiary premium (if any), and the MA monthly prescription drug beneficiary premium (if any).


(2) *Special rule for MSA plans.* For an individual enrolled in an MSA plan offered by an MA organization, the monthly beneficiary premium is the supplemental premium (if any).


(c) *Uniformity of premiums*—(1) *General rule.* Except as permitted for supplemental premiums pursuant to § 422.106(d), for MA contracts with employers and labor organizations, the MA monthly bid amount submitted under § 422.254, the MA monthly basic beneficiary premium, the MA monthly supplemental beneficiary premium, the MA monthly prescription drug premium, and the monthly MSA premium of an MA organization may not vary among individuals enrolled in an MA plan (or segment of the plan as provided for local MA plans under paragraph (c)(2) of this section). In addition, the MA organization cannot vary the level of cost-sharing charged for basic benefits or supplemental benefits (if any) among individuals enrolled in an MA plan (or segment of the plan).


(2) *Segmented service area option.* An MA organization may apply the uniformity requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to segments of an MA local plan service area (rather than to the entire service area) as long as such a segment is composed of one or more MA payment areas. The information specified under § 422.254 is submitted separately for each segment. This provision does not apply to MA regional plans.


(d) *Monetary inducement prohibited.* An MA organization may not provide for cash or other monetary rebates as an inducement for enrollment or for any other reason or purpose.


(e) *Timing of payments.* The MA organization must permit payments of MA monthly basic and supplemental beneficiary premiums and monthly prescription drug beneficiary premiums on a monthly basis and may not terminate coverage for failure to make timely payments except as provided in § 422.74(b).


(f) *Beneficiary payment options.* An MA organization must permit each enrollee, at the enrollee's option, to make payment of premiums (if any) under this part to the organization through-


(1) Withholding from the enrollee's Social Security benefit payments, or benefit payments by the Railroad Retirement Board or the Office of Personnel Management, in the manner that the Part B premium is withheld;


(2) An electronic funds transfer mechanism (such as automatic charges of an account at a financial institution or a credit or debit card account);


(3) According to other means that CMS may specify, including payment by an employer or under employment-based retiree health coverage on behalf of an employee, former employee (or dependent), or by other third parties such as a State.


(i) Regarding the option in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, MA organizations may not impose a charge on beneficiaries for the election of this option.


(ii) An enrollee may opt to make a direct payment of premium to the plan.


(g) *Prohibition on improper billing of premiums.* MA organizations shall not bill an enrollee for a premium payment period if the enrollee has had the premium for that period withheld from his or her Social Security, Railroad Retirement Board or Office of Personnel Management check.


(h) *Retroactive collection of premiums.* In circumstances where retroactive collection of premium amounts is necessary and the enrollee is without fault in creating the premium arrearage, the Medicare Advantage organization shall offer the enrollee the option of payment either by lump sum, by equal monthly installment spread out over at least the same period for which the premiums were due, or through other arrangements mutually acceptable to the enrollee and the Medicare Advantage organization. For monthly installments, for example, if 7 months of premiums are due, the member would have at least 7 months to repay.



---

[N] [63 FR 18134, Apr. 14, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 1541, Jan. 12, 2009]




