# § 653.108   State Workforce Agency and State Monitor Advocate responsibilities.

(a) State Administrators must ensure their SWAs monitor their own compliance with ES regulations in serving MSFWs on an ongoing basis. The State Administrator has overall responsibility for SWA self-monitoring. The State Administrator and ES staff must not retaliate against staff, including the SMA, for self-monitoring or raising any issues or concerns regarding noncompliance with the ES regulations.


(b) The State Administrator must appoint an SMA who must be a SWA official. The State Administrator must inform farmworker organizations and other organizations with expertise concerning MSFWs of the opening and encourage them to refer qualified applicants to apply. Among qualified candidates, the SWAs must seek and put a strong emphasis on hiring persons:


(1) Who are from MSFW backgrounds; or


(2) Who speak the language of a significant proportion of the State MSFW population; or


(3) Who have substantial work experience in farmworker activities.


(c) The SMA must be an individual who:


(1) Is a senior-level ES staff employee;


(2) Reports directly to the State Administrator or State Administrator's designee, such as a director or other appropriately titled official in the State Administrator's office, who has the authority to act on behalf of the State Administrator, except that if a designee is selected, they must not be the individual who has direct program oversight of the ES; and


(3) Has the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to fulfill the responsibilities as described in this subpart.


(d) The SMA must have sufficient authority, staff, resources, and access to top management to monitor compliance with the ES regulations. Staff assigned to the SMA are intended to help the SMA carry out the duties set forth in this section and must not perform work that conflicts with any of the SMA's duties, such as outreach responsibilities required by § 653.107, ARS processing under subpart F of this part, and complaint processing under subpart E of part 658. The number of ES staff positions assigned to the SMA must be determined by reference to the number of MSFWs in the State, (as measured at the time of the peak MSFW population), and the need for monitoring activity in the State.


(e) The SMA must devote full-time staffing to the SMA functions described in this section. No State may dedicate less than full-time staffing for the SMA position, unless the Regional Administrator, with input from the Regional Monitor Advocate, provides written approval. Any State that proposes less than full-time dedication must demonstrate to the Regional Administrator and Regional Monitor Advocate that all SMA functions can be effectively performed with part-time staffing. The SMA must not perform work that conflicts with any of the SMA's duties, such as outreach responsibilities required by § 653.107, ARS processing under subpart F of this part, and complaint processing under subpart E of part 658.


(f) All SMAs and their staff must attend training session(s) offered by the Regional Monitor Advocate(s) and National Monitor Advocate and their staff and those necessary to maintain competency and enhance the SMA's understanding of the unique needs of farmworkers. Such trainings must include those identified by the SMA's Regional Monitor Advocate and may include those offered by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department's Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Immigrant and Employee Rights Section of the Department of Justice's Civil Rights Division, the Department's Civil Rights Center, and other organizations offering farmworker-related information.


(g) The SMA must provide any relevant documentation requested from the SWA by the Regional Monitor Advocate or the National Monitor Advocate.


(h) The SMA must:


(1) Conduct an ongoing review of the delivery of services and protections afforded by the ES regulations to MSFWs by the SWA and ES offices. This includes:


(i) Monitoring compliance with § 653.111;


(ii) Monitoring the ES services that the SWA and one-stop centers provide to MSFWs to assess whether they are qualitatively equivalent and quantitatively proportionate to the services that the SWA and one-stop centers provide to non-MSFWs; and


(iii) Reviewing the appropriateness of informal resolution of complaints and apparent violations as documented in the complaint logs.


(2) Without delay, must advise the SWA and ES offices of problems, deficiencies, or improper practices in the delivery of services and protections afforded by these regulations and, if warranted, specify the corrective action(s) necessary to address these deficiencies. When the SMA finds corrective action(s) necessary, the ES Office Manager or other appropriate ES staff must develop a corrective action plan in accordance with the requirements identified at paragraph (h)(3)(v) of this section. The SMA also must advise the SWA on means to improve the delivery of services.


(3) Participate in on-site reviews of one-stop centers on a regular basis (regardless of whether or not they are designated significant MSFW one-stop centers) using the procedures set forth in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) Before beginning an onsite review, the SMA or review staff must study:


(A) Program performance data;


(B) Reports of previous reviews;


(C) Corrective action plans developed as a result of previous reviews;


(D) Complaint logs, as required by the regulations under part 658 of this chapter, including logs documenting the informal resolution of complaints and apparent violations; and


(E) Complaints elevated from the office or concerning the office.


(ii) The SMA must ensure that the onsite review format, developed by ETA, is used as a guideline for onsite reviews.


(iii) Upon completion of an onsite monitoring review, the SMA must hold one or more wrap-up sessions with the ES Office Manager and staff to discuss any findings and offer initial recommendations and appropriate technical assistance.


(iv) After each review, the SMA must conduct an in-depth analysis of the review data. The conclusions, including findings and areas of concern and recommendations of the SMA, must be put in writing and must be sent directly to the State Administrator, to the official of the SWA with authority over the ES office, and other appropriate SWA officials.


(v) If the review results in any findings of noncompliance with the regulations under this chapter, the SMA's report must include the necessary corrective action(s). To resolve the findings, the ES Office Manager or other appropriate ES staff must develop and propose a written corrective action plan. The plan must be approved or revised by SWA officials and the SMA. The plan must include the actions required to correct any compliance issues within 30 business days or, if the plan allows for more than 30 business days for full compliance, the length of and the reasons for the extended period and the major interim steps to correct the compliance issues must be specifically stated. SWAs are responsible for assuring and documenting that the ES office is in compliance within the time period designated in the plan.


(vi) SWAs must submit to the appropriate ETA regional office copies of the onsite review reports and corrective action plans for ES offices.


(vii) The SMA may delegate the review described in paragraph (h)(3) of this section to the SMA's staff, if the SMA finds such delegation necessary. In such event, the SMA is responsible for and must approve the written report of the review.


(4) Ensure all significant MSFW one-stop centers not reviewed onsite by Federal staff are reviewed at least once per year by the SMA or their staff, and that, if necessary, those ES offices in which significant problems are revealed by required reports, management information, the Complaint System, or other means are reviewed as soon as possible.


(5) Review and approve the SWA's AOP.


(6) On a regular basis, review outreach staff's daily logs and other reports including those showing or reflecting the outreach staff's activities.


(7) Write and submit annual summaries to the State Administrator with a copy to the Regional Administrator and the National Monitor Advocate.


(i) The SMA must participate in Federal reviews conducted pursuant to part 658, subpart G, of this chapter, as requested by the Regional or National Monitor Advocate.


(j) The SMA must monitor the performance of the Complaint System, as set forth at §§ 658.400 and 658.401 of this chapter. The SMA must review the ES office's informal resolution of complaints relating to MSFWs and must ensure that the ES Office Manager transmits copies of the Complaint System logs pursuant to part 658, subpart E, of this chapter to the SWA.


(k) The SMA must serve as an advocate to improve services for MSFWs.


(l) The SMA must establish an ongoing liaison with WIOA sec. 167 National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP) grantees and other organizations serving farmworkers, employers, and employer organizations in the State.


(m) The SMA must establish an ongoing liaison with the State-level Equal Opportunity (E.O.) Officer.


(n) The SMA must meet (either in person or by alternative means), at minimum, quarterly, with representatives of the organizations pursuant to paragraphs (l) and (m) of this section, to receive input on improving coordination with ES offices or improving the coordination of services to MSFWs. To foster such collaboration, the SMAs must communicate freely with these organizations. The SMA must also establish Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the NFJP grantees and may establish MOUs with other organizations serving farmworkers as appropriate.


(o) The SMA must conduct frequent field visits to the working, living, and gathering areas of MSFWs, and must discuss the SWA's provision of ES services and other employment-related programs with MSFWs, crew leaders, and employers. Records must be kept of each such field visit.


(p) The SMA must participate in the appropriate regional public meeting(s) held by the Department of Labor Regional Farm Labor Coordinated Enforcement Committee, other Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Wage and Hour Division task forces, and other committees as appropriate.


(q) The SMA must ensure that outreach efforts in all significant MSFW one-stop centers are reviewed at least yearly. This review will include accompanying at least one outreach staff from each significant MSFW one-stop center on field visits to MSFWs' working, living, and/or gathering areas. The SMA must review findings from these reviews with the ES Office Managers.


(r) The SMA must review on at least a quarterly basis all statistical and other MSFW-related data reported by ES offices in order:


(1) To determine the extent to which the SWA has complied with the ES regulations; and


(2) To identify the areas of non-compliance.


(s) The SMA must have full access to all statistical and other MSFW-related information gathered by SWAs and ES offices and may interview ES staff with respect to reporting methods. After each review, the SMA must consult, as necessary, with the SWA and ES offices and provide technical assistance to ensure accurate reporting.


(t) The SMA must review and comment on proposed State ES directives, manuals, and operating instructions relating to MSFWs and must ensure:


(1) That they accurately reflect the requirements of the regulations; and


(2) That they are clear and workable. The SMA also must explain and make available at the requestor's cost, pertinent directives and procedures to employers, employer organizations, farmworkers, farmworker organizations, and other parties expressing an interest in a readily identifiable directive or procedure issued and receive suggestions on how these documents can be improved.


(u) The SMA must prepare for the State Administrator, the Regional Monitor Advocate, and the National Monitor Advocate an Annual Summary describing how the State provided ES services to MSFWs within the State based on statistical data, reviews, and other activities as required in this chapter. The summary must include:


(1) A description of the activities undertaken during the program year by the SMA pertaining to their responsibilities set forth in this section and other applicable regulations in this chapter.


(2) An assurance that the SMA is a senior-level official who reports directly to the State Administrator or the State Administrator's designee as described at paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) An evaluation of SMA staffing levels, including:


(i) An assurance the SMA devotes all of their time to Monitor Advocate functions or, if the SMA conducts their functions on a part-time basis, an assessment of whether all SMA functions are able to be effectively performed on a part-time basis; and


(ii) An assessment of whether the performance of SMA functions requires increased time by the SMA (if part-time) or an increase in the number of ES staff assigned to assist the SMA in the performance of SMA functions, or both.


(4) A summary of the monitoring reviews conducted by the SMA, including:


(i) A description of any problems, deficiencies, or improper practices the SMA identified in the delivery of services;


(ii) A summary of the actions taken by the SWA to resolve the problems, deficiencies, or improper practices described in its service delivery; and


(iii) A summary of any technical assistance the SMA provided for the SWA, ES offices, and outreach staff.


(5) A summary and analysis of the outreach efforts undertaken by all significant and non-significant MSFW one-stop centers, as well as the results of those efforts, and an analysis of whether the outreach levels and results were adequate.


(6) A summary of the State's actions taken under the Complaint System described in part 658, subpart E, of this chapter, identifying any challenges, complaint trends, findings from reviews of the Complaint System, trainings offered throughout the year, and steps taken to inform MSFWs and employers, and farmworker advocacy groups about the Complaint System.


(7) A summary of how the SMA is working with WIOA sec. 167 NFJP grantees, the State-level E.O. Officer, and other organizations serving farmworkers, employers, and employer organizations in the State, and an assurance that the SMA is meeting at least quarterly with these individuals and representatives of these organizations.


(8) A summary of the statistical and other MSFW-related data and reports gathered by SWAs and ES offices for the year, including an overview of the SMA's involvement in the SWA's reporting systems.


(9) A summary of the training conducted for ES staff on techniques for accurately reporting data.


(10) A summary of activities related to the AOP and an explanation of whether those activities helped the State reach the objectives described in the AOP. At the end of the 4-year AOP cycle, the summary must include a synopsis of the SWA's achievements over the previous 4 years to accomplish the objectives set forth in the AOP, and a description of the objectives which were not achieved and the steps the SWA will take to address those deficiencies.


(11) For significant MSFW one-stop centers, a summary of the State's efforts to comply with § 653.111.



---

[N] [88 FR 82727, Nov. 24, 2023]






