# § 7.2003   National bank shareholder meetings; Board of directors meetings.

(a) *Notice of shareholders' meetings.* A national bank must mail shareholders notice of the time, place, and purpose of all shareholders' meetings at least 10 days prior to the meeting by first class mail, unless the OCC determines that an emergency circumstance exists. Where a national bank is a wholly-owned subsidiary, the sole shareholder is permitted to waive notice of the shareholder's meeting. The articles of association, bylaws, or law applicable to a national bank may require a longer period of notice.


(b) *Annual meeting for election of directors.* When the day fixed for the regular annual meeting of the shareholders falls on a legal holiday in the State in which the bank is located, the shareholders' meeting must be held, and the directors elected, on the next following banking day.


(c) *Virtual participation at shareholder meetings*—(1) *In general.* A national bank may provide for telephonic or electronic participation at shareholder meetings.


(2) *Procedures.* A national bank must follow the procedures for telephonic or electronic participation in a shareholder meeting of the corporate governance provisions it has elected to follow pursuant to § 7.2000(b), if those elected provisions include telephonic or electronic participation procedures; the Delaware General Corporation Law, Del. Code Ann. Tit. 8 (1991, as amended 1994, and as amended thereafter); or the Model Business Corporation Act, provided, however, that such procedures are not inconsistent with applicable Federal statutes and regulations and safety and soundness. The national bank must indicate the use of these procedures in its bylaws.


(d) *Virtual participation at board of directors meetings.* A national bank may provide for telephonic or electronic participation at a meeting of its board of directors.



---

[N] [85 FR 83734, Dec. 22, 2020]




