# § 63.5850   How do I conduct performance tests, performance evaluations, and design evaluations?

(a) If you are using any add-on controls to meet an organic HAP emissions limit in this subpart, you must conduct each performance test, performance evaluation, and design evaluation in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, that applies to you. The basic requirements for performance tests, performance evaluations, and design evaluations are presented in Table 6 to this subpart. 


(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and under the specific conditions that 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, specifies. 


(c) Each performance evaluation must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) as applicable and under the specific conditions that 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, specifies. 


(d) You may not conduct performance tests or performance evaluations during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1). 


(e) You must conduct the control device performance test using the emission measurement methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) Use either Method 1 or 1A of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to select the sampling sites. 


(2) Use Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F or 2G of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate. 


(3) Use Method 18 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 to measure organic HAP emissions or use Method 25A of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 to measure total gaseous organic emissions as a surrogate for total organic HAP emissions. If you use Method 25A, you must assume that all gaseous organic emissions measured as carbon are organic HAP emissions. If you use Method 18 and the number of organic HAP in the exhaust stream exceeds five, you must take into account the use of multiple chromatographic columns and analytical techniques to get an accurate measure of at least 90 percent of the total organic HAP mass emissions. Do not use Method 18 to measure organic HAP emissions from a combustion device; use instead Method 25A and assume that all gaseous organic mass emissions measured as carbon are organic HAP emissions.


(4) You may use American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) D6420-99 (available for purchase from at least one of the following addresses: 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; or University Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48106.) in lieu of Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, under the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) If the target compound(s) is listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-99 and the target concentration is between 150 parts per billion by volume and 100 parts per million by volume. 


(ii) If the target compound(s) is not listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-99, but is potentially detected by mass spectrometry, an additional system continuing calibration check after each run, as detailed in Section 10.5.3 of ASTM D6420-99, must be followed, met, documented, and submitted with the performance test report even if you do not use a moisture condenser or the compound is not considered soluble. 


(iii) If a minimum of one sample/analysis cycle is completed at least every 15 minutes. 


(5) Use the procedures in EPA Method 3B of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 to determine an oxygen correction factor if required by § 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C). You may use American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) PTC 19-10-1981-Part 10 (available for purchase from ASME, P.O. Box 2900, 22 Law Drive, Fairfield, New Jersey, 07007-2900, or online at *www.asme.org/catalog*) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. 


(f) The control device performance test must consist of three runs and each run must last at least 1 hour. The production conditions during the test runs must represent normal production conditions with respect to the types of parts being made and material application methods. The production conditions during the test must also represent maximum potential emissions with respect to the organic HAP content of the materials being applied and the material application rates. 


(g) If you are using a concentrator/oxidizer control device, you must test the combined flow upstream of the concentrator, and the combined outlet flow from both the oxidizer and the concentrator to determine the overall control device efficiency. If the outlet flow from the concentrator and oxidizer are exhausted in separate stacks, you must test both stacks simultaneously with the inlet to the concentrator to determine the overall control device efficiency. 


(h) During the test, you must also monitor and record separately the amounts of production resin, tooling resin, pigmented gel coat, clear gel coat, and tooling gel coat applied inside the enclosure that is vented to the control device. 




