# § 213.2   Definitions.

(a) *Office.* The Trade Remedy Assistance Office (hereinafter *Office*) provides general information to the public, upon request, and, to the extent feasible, assistance and advice to interested parties concerning the remedies and benefits available under the trade laws identified in § 213.2(b) and the procedures to be followed and appropriate filing dates in investigations under those trade laws. In coordination with other agencies responsible for administering the trade laws listed in § 213.2(b), the Office also provides technical assistance, as defined in § 213.2(d) to eligible small businesses that seek to obtain remedies and benefits under the trade laws. The Office's address is Trade Remedy Assistance Office, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436.


(b) *Trade laws.* The trade laws (with respect to which general information and technical assistance are available) are defined as:


(1) Chapter 1 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2251 *et seq.,* relating to injury caused by import competition);


(2) Chapters 2 and 3 of such title II (relating to adjustment assistance for workers and firms);


(3) Chapter 1 of title III of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2411 *et seq.,* relating to relief from foreign import restrictions and export subsidies);


(4) Title VII of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1671 *et seq.,* relating to the imposition of countervailing duties and antidumping duties);


(5) Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1862, relating to the safeguarding of national security);


(6) Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1337, relating to unfair practices in import trade); and 


(7) Section 406 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2436, relating to market disruption).


(c) *Administering agencies.* Administering agency refers to the agency or agencies responsible for administering a particular trade law. The trade laws relating to injury caused by import competition, unfair practices in import trade and market disruption are administered by the Commission. The trade laws relating to countervailing and antidumping duties are jointly administered by the Commission and the Department of Commerce. The trade laws relating to adjustment assistance for firms and safeguarding national security are administered by the Department of Commerce. The trade law relating to adjustment assistance for workers is administered by the Department of Labor. The trade law relating to relief from foreign import restrictions and export subsidies is administered by the United States Trade Representative.


(d) *Technical assistance.* Technical assistance is informal advice and assistance, including informal legal advice, provided under 19 U.S.C. 1339(b) and intended to enable eligible small businesses to determine the appropriateness of pursuing particular trade remedies, to prepare petitions and complaints and to seek to obtain the remedies and benefits available under the trade laws identified in § 213.2(b). Technical assistance is available to eligible small businesses at any time until the completion of administrative review or of an appeal to the administering agency regarding proceedings under the trade laws listed in § 213.2(b). Technical assistance does not include legal representation of an eligible small business or advocacy on its behalf and receipt of technical assistance does not ensure that the recipient will prevail in any trade remedy proceeding. The Office provides such technical assistance independently of other Commission staff but may consult with other staff as appropriate.


(e) *Applicant.* An applicant is an individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, trade or other association, cooperative, group of workers, or certified or recognized union, or other entity that applies for technical assistance under this part.


(f) *Eligible small business.* An eligible small business is an applicant that the Office has determined to be entitled to technical assistance under 19 U.S.C. 1339(b) in accordance with the SBA size standards and the procedures set forth in this part.


(g) *SBA size standards.* The Office has adopted for its use SBA size standards, which are the small business size standards of the Small Business Administration set forth in 13 CFR part 121.



---

[N] [54 FR 33883, Aug. 17, 1989, as amended at 80 FR 39380, July 9, 2015




