# § 63.3891   What are my options for meeting the emission limits?

You must include all coatings (as defined in § 63.3981), thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the affected source when determining whether the organic HAP emission rate is equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890. To make this determination, you must use at least one of the three compliance options listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may apply any of the compliance options to an individual coating operation, or to multiple coating operations as a group, or to the entire affected source. You may use different compliance options for different coating operations, or at different times on the same coating operation. You may employ different compliance options when different coatings are applied to the same part, or when the same coating is applied to different parts. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same coating operation. If you switch between compliance options for any coating operation or group of coating operations, you must document this switch as required by § 63.3930(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in § 63.3920. 


(a) *Compliant material option.* Demonstrate that the organic HAP content of each coating used in the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, and that each thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used contains no organic HAP. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.3940, 63.3941, and 63.3942 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit using this option. 


(b) *Emission rate without add-on controls option.* Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s), the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.3950, 63.3951, and 63.3952 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using this option. 


(c) *Emission rate with add-on controls option.* Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation(s), and the emissions reductions achieved by emission capture systems and add-on controls, the organic HAP emission rate for the coating operation(s) is less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, calculated as a rolling 12-month emission rate and determined on a monthly basis. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all emission capture systems and add-on control devices for the coating operation(s) meet the operating limits required in § 63.3892, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j), and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.3893. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.3960 through 63.3968 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option. 




