# § 423.572   Timeframes and notice requirements for expedited coverage determinations.

(a) *Timeframe for determination and notification.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a Part D plan sponsor that approves a request for expedited determination must make its determination and notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its decision, whether adverse or favorable, as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 24 hours after receiving the request. For an exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 24 hours after receipt of the physician's or other prescriber's supporting statement. If a supporting statement is not received by the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request, the Part D plan sponsor must notify the enrollee (and the prescribing physician or other prescriber involved, as appropriate) of its determination as expeditiously as the enrollee's health condition requires, but no later than 24 hours from the end of 14 calendar days from receipt of the exceptions request.


(b) *Confirmation of oral notice.* If the Part D plan sponsor first notifies an enrollee of an adverse or favorable expedited determination orally, it must mail written confirmation to the enrollee within 3 calendar days of the oral notification.


(c) *Content of the notice of expedited determination.* (1) If the determination is completely favorable to the enrollee, the notice must explain the conditions of the approval in a readable and understandable form.


(2) If the determination is not completely favorable to the enrollee, the notice must—


(i) Use approved language in a readable and understandable form;


(ii) State the specific reasons for the denial;


(iii) Inform the enrollee of his or her right to a redetermination;


(iv) Describe—


(A) Both the standard and expedited redetermination processes, including the enrollee's right to request an expedited redetermination;


(B) Conditions for obtaining an expedited redetermination; and


(C) Other aspects of the appeal process.


(d) *Effect of failure to meet the adjudicatory timeframes.* If the Part D plan sponsor fails to notify the enrollee of its determination in the timeframe specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the failure constitutes an adverse coverage determination, and the Part D plan sponsor must forward the enrollee's request to the IRE within 24 hours of the expiration of the adjudication timeframe.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 1564, Jan. 12, 2009; 75 FR 19823, Apr. 15, 2010; 84 FR 15843, Apr. 16, 2019]




