# ยง 51.3414   Application of standards.

In the application of these standards to determine the percentages of potatoes in any lot which meet the requirements of the respective grades or size categories, tolerances do not apply. However, for lots which are graded or pre-sorted for size or quality, offered for inspection and required to meet one of the grades, the following tolerances, by weight, are provided:


(a) For defects:


(1) *U.S. No. 1 Processing.* 10 percent for potatoes which fail to meet the requirements of this grade including not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, for serious damage by any means, including therein not more than 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown.


(2) *U.S. No. 2 Processing.* 10 percent for potatoes which fail to meet the requirements of this grade including not more than one-half of this tolerance, or 5 percent, for potatoes which are seriously damaged by internal defects occurring entirely within the vascular ring, including therein not more than 2 percent for potatoes which are frozen or affected by soft rot or wet breakdown.


(b) For loose sprouts, dirt and foreign material: 2 percent.


(c) For off-size:


(1) *Undersize.* 3 percent when the minimum size specified is less than 2
1/4 inches in diameter or less than 5 ounces in weight; and 5 percent when the minimum size specified is 2
1/4 inches or more in diameter or 5 ounces or more in weight.


(2) *Oversize.* 10 percent.




