# ยง 60.41   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act, and in subpart A of this part.


*Boiler operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time in the steam-generating unit. It is not necessary for fuel to be combusted the entire 24-hour period.


*Coal* means all solid fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 60.17).


*Coal refuse* means waste-products of coal mining, cleaning, and coal preparation operations (e.g. culm, gob, etc.) containing coal, matrix material, clay, and other organic and inorganic material.


*Fossil fuel* means natural gas, petroleum, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such materials for the purpose of creating useful heat.


*Fossil fuel and wood residue-fired steam generating unit* means a furnace or boiler used in the process of burning fossil fuel and wood residue for the purpose of producing steam by heat transfer.


*Fossil-fuel-fired steam generating unit* means a furnace or boiler used in the process of burning fossil fuel for the purpose of producing steam by heat transfer.


*Natural gas* means a fluid mixture of hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane, or propane), composed of at least 70 percent methane by volume or that has a gross calorific value between 35 and 41 megajoules (MJ) per dry standard cubic meter (950 and 1,100 Btu per dry standard cubic foot), that maintains a gaseous state under ISO conditions. In addition, *natural gas* contains 20.0 grains or less of total sulfur per 100 standard cubic feet. Finally, natural gas does not include the following gaseous fuels: landfill gas, digester gas, refinery gas, sour gas, blast furnace gas, coal-derived gas, producer gas, coke oven gas, or any gaseous fuel produced in a process which might result in highly variable sulfur content or heating value.


*Wood residue* means bark, sawdust, slabs, chips, shavings, mill trim, and other wood products derived from wood processing and forest management operations.



---

[N] [72 FR 32717, June 13, 2007, as amended at 77 FR 9447, Feb. 16, 2012]




