# § 1252.103   Definitions.

As used in these regulations, the term:


(a) *Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended. (Title III of Pub. L. 94-135.)


(b) *Action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.


(c) *Age* means how old a person is, or the number of elapsed years from the date of a person's birth.


(d) *Age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term.


(e) *Age-related term* means a word or words which necessarily imply a particular age or range of ages (for example, “children,” “adult,” “older persons,” but not “student”).


(f) *Discrimination* means unlawful treatment based on age.


(g) *NASA* means the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.


(h) *Federal financial assistance* means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the agency provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of:


(1) Funds;


(2) Services of Federal personnel; or interest in or use of property, including:


(i) Transfer or lease of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(i) *FMCS* means the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.


(j) *Recipient* means any State or its political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or its political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. Recipient includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but excludes the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.


(k) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration or designee.


(l) *Subrecipient* means any of the entities in the definition of “recipient” to which a recipient extents or passes on Federal financial assistance. A subrecipient is generally regarded as a recipient of Federal financial assistance and has all the duties of a recipient in these regulations.


(m) *United States* means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Canal Zone, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marianas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.


(n) *Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (n)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (n)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.



---

[N] [50 FR 13311, Apr. 4, 1985, as amended at 68 FR 51351, Aug. 26, 2003]




