# § 232.13   Date of filing; adjustment of filing date.

(a) *General.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the business day on which a filing is received by the Commission shall be the date of filing thereof, if: 


(i) All requirements of the Acts and rules applicable to such filing have been complied with; 


(ii) The filing conforms to the applicable technical standards regarding electronic format in the EDGAR Filer Manual; and 


(iii) With respect to Securities Act filings, including filings under section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-24(f)), the required fee payment has been confirmed, *provided that* the failure to pay an insignificant amount of the fee at the time of the filing, as a result of a *bona fide* error, shall not affect the date of filing. 


(2) If the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section are otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted by direct transmission commencing on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day, and all filings submitted by direct transmission commencing after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed as of the next business day. 


(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto filed pursuant to § 230.462(b) of this chapter (Rule 462(b)) by direct transmission commencing on or before 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day.






(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a Form 3, 4, or 5 (referenced in §§ 249.103, 249.104, and 249.105 of this chapter, respectively), a Schedule 14N (referenced in § 240.14n-101 of this chapter), a Form 144 (referenced in § 239.144 of this chapter), or a Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G, inclusive of any amendments thereto (§§ 240.13d-101 and 240.13d-102 of this chapter), submitted by direct transmission commencing on or before 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, whichever is currently in effect, shall be deemed filed on the same business day.




(b) *Adjustment of the filing date.* If an electronic filer in good faith attempts to file a document with the Commission in a timely manner but the filing is delayed due to technical difficulties beyond the electronic filer's control, the electronic filer may request an adjustment of the filing date of such document. The Commission, or the staff acting pursuant to delegated authority, may grant the request if it appears that such adjustment is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. 


(c) *Payment of fees.* Fees required with respect to a filing that is submitted electronically shall be paid in accordance with the procedures set forth in Instructions for Filing Fees—Rule 3a of the Commission's Informal and Other Procedures (§ 202.3a of this chapter). 


(d) Where the Commission's rules, schedules and forms provide that a document must be filed on the same day it is published, furnished, sent or given to security holders or others, an electronic filer may file the document with the Commission electronically before or on the date the document is published, furnished, sent or given, or if such publication or distribution does not occur during the official business hours of the Commission, as soon as practicable on the next business day. Any associated time periods shall be calculated on the basis of the publication or distribution date (as applicable), and not on the basis of the date of filing.



---

[N] [58 FR 14670, Mar. 18, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 67761, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 26618, May 17, 1995; 62 FR 47938, Sept. 12, 1997; 64 FR 61451, Nov. 10, 1999; 68 FR 25799, May 13, 2003; 75 FR 56780, Sept. 16, 2010; 86 FR 70200, Dec. 9, 2021; 88 FR 12209, Feb. 27, 2023; 88 FR 76981, Nov. 7, 2023]




