# ยง 1744.65   The construction fund.

(a) The construction fund is used by the borrower primarily to hold advances until disbursed.


(b) All advances shall be deposited in the construction fund.


(c) RUS may require that other funds be deposited in the construction fund. These may include equity or general fund contributions to construction, service termination payments, proceeds from the sale of property, amounts recovered from insurance for losses during the construction period, and interest received on loan funds in savings or interest bearing checking accounts, and similar receipts. Deposit slips for any deposit to the construction fund shall show the source and amount of funds deposited and be executed by an authorized representative of the bank.


(d) Funds shall be disbursed only up to the amount approved for advance on the FRS as described in ยง 1744.66. No funds may be withdrawn from the fund except for loan purposes approved by RUS.


(e) The disbursement of nonloan funds requires the same RUS approvals as loan funds.


(f) Disbursements must be evidenced by canceled checks. The invoices and supporting documentation needed for construction contracts are specified in the contracts and in 7 CFR part 1753. Disbursements to reimburse the borrower's general funds shall be documented by a reimbursement schedule, *to be retained in the borrower's files,* that lists the construction fund check number, date, and an explanation of amounts reimbursed by budget account.




