# § 875.101   Definitions.

This part is written as if the reader were an applicant or enrollee. Accordingly, the terms “you,” “your,” etc., refer, as appropriate, to the applicant or enrollee.


In this part, the terms *annuitant, employee, member of the uniformed services, retired member of the uniformed services,* and *qualified relative* have the meanings set forth in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, and supplement the following definitions: 


*Abbreviated underwriting* is a type of underwriting that asks fewer questions about your health status than with full underwriting to enable the Carrier to determine whether your application for coverage will be approved. The Carrier may also require review of your medical records, a phone interview, or an in-home interview. 


*Actively at work* means:


(1) That as an active workforce member other than a member of the uniformed services you meet all of the following conditions:


(i) You are reporting for work at an approved work location and you work at least one-half of your regularly scheduled hours for that day; and


(ii) You are able to perform all the usual and customary duties of your employment on your regular work schedule.


(2) For a member of the uniformed services, that you are on active duty and are physically able to perform the duties of your position.


*Carrier* means a “qualified carrier” as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, with which OPM has contracted to provide long term care insurance coverage under this section. A Carrier may designate one or more administrators to perform some of its obligations.




*Domestic partner* is defined as a person in a domestic partnership with an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, or retired member of the uniformed services.


*Domestic partnership* means:


(1) A committed relationship between two adults, of the opposite sex or same sex, in which the partners—


(i) Are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain so indefinitely;


(ii) Maintain a common residence, and intend to continue to do so (or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle);


(iii) Are at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent to a contract;


(iv) Share responsibility for a significant measure of each other's financial obligations;


(v) Are not married or joined in a civil union to anyone else;


(vi) Are not a domestic partner of anyone else;


(vii) Are not related in a way that would prohibit legal marriage in the U.S. jurisdiction in which the domestic partnership was formed;


(viii) Provide documentation demonstrating fulfillment of the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i) through (vii) of this definition as prescribed by OPM; and


(ix) Certify that they understand that willful falsification of the documentation described in paragraph (1)(viii) of this definition may lead to disciplinary action and the recovery of the cost of benefits received related to such falsification and may constitute a criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001.


(2) You or your domestic partner must notify the employing office if at any time between the time of application and the time coverage is scheduled to go into effect, any of the conditions listed in paragraphs (1)(i) through (vii) of this definition are no longer met, in which case a domestic partnership is deemed terminated. Such notification must be made as soon as possible, but in no event later than thirty calendar days after such conditions are no longer met.




*Eligible individual* means an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, retired member of the uniformed services or qualified relative, as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code.




*Enrollee* means an eligible individual whose application for coverage the Carrier has approved and whose coverage is in effect. 


*FLTCIP* means the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program. 


*Free look* means that within 30 days after you are approved for coverage and receive the Benefit Booklet, you may cancel that coverage if you are not satisfied with it and receive a refund of any premium you paid for that coverage. It will be as if the coverage was never issued.




*Full underwriting* is the more comprehensive type of underwriting under the FLTCIP, which requires that you answer many questions about your health status to enable the Carrier to determine whether your application for coverage will be approved. The Carrier may also require review of your medical records, a phone interview, or an in-home interview. 


*Special application period* is a period in which active workforce members and their spouses may apply based on abbreviated underwriting. Such application periods will be provided for pursuant to OPM's authority in section 9008 of title 5, United States Code.




*Stepchild(ren),* as set forth in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code, means the child(ren) of the spouse or domestic partner of an employee, annuitant, member of the uniformed services, or retired member of the uniformed services.


*Stepparent* means any person, other than your mother or father, who is currently married to one of your parents, or, if one of your parents is dead, a person who was married to that parent at the time of that parent's death. 


*Underwriting requirements* means the information about your current health status and history and other information that you must provide to the Carrier with your application for coverage to enable the Carrier to determine your insurability. 


*Workforce member* means a Federal civilian or Postal employee, member of the uniformed services, Federal annuitant, retired member of the uniformed services, or member of any other eligible group, as defined in section 9001 of title 5, United States Code. An active workforce member is one who is currently employed or is on active duty.



---

[N] [68 FR 5534, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 30606, May 27, 2005; 80 FR 66786, Oct. 30, 2015; 81 FR 10057, Feb. 29, 2016; 87 FR 68597, Nov. 16, 2022]






