# ยง 160.1   Definitions of general terms.

The terms as defined in section 2 of the Naval Stores Act shall apply with equal force and effect when used in the provisions in this part. In addition, unless the context requires otherwise, the terms hereinafter set forth shall be defined respectively as follows: 


(a) *Act.* The Naval Stores Act of March 3, 1923 (42 Stat. 1435; 7 U.S.C. 91-99). 


(b) *Department.* The United States Department of Agriculture. 


(c) *Administrator.* The Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead. 


(d) *Official inspector.* Any person designated or licensed by the Secretary to sample, examine, analyze, classify or grade naval stores. 


(e) *Licensed inspector.* A person licensed by the Administrator upon recommendation of an accredited processor to act as an official inspector with respect to naval stores produced at an eligible processing plant of such processor. 


(f) *Eligible processing plant.* A plant which on examination by the Administrator has been found to be designed, operated, and staffed so as to permit proper samplings and inspections of the naval stores produced thereat, and where a substantial proportion of the output comes from oleoresin obtained from trees growing on land not owned or leased by the processor himself, or from oleoresin contained within felled trees or stumps removed from such land. 


(g) *Accredited processor.* Any person owning or having charge of or jurisdiction over the operation of an eligible processing plant, to whom a permit has been issued under these regulations to have inspections of naval stores made by a licensed inspector. 


(h) *Interested person.* Any person who is a party to a factual or prospective transaction in a specific lot of naval stores, whether as producer, seller, shipper, dealer, or purchaser thereof; or any person who in the opinion of the Administrator has sufficient and proper interest in the analysis, classification, grading, or sale of naval stores to merit the loan and use of duplicates of the United States Standards. 


(i) *Dealer.* Any person who sells or ships in commerce any naval stores produced by a person other than himself. 


(j) *Cooperative agreement.* A written agreement between the Department and any person specifying the conditions under which special inspection personnel may be designated and procedures established, not otherwise available under existing inspection programs, in order to make possible a continuous, day-by-day inspection of naval stores for such person, or to provide facilities for carrying out experimental studies on authentic naval stores related to the inspection and marketing thereof. 


(k) *Standards.* The official Naval Stores Standards of the United States for classification and grading of spirits of turpentine and rosin. 


(l) *Analysis.* Any examination by physical, chemical, or sensory methods. 


(m) *Classification.* Designation as to kind of spirits of turpentine or rosin. 


(n) *Grading.* Determination of the grade of turpentine or rosin by comparison with the standards. 


(o) *Certificate.* The official certificate issued under the provisions of the act and the provisions in this part to show the results of any examination, analysis, classification, or grading of naval stores by an official inspector. 


(p) *Label.* Any word, combination of words, coined or trade name, picturization of any natural scene or article, or any limitation thereof, applied to, superimposed upon, impressed into, or in any other manner attached to a container of naval stores or other article coming within the scope of the act, by which the nature, kind, quality, or quantity of the contents of such container may be indicated. 


(q) *Container.* Any receptacle in which naval stores are placed for inspection or distribution in commerce; includes barrel, drum, tank, tank car, bag, bottle, can, or other receptacle. 



---

[N] [11 FR 14665, Dec. 27, 1946, as amended at 17 FR 221, Jan. 9, 1952; 20 FR 6433, Sept. 1, 1955; 46 FR 47055, Sept. 24, 1981; 47 FR 3344, Jan. 25, 1982]




