# § 1786.201   Definitions and rules of construction.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).


*Borrower* means any organization which has an outstanding note(s) evidencing electric or telephone loans guaranteed by RUS, from FFB.


*Business day* means any such day on which both the Federal Financing Bank and Federal Reserve Bank—New York are open for business.


*Electric loan* means a loan made by FFB and guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act for electric service.


*FFB* means the Federal Financing Bank, an instrumentality and wholly owned corporation of the United States.


*Government* means the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service. 


*Loan guarantee* means RUS's guarantee under section 306 of the RE Act of a loan from FFB. 


*Payment date* means the date that payment is due and is the last day in a calendar quarter. 


*Prepayment penalty* means the same as prepayment premium. 


*Prepayment premium* shall have the meaning set forth at § 1786.207. 


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*). 


*REA* means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs. 


*Refinancing note* shall have the meaning set forth at § 1786.206. 


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.


*RUS loan contract* means the agreement, as amended, supplemented, or restated from time to time, between a borrower and RUS providing for loans or loan guarantees pursuant to the RE Act. 


*RUS mortgage* means collectively those mortgages and security agreements made by and between the borrower and the Government, securing indebtedness evidencing electric and telephone loans or loan guarantees made pursuant to RE Act. The term includes such mortgages regardless whether third parties are mortgagees with RUS. 


*Supplemental lender* means a private lender whose loan to the borrower is secured under an RUS mortgage. 


*Telephone loan* means a loan made by FFB and guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act for telephone service. 


(b) *Rules of construction.* Unless the context shall otherwise indicate, the terms defined in paragraph (a) of this section include the plural as well as the singular, and the singular as well as the plural. The words “herein,” “hereof” and “hereunder”, and words of similar import, refer to this subpart as a whole. 



---

[N] [58 FR 51008, Sept. 30, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994]




