# ยง 420.203   How does the FHWA define the terms used in this subpart?

Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and subpart A of this part, are applicable to this subpart. As used in this subpart: 


*Applied research* means the study of phenomena to gain knowledge or understanding necessary for determining the means by which a recognized need may be met; the primary purpose of this kind of research is to answer a question or solve a problem. 


*Basic research* means the study of phenomena, and of observable facts, without specific applications towards processes or products in mind; the primary purpose of this kind of research is to increase knowledge. 


*Development* means the systematic use of the knowledge or understanding gained from research, directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. 


*Final report* means a report documenting a completed RD&T study or activity. 


*Intermodal RD&T* means research, development, and technology transfer activities involving more than one mode of transportation, including transfer facilities between modes. 


*Peer exchange* means a periodic review of a State DOT's RD&T program, or portion thereof, by representatives of other State DOT's, for the purpose of exchange of information or best practices. The State DOT may also invite the participation of the FHWA, and other Federal, State, regional or local transportation agencies, the Transportation Research Board, academic institutions, foundations or private firms that support transportation research, development or technology transfer activities. 


*RD&T activity* means a basic or applied research project or study, development or technology transfer activity. 


*Research* means a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. Research can be basic or applied. 


*Technology transfer* means those activities that lead to the adoption of a new technique or product by users and involves dissemination, demonstration, training, and other activities that lead to eventual innovation. 


*Transportation Research Information Services (TRIS)* means the database produced and maintained by the Transportation Research Board and available online through the National Transportation Library. TRIS includes bibliographic records and abstracts of on-going and completed RD&T activities. TRIS Online also includes links to the full text of public-domain documents. 




