# § 2.311   Special rules governing certain information obtained under the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


(1) *Act* means the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 1901 *et seq.*

(2) *Average fuel economy* has the meaning given it in section 501(4) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001(4).


(3) *Fuel economy* has the meaning given it in section 501(6) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001(6).


(4) *Fuel economy data* means any measurement or calculation of fuel economy for any model type and average fuel economy of a manufacturer under section 503(d) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2003(d).


(5) *Manufacturer* has the meaning given it in section 501(9) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001(9).


(6) *Model type* has the meaning given it in section 501(11) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001(11).


(b) *Applicability.* This section applies only to information provided to or obtained by EPA under Title V, Part A of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 2001 through 2012. Information will be considered to have been provided or obtained under Title V, Part A of the Act if it was provided in response to a request from EPA made for any purpose stated in Title V, Part A, or if its submission could have been required under Title V Part A, regardless of whether Title V Part A was cited as the authority for any request for information or whether the information was provided directly to EPA or through some third person.


(c) *Basic rules which apply without change.* Sections 2.201 through 2.207 and §§ 2.209 through 2.215 apply without change to information to which this section applies.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Substantive criteria for use in confidentiality determinations.* Section 2.208 applies without change to information to which this section applies, except that information this is fuel economy data is not eligible for confidential treatment. No information to which this section applies is voluntarily submitted information.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Disclosure of information relevant to a proceeding.* (1) Under section 505(d)(1) of the Act, any information to which this section applies may be released by EPA because of the relevance of the information to a proceeding under Title V, Part A of the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the information otherwise might be entitled to confidential treatment under this subpart. Release of information to which this section applies because of its relevance to a proceeding shall be made only in accordance with this paragraph (g).


(2) The provisions of § 2.301(g)(2) are to be used as paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(3) The provisions of § 2.301(g)(3) are to be used as paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(4) The provisions of § 2.301(g)(4) are to be used as paragraph (g)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [50 FR 51663, Dec. 18, 1985]




