# § 774.1   Introduction.

(a) *Scope of the control list.* In this part, references to the EAR are references to 15 CFR chapter VII, subchapter C. The Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) maintains the Commerce Control List (CCL) that includes “items”—i.e., “commodities,” “software,” and “technology”—subject to the authority of BIS. The CCL does not include items exclusively controlled for export by another department or agency of the U.S. Government, though in instances where other agencies administer controls over related items, entries in the CCL may contain a reference to such controls. In addition, those items “subject to the EAR” but not identified on the CCL are identified by the designator “EAR99.” See § 734.2(a) of the EAR for items that are “subject to the EAR.” EAR Part 738 contains an explanation of the organization of the CCL and its relationship to the Country Chart.


(b) *ECCN cross-references for items subject to exclusive jurisdiction of another agency.* (1) Prior to October 15, 2013, the CCL contained certain ECCNs that were only included as cross references to items subject to the export control regulations administered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.


(2) ECCNs formerly listed on the CCL that, as of October 15, 2013 were subject to the export licensing authority of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission at 10 CFR part 110 are: 0A001, 0B001, 0B002, 0B003, 0B004, 0B005, 0B006, 0C001, 0C002, 0C004, 0C005, 0C006, 0C201 and 1C012.


(3) The following multilateral export control regime reference is provided, as an additional point of historical reference: 0C201—INFCIRC 254 Part 1, 5.3.1(b).


(c) *Where to find the CCL?* The CCL is contained in supplement no. 1 to this part, and supplement no. 2 to this part contains the General Technology and Software Notes relevant to entries contained in the CCL.


(d) *Conventions related to the use of quotation marks on the CCL.* The use of double quotation marks on the CCL is intended to be an aid to alert you to terms used on the CCL that are defined in part 772 (Definitions of Terms), or for purposes of ECCNs, where a definition is provided in the “related definitions” paragraph in the License Requirements section of ECCNs or sometimes in Notes and Technical Notes for particular ECCNs and that definition is specific to that particular ECCN. In this sense the quotes are helpful both in the use of single and double quotes, but a good compliance practice is to familiarize yourself with the defined terms in part 772, and when reviewing a control parameter on the CCL that uses a term that is not in quotes to be aware it may be defined in part 772. It is also a useful compliance practice to review the “Related Definitions” paragraph and Notes and Technical Notes to determine if the term is defined for purposes of a particular ECCN.


(1) *Use of double quotes.* If a term on the CCL uses double quotes it means there is a defined term in part 772. However, the absence of double quotes does not mean that a term used on the CCL is not defined in part 772. Because the CCL includes many terms that are defined in part 772, BIS's practice is to use double quotes for certain key terms and to use double quotes when needed for consistency with multilateral export control regime based entries, such as many derived from control lists, in particular for the Wassenaar Arrangement that also uses the double quotes convention. However, because of the large number of defined terms used on the CCL and a desire to avoid hindering readability by placing quotes around too many words used in particular ECCNs, BIS's practice is to not add double quotes around certain terms, such as items and commodities. This convention also applies to the use of double quotes within the Definition of Terms section under part 772.


(2) *Use of single quotes.* The CCL also includes a convention regarding the use of single quotes. Single quotes on the CCL identify a term as a defined term in the context of a particular ECCN. This convention also applies to the use of single quotes within the Definition of Terms section under part 772.


(e) *Chemicals identified by Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) number.* In some instances chemicals are listed by name and CAS number. The list applies to chemicals of the same structural formula (including hydrates) regardless of name or CAS number. CAS numbers are shown to assist in identifying a particular chemical or mixture, irrespective of nomenclature. CAS numbers cannot be used as unique identifiers because some forms of the listed chemical have different CAS numbers, and mixtures containing a listed chemical may also have different CAS numbers.



---

[N] [78 FR 61903, Oct. 4, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 32627, June 5, 2014; 81 FR 64679, Sept. 20, 2016]




