# § 1357.50   Direct payments to Indian Tribal organizations (title IV-B, subpart 2, family preservation and support services).

(a) *Definitions.*

*Alaska Native Organization* means any organized group of Alaska Natives eligible to operate a Federal program under the Indian Self-Determination Act (Pub. L. 93-638) or such group's designee as defined in section 482(i)(7)(A) of the Act. 


*Indian Tribe* means any Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and for which a reservation (including Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma) exists. 


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of the Indian Tribe. 


(b) *Eligibility for funds: FY 1994.* (1) Section 432(b)(2) of the Act provides that the Secretary may not approve a plan of an Indian Tribe whose FY 1995 allotment under subpart 2 would be less than $10,000. Therefore, only those Indian Tribes whose FY 1995 allotment is $10,000 or more are eligible to receive funds beginning in FY 1994. 


(2) ACF will pay any amount to which an Indian Tribe is entitled to the Tribal organization of the Indian Tribe. 


(c) *Eligibility for funds: FY 1995.* In order to receive funds under title IV-B, subpart 2, in FY 1995, an Indian Tribe that is eligible for planning funds in FY 1994 must submit a Child and Family Services Plan that meets the applicable requirements in section 1357.15 of this Part. 


(d) *Eligibility for funds: FY 1996 through FY 1998.* (1) ACF will make grants to additional Indian Tribes in Fys 1996 through 1998 in the event that there are increased appropriations. 


(2) Allotments will be calculated in Fys 1996, 1997, and 1998 as required in section 433 of the Act. Those Indian Tribes in each year whose allotment is at least $10,000 will be notified of their eligibility to apply. 


(3) In order to receive funds, additional Indian Tribes which become eligible for grants in FY 1996, 1997, and 1998 must submit either a five year Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP) that meets the applicable requirements of 45 CFR 1357.15 or an application for planning funds by June 30 of the year in which they first become eligible for grants. Those Indian Tribes which submitted an application for planning funds in their first year of funding must submit a five year CFSP that meets the applicable requirements of 45 CFR 1357.15 by June 30 of the second year they receive funding. For example, in order to receive funds, an Indian Tribe which becomes eligible to receive funding beginning in FY 1996 must submit either an application for planning funds or a CFSP by June 30, 1996. If the Indian Tribe submitted an application for planning funds in FY 1996, they must submit a CFSP by June 30, 1997. 


(4) All Indian Tribes will be Federally reimbursed at 75 percent of allowable expenditures. Federal funds without match are available in the first year of receipt of funds for additional Indian Tribes meeting the following criteria: 


(i) Submittal of an application for planning funds, and not a five year CFSP; 


(ii) Receipt of an initial award in FY 1996 or 1997 or 1998; and 


(iii) A proposal to spend the entire grant in the first year on planning.


(e) *Allotments.* Allotments to Indian Tribes are computed based on section 433 of the Act and are based on a ratio of the number of children in each Indian Tribe with an approved plan compared to the number of children in all Indian Tribes with approved plans, based on the most current and reliable data available. 


(f) *Exemptions of requirements.* (1) ACF has exempted Indian Tribes from three statutory requirements: 


(i) The limitation on administrative costs to 10 percent of total Federal and Tribal funds—Indian Tribes may use the indirect cost rate agreement in effect for the Tribe; 


(ii) The requirement for maintenance of effort that funds under this program may not be used to supplant other Federal and non-Federal funds; and 


(iii) The requirement that a significant portion of funds must be used for both family support and family preservation services. 


(2) Specific exemptions from other statutory requirements may be requested by the Tribe in the course of its joint planning. Such a request must contain a compelling reason. 


(g) *Matching requirement.* (1) Funds used to provide services in FY 1994 and in subsequent years will be federally reimbursed at 75 percent of allowable expenditures. (This is the same Federal financial participation rate as title IV-B, subpart 1.) The Indian Tribe's match must be at least 25 percent of the total project costs or one-third of the Federal share. Federal funds, however, will not exceed the amount of the Indian Tribe's allotment. 


(2) The Indian Tribe's contribution may be in cash, donated funds, and non-public third party in-kind contributions. 


(3) Indian Tribes, by statute, may use the following three Federal sources of funds as matching funds: Indian Child Welfare Act funds, Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act funds, and Community Development Block Grant funds. 


(h) *Time limits on expenditures.* An Indian Tribe must expend all funds by September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the funds were awarded.



---

[N] [61 FR 58662, Nov. 18, 1996]




