# § 1717.600   General.

(a) *General.* The loan contract and mortgage between the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) and electric borrowers imposes certain restrictions and controls on the borrowers and gives RUS (and other co-mortgagees in the case of the mortgage) the right to approve or disapprove certain actions contemplated by the borrowers. Certain of these controls and approval rights are referred to informally as “operational controls” because they pertain to decisions or actions with respect to the operation of the borrowers' electric systems. The approval authority granted to RUS by the loan contract or mortgage regarding each decision or action subject to controls is often stated in broad, unlimited terms. This subpart lists the main operational controls affecting borrowers and establishes for each area of control the circumstances under which RUS approval of a decision or action by a borrower is either required or not required. In some cases, only the general principles or general circumstances pertaining to RUS approval or control are presented in this subpart, while the details regarding the circumstances and requirements of RUS approval or control are set forth in other RUS regulations. Since this subpart addresses only the main operational controls, failure to address a control or approval right in this subpart in no way invalidates such controls or rights established by the loan contract, mortgage, other agreements between a borrower and RUS, and RUS regulations. 


(b) *Case by case amendments.* Upon written notice to a borrower, RUS may amend or annul the approvals and exceptions to controls set forth in this subpart or other RUS regulations if the borrower is in violation of any provision of its loan documents or any other agreement with RUS, or if RUS determines that loan security and/or repayment is threatened. Such amendment or annulment will apply to decisions and actions of the borrower after said written notice has been provided by RUS. 


(c) *Generic notices.* By written notice to all borrowers or a group of borrowers, RUS may grant or waive approval of decisions and actions by the borrowers that are controlled under the loan documents and RUS regulations. RUS may also by written notice withdraw or cut back its grant or waiver of approval of said decisions and actions made by previous written notice, but may not by such notice extend its authority to approve decisions and actions by borrowers beyond the authority granted by the loan documents and RUS regulations. 




