# § 1.1001-4   Modifications of certain derivative contracts.

(a) *Certain assignments.* For purposes of § 1.1001-1(a), the transfer or assignment of a derivative contract is not treated by the nonassigning counterparty as a deemed exchange of the original contract for a modified contract that differs materially either in kind or in extent if—


(1) Both the party transferring or assigning its rights and obligations under the derivative contract and the party to which the rights and obligations are transferred or assigned are either a dealer or a clearinghouse;


(2) The terms of the derivative contract permit the transfer or assignment of the contract, whether or not the consent of the nonassigning counterparty is required for the transfer or assignment to be effective; and


(3) The terms of the derivative contract are not otherwise modified in a manner that results in a taxable exchange under section 1001.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Dealer.* For purposes of this section, a *dealer* is a taxpayer who meets the definition of a dealer in securities in section 475(c)(1) or is a dealer in commodities derivative contracts.


(2) *Clearinghouse.* For purposes of this section, a *clearinghouse* is a derivatives clearing organization (as such term is defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a)) or a clearing agency (as such term is defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))) that is registered, or exempt from registration, under each respective Act.


(3) *Derivative contract.* For purposes of this section, a *derivative contract* is a contract described in—


(i) Section 475(c)(2)(D), 475(c)(2)(E), or 475(c)(2)(F) without regard to the last sentence of section 475(c)(2) referencing section 1256;


(ii) Section 475(e)(2)(B), 475(e)(2)(C), or 475(e)(2)(D); or


(iii) Section 1.446-3(c)(1).


(c) *Consideration for the assignment.* Any payment between a party transferring or assigning its rights and obligations under the contract and the party to which the rights and obligations are transferred or assigned pursuant to a transfer or assignment described in paragraph (a) of this section will not affect the treatment of the nonassigning counterparty for purposes of this section. A payment described in the preceding sentence made or received to transfer or assign rights and obligations under a notional principal contract (as defined in § 1.446-3(c)(1)) is not subject to § 1.446-3(g)(4).


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to transfers or assignments of derivative contracts on or after July 22, 2011.



---

[N] [T.D. 9639, 78 FR 66640, Nov. 6, 2013]




