# ยง 2604.401   Policy.

(a) *Foreseeable harm standard.* A requested record will not be withheld from inspection or copying unless it comes within one of the classes of records exempted by 5 U.S.C. 552 and OGE reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption described in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) or is prohibited by law. Nothing in this paragraph requires disclosure of information that is otherwise prohibited from disclosure by law, or otherwise exempted from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(3).


(b) *Pledge of confidentiality.* Information obtained from any individual or organization, furnished in reliance on a provision for confidentiality authorized by applicable statute, Executive Order or regulation, will not be disclosed to the extent it can be withheld under one of the exemptions. However, this paragraph (b) does not itself authorize the giving of any pledge of confidentiality by any officer or employee of OGE.


(c) *Exception for law enforcement information.* OGE may treat records compiled for law enforcement purposes as not subject to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act when:


(1) The investigation or proceeding involves a possible violation of criminal law;


(2) There is reason to believe that the subject of the investigation or proceeding is unaware of its pendency; and


(3) The disclosure of the existence of the records could reasonably be expected to interfere with the enforcement proceedings.


(d) *Partial application of exemptions.* Any reasonably segregable portion of a record will be provided to any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions which are exempt under this subpart.



---

[N] [80 FR 57073, Sept. 22, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 94216, Dec. 23, 2016]




