# § 124.2   Exemptions for training and military service.

(a) Technical assistance agreements are not required for the provision of training in the basic operation and maintenance of defense articles lawfully exported or authorized for export to the same recipient. This does not include training in intermediate and depot level maintenance. 


(b) Services performed as a member of the regular military forces of a foreign nation by U.S. persons who have been drafted into such forces are not deemed to be defense services for purposes of § 120.32 of this subchapter. 


(c) NATO countries, Australia, Japan, and Sweden, in addition to the basic maintenance training exemption provided in § 124.2(a) and basic maintenance information exemption in § 125.4(b)(5) of this subchapter, no technical assistance agreement is required for maintenance training or the performance of maintenance, including the export of supporting technical data, when the following criteria can be met:


(1) Defense services are for unclassified U.S.-origin defense articles lawfully exported or authorized for export and owned or operated by and in the inventory of NATO or the Federal Governments of NATO countries, Australia, Japan or Sweden.


(2) This defense service exemption does not apply to any transaction involving defense services for which congressional notification is required in accordance with § 123.15 and § 124.11 of this subchapter. 


(3) Maintenance training or the performance of maintenance must be limited to inspection, testing, calibration or repair, including overhaul, reconditioning and one-to-one replacement of any defective items, parts or components; and excluding any modification, enhancement, upgrade or other form of alteration or improvement that enhances the performance or capability of the defense article. This does not preclude maintenance training or the performance of maintenance that would result in enhancements or improvements only in the reliability or maintainability of the defense article, such as an increased mean time between failure (MTBF).


(4) Supporting technical data must be unclassified and must not include software documentation on the design or details of the computer software, software source code, design methodology, engineering analysis, or manufacturing know-how.


(5) This defense service exemption does not apply to maintenance training or the performance of maintenance and service or the transfer of supporting technical data for the following defense articles: 


(i) All Missile Technology Control Regime Annex Items; 


(ii) Firearms listed in Category I; and ammunition listed in Category III for the firearms in Category I; 


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) Naval nuclear propulsion equipment listed in USML Category VI and USML Category XX;


(v) Gas turbine engine hot sections covered by Category XIX(f);


(vi) Category VIII(f); 


(vii) Category XII(c); 


(viii) Chemical agents listed in Category XIV (a), biological agents in Category XIV (b), and equipment listed in Category XIV (c) for dissemination of the chemical agents and biological agents listed in Categories XIV (a) and (b); 


(ix) [Reserved]


(x) Category XV; 


(xi) [Reserved] 


(xii) Submersible and semi-submersible vessels and related articles covered in USML Category XX; or


(xiii) Miscellaneous articles covered by Category XXI. 


(6) *Eligibility criteria for foreign persons.* Foreign persons eligible to receive technical data or maintenance training under this exemption are limited to nationals of the NATO countries, Australia, Japan, or Sweden.



---

[N] [58 FR 39305, July 22, 1993, as amended at 65 FR 45283, July 21, 2000; 66 FR 35899, July 10, 2001; 71 FR 20543, Apr. 21, 2006; 78 FR 40933, July 8, 2013; 79 FR 47, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 87429, Dec. 5, 2016; 87 FR 16424, Mar. 23, 2022]




