# ยง 412.37   Additional measures.

(a) Each CAFO subject to this subpart must implement the following requirements: 


(1) *Visual inspections.* There must be routine visual inspections of the CAFO production area. At a minimum, the following must be visually inspected: 


(i) Weekly inspections of all storm water diversion devices, runoff diversion structures, and devices channelling contaminated storm water to the wastewater and manure storage and containment structure; 


(ii) Daily inspection of water lines, including drinking water or cooling water lines; 


(iii) Weekly inspections of the manure, litter, and process wastewater impoundments; the inspection will note the level in liquid impoundments as indicated by the depth marker in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) *Depth marker.* All open surface liquid impoundments must have a depth marker which clearly indicates the minimum capacity necessary to contain the runoff and direct precipitation of the 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event. In the case of new sources subject to effluent limitations established pursuant to ยง 412.46(a)(1) of this part, all open surface manure storage structures associated with such sources must include a depth marker which clearly indicates the minimum capacity necessary to contain the maximum runoff and direct precipitation associated with the design storm used in sizing the impoundment for no discharge.


(3) *Corrective actions.* Any deficiencies found as a result of these inspections must be corrected as soon as possible. 


(4) *Mortality handling.* Mortalities must not be disposed of in any liquid manure or process wastewater system, and must be handled in such a way as to prevent the discharge of pollutants to surface water, unless alternative technologies pursuant to ยง 412.31(a)(2) and approved by the Director are designed to handle mortalities. 


(b) *Record keeping requirements for the production area.* Each CAFO must maintain on-site for a period of five years from the date they are created a complete copy of the information required by 40 CFR 122.21(i)(1) and 40 CFR 122.42(e)(1)(ix) and the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. The CAFO must make these records available to the Director and, in an authorized State, the Regional Administrator, or his or her designee, for review upon request. 


(1) Records documenting the inspections required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section; 


(2) Weekly records of the depth of the manure and process wastewater in the liquid impoundment as indicated by the depth marker under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; 


(3) Records documenting any actions taken to correct deficiencies required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Deficiencies not corrected within 30 days must be accompanied by an explanation of the factors preventing immediate correction; 


(4) Records of mortalities management and practices used by the CAFO to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. 


(5) Records documenting the current design of any manure or litter storage structures, including volume for solids accumulation, design treatment volume, total design volume, and approximate number of days of storage capacity; 


(6) Records of the date, time, and estimated volume of any overflow. 


(c) *Recordkeeping requirements for the land application areas.* Each CAFO must maintain on-site a copy of its site-specific nutrient management plan. Each CAFO must maintain on-site for a period of five years from the date they are created a complete copy of the information required by ยง 412.4 and 40 CFR 122.42(e)(1)(ix) and the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(10) of this section. The CAFO must make these records available to the Director and, in an authorized State, the Regional Administrator, or his or her designee, for review upon request. 


(1) Expected crop yields; 


(2) The date(s) manure, litter, or process waste water is applied to each field; 


(3) Weather conditions at time of application and for 24 hours prior to and following application; 


(4) Test methods used to sample and analyze manure, litter, process waste water, and soil; 


(5) Results from manure, litter, process waste water, and soil sampling; 


(6) Explanation of the basis for determining manure application rates, as provided in the technical standards established by the Director. 


(7) Calculations showing the total nitrogen and phosphorus to be applied to each field, including sources other than manure, litter, or process wastewater; 


(8) Total amount of nitrogen and phosphorus actually applied to each field, including documentation of calculations for the total amount applied; 


(9) The method used to apply the manure, litter, or process wastewater; 


(10) Date(s) of manure application equipment inspection. 



---

[N] [68 FR 7269, Feb. 12, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 70485, Nov. 20, 2008]




