# § 400.82   Failure or refusal to accept employability services or employment.

(a) *Termination of assistance.* When, without good cause, an employable non-exempt recipient of refugee cash assistance under the public/private RCA program or under a publicly-administered RCA program has failed or refused to meet the requirements of § 400.75(a) or has voluntarily quit a job, the State, or the agency(s) responsible for the provision of RCA, must terminate assistance in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Notice of intended termination*—(1) In cases of proposed action to reduce, suspend, or terminate assistance, the State or the agency(s) responsible for the provision of RCA, must give timely and adequate notice, in accordance with adverse action procedures required at § 400.54.


(2) The State, or the agency(s) responsible for the provision of RCA, must provide written procedures in English and in appropriate languages, in accordance with requirements in § 400.55, for the determination of good cause, the sanctioning of refugees who do not comply with the requirements of the program, and for the filing of appeals by refugees. 


(3) In addition to the requirements in § 400.54, the written notice must include—


(i) An explanation of the reason for the action and the proposed adverse consequences; and


(ii) Notice of the recipient's right to mediation and a hearing under § 400.83.


(4) A written notice in English and a written translated notice, or a verbal translation of the notice, in accordance with the requirements in § 400.55, must be sent or provided to a refugee at least 10 days before the date upon which the action is to become effective.


(c) *Sanctions.* (1) If the sanctioned individual is the only member of the filing unit, the assitance shall be terminated. If the filing unit includes other members, the State shall not take into account the sanctioned individual's needs in determining the filing unit's need for assistance.


(2) The sanction applied in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section shall remain in effect for 3 payment months for the first such failure and 6 payment months for any subsequent such failure.



---

[N] [54 FR 5477, Feb. 3, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 33602, June 28, 1995; 65 FR 15448, Mar. 22, 2000]




