# ยง 275.204-5   Delivery of Form CRS.

(a) *General requirements.* If you are registered under the Act as an investment adviser, you must deliver Form CRS, required by Part 3 of Form ADV [17 CFR 279.1], to each retail investor.


(b) *Delivery requirements.* You (or a supervised person acting on your behalf) must:


(1) Deliver to each retail investor your current Form CRS before or at the time you enter into an investment advisory contract with that retail investor.


(2) Deliver to each retail investor who is an existing client your current Form CRS before or at the time you:


(i) Open a new account that is different from the retail investor's existing account(s);


(ii) Recommend that the retail investor roll over assets from a retirement account into a new or existing account or investment; or


(iii) Recommend or provide a new investment advisory service or investment that does not necessarily involve the opening of a new account and would not be held in an existing account.


(3) Post the current Form CRS prominently on your website, if you have one, in a location and format that is easily accessible for retail investors.


(4) Communicate any changes made to Form CRS to each retail investor who is an existing client within 60 days after the amendments are required to be made and without charge. The communication can be made by delivering the amended Form CRS or by communicating the information through another disclosure that is delivered to the retail investor.


(5) Deliver a current Form CRS to each retail investor within 30 days upon request.


(c) *Other disclosure obligations.* Delivering Form CRS in compliance with this section does not relieve you of any other disclosure obligations you have to your retail investors under any Federal or State laws or regulations.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Current Form CRS* means the most recent version of the Form CRS.


(2) *Retail investor* means a natural person, or the legal representative of such natural person, who seeks to receive or receives services primarily for personal, family or household purposes.


(3) *Supervised person* means any of your officers, partners or directors (or other persons occupying a similar status or performing similar functions) or employees, or any other person who provides investment advice on your behalf.


(e) *Transition rule.* (1) Within 30 days after the date by which you are first required by ยง 275.204-1(b) to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission, you must deliver to each of your existing clients who is a retail investor your current Form CRS as required by Part 3 of Form ADV.


(2) As of the date by which you are first required to electronically file your Form CRS with the Commission, you must begin using your Form CRS as required by Part 3 of Form ADV to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 33631, July 12, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 22447, Apr. 15, 2022]








