# § 173.302b   Additional requirements for shipment of non-liquefied (permanent) compressed gases in UN pressure receptacles.

(a) *General.* A cylinder filled with a non-liquefied gas must be offered for transportation in UN pressure receptacles subject to the requirements in this section and § 173.302. In addition, the requirements in §§ 173.301 and 173.301b must be met.


(b) *UN pressure receptacles filling limits.* A UN pressure receptacle is authorized for the transportation of non-liquefied compressed gases as specified in this section. Except where filling limits are specifically prescribed in this section, the working pressure of a UN pressure receptacle may not exceed 
2/3 of the test pressure of the receptacle. Alternatively, the filling limits specified for non-liquefied gases in Table 1 of P200 of the UN Recommendations (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter) are authorized. In no case may the internal pressure at 65 °C (149 °F) exceed the test pressure.


(c) *Fluorine, compressed, UN 1045 and Oxygen difluoride, compressed, UN 2190.* Fluorine, compressed and Oxygen difluoride, compressed must be packaged in a UN pressure receptacle with a minimum test pressure of 200 bar and a maximum working pressure not to exceed 30 bar. A UN pressure receptacle made of aluminum alloy is not authorized. The maximum quantity of gas authorized in each UN pressure receptacle is 5 kg.


(d) *Diborane and diborane mixtures, UN 1911.* Diborane and diborane mixtures must be packaged in a UN pressure receptacle with a minimum test pressure of 250 bar and a maximum filling ratio dependent on the test pressure not to exceed 0.07. Filling should be further limited so that if complete decomposition of diborane occurs, the pressure of diborane or diborane mixtures will not exceed the working pressure of the cylinder. The use of UN tubes and MEGCs is not authorized.


(e) *Carbon monoxide, compressed UN 1016.* Carbon monoxide, compressed is authorized in UN pressure receptacles. The settled pressure in a steel pressure receptacle containing carbon monoxide may not exceed 
1/3 of the pressure receptacle's test pressure at 65 °C (149 °F) except, if the gas is dry and sulfur-free, the settled pressure may not exceed 
l/2 of the marked test pressure.


(f) *Methane, compressed, or natural gas, compressed, UN1971.* Methane, compressed, or natural gas, compressed, is authorized in a UN seamless steel pressure receptacle under the following conditions:


(1) For methane, and for natural gas with a methane content of 98.0 percent or greater—


(i) The maximum tensile strength of the UN seamless steel pressure receptacle may not exceed 1100 MPa (159,542 psi); and


(ii) The contents are commercially free of corroding components.


(2) For natural gas with a methane content of less than 98.0 percent—


(i) The maximum tensile strength of the UN seamless steel pressure receptacle may not exceed 950 MPa (137,750 psi);


(ii) Each discharge end of a UN refillable seamless steel tube must be equipped with an internal drain tube; and


(iii) The moisture content and concentration of the corroding components must conform to the requirements in § 173.301b(a)(2).


(g) *Mixtures of Fluorine with Nitrogen.* Mixtures of fluorine and nitrogen with a fluorine concentration below 35% by volume may be filled in pressure receptacles up to a maximum allowable working pressure for which the partial pressure of fluorine does not exceed 31 bar (abs.).


Mixtures of fluorine and inert gases with a fluorine concentration below 35% by volume may be filled in pressure receptacles up to a maximum allowable working pressure for which the partial pressure of fluorine does not exceed 31 bar (abs.), additionally taking the coefficient of nitrogen equivalency in accordance with ISO 10156:2017 into account when calculating the partial pressure.


However, the working pressure for mixtures of fluorine and inert gases shall not exceed 200 bar. The minimum test pressure of pressure receptacles for mixtures of fluorine and inert gases equals 1.5 times the working pressure or 200 bar, with the greater value to be applied.



---

[N] [71 FR 33883, June 12, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 15666, Mar. 4, 2024; 89 FR 25487, Apr. 10, 2024]




