# § 668.44   Availability of employees for information dissemination purposes.

(a) *Availability.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section each institution shall designate an employee or group of employees who shall be available on a full-time basis to assist enrolled or prospective students in obtaining the information specified in §§ 668.42, 668.43, 668.45 and 668.46.


(2) If the institution designates one person, that person shall be available, upon reasonable notice, to any enrolled or prospective student throughout the normal administrative working hours of that institution.


(3) If more than one person is designated, their combined work schedules must be arranged so that at least one of them is available, upon reasonable notice, throughout the normal administrative working hours of that institution.


(b) *Waiver.* (1) the Secretary may waive the requirement that the employee or group of employees designated under paragraph (a) of this section be available on a full-time basis if the institution's total enrollment, or the portion of the enrollment participating in the title IV, HEA programs, is too small to necessitate an employee or group of employees being available on a full-time basis.


(2) In determining whether an institution's total enrollment or the number of title IV, HEA program recipients is too small, the Secretary considers whether there will be an insufficient demand for information dissemination services among its enrolled or prospective students to necessitate the full-time availability of an employee or group of employees.


(3) To receive a waiver, the institution shall apply to the Secretary at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary.


(c) The granting of a waiver under paragraph (b) of this section does not exempt an institution from designating a specific employee or group of employees to carry out on a part-time basis the information dissemination requirements.



---

[N] [51 FR 43323, Dec. 1, 1986. Redesignated at 64 FR 59067, Nov. 1, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 12276, Mar. 16, 2004]




