# ยง 285.906   What must my decommissioning application include?

You must provide one paper copy and one electronic copy of the application. Include the following information in the application, as applicable.


(a) Identification of the applicant including:


(1) Lease operator, ROW grant holder, or RUE grant holder;


(2) Address;


(3) Contact person and telephone number; and


(4) Shore base.


(b) Identification and description of the facilities, cables, or pipelines you plan to remove or propose to leave in place, as provided in ยง 285.909.


(c) A proposed decommissioning schedule for your lease, ROW grant, or RUE grant, including the expiration or relinquishment date and proposed month and year of removal.


(d) A description of the removal methods and procedures, including the types of equipment, vessels, and moorings (*i.e.,* anchors, chains, lines, *etc.*) you will use.


(e) A description of your site clearance activities.


(f) Your plans for transportation and disposal (including as an artificial reef) or salvage of the removed facilities, cables, or pipelines and any required approvals.


(g) A description of those resources, conditions, and activities that could be affected by or could affect your proposed decommissioning activities. The description must be as detailed as necessary to assist BSEE in complying with the NEPA and other relevant Federal laws.


(h) The results of any recent biological surveys conducted in the vicinity of the structure and recent observations of turtles or marine mammals at the structure site.


(i) Mitigation measures you will use to protect archaeological and sensitive biological features during removal activities.


(j) A description of measures you will take to prevent unauthorized discharge of pollutants, including marine trash and debris, into the offshore waters.


(k) A statement of whether or not you will use divers to survey the area after removal to determine any effects on marine life.






