# § 52.1   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part—


*Combined license* means a combined construction permit and operating license with conditions for a nuclear power facility issued under subpart C of this part.


*Decommission* means to remove a facility or site safely from service and reduce residual radioactivity to a level that permits—


(i) Release of the property for unrestricted use and termination of the license; or


(ii) Release of the property under restricted conditions and termination of the license.


*Design characteristics* are the actual features of a reactor or reactors. Design characteristics are specified in a standard design approval, a standard design certification, a combined license application, or a manufacturing license.


*Design parameters* are the postulated features of a reactor or reactors that could be built at a proposed site. Design parameters are specified in an early site permit.


*Early site permit* means a Commission approval, issued under subpart A of this part, for a site for one or more nuclear power facilities. An early site permit is a partial construction permit.


*License* means a license, including an early site permit, combined license or manufacturing license under this part or a renewed license issued by the Commission under this part or part 54 of this chapter.


*Licensee* means a person who is authorized to conduct activities under a license issued by the Commission.


*Limited work authorization* means the authorization provided by the Director of the Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation under § 50.10 of this chapter.


*Major feature of the emergency plans* means an aspect of those plans necessary to:


(i) Address in whole or part either one or more of the 16 standards in 10 CFR 50.47(b) or the requirements of 10 CFR 50.160(b), as applicable; or


(ii) Describe the emergency planning zones as required in 10 CFR 50.33(g).


*Manufacturing license* means a license, issued under subpart F of this part, authorizing the manufacture of nuclear power reactors but not their construction, installation, or operation at the sites on which the reactors are to be operated.


*Modular design* means a nuclear power station that consists of two or more essentially identical nuclear reactors (modules) and each module is a separate nuclear reactor capable of being operated independent of the state of completion or operating condition of any other module co-located on the same site, even though the nuclear power station may have some shared or common systems.


*Prototype plant* means a nuclear power plant that is used to test new safety features, such as the testing required under 10 CFR 50.43(e). The prototype plant is similar to a first-of-a-kind or standard plant design in all features and size, but may include additional safety features to protect the public and the plant staff from the possible consequences of accidents during the testing period.


*Site characteristics* are the actual physical, environmental and demographic features of a site. Site characteristics are specified in an early site permit or in a final safety analysis report for a combined license.


*Site parameters* are the postulated physical, environmental and demographic features of an assumed site. Site parameters are specified in a standard design approval, standard design certification, or manufacturing license.


*Standard design* means a design which is sufficiently detailed and complete to support certification or approval in accordance with subpart B or E of this part, and which is usable for a multiple number of units or at a multiple number of sites without reopening or repeating the review.


*Standard design approval* or *design approval* means an NRC staff approval, issued under subpart E of this part, of a final standard design for a nuclear power reactor of the type described in 10 CFR 50.22. The approval may be for either the final design for the entire reactor facility or the final design of major portions thereof.


*Standard design certification* or *design certification* means a Commission approval, issued under subpart B of this part, of a final standard design for a nuclear power facility. This design may be referred to as a certified standard design.


(b) All other terms in this part have the meaning set out in 10 CFR 50.2, or Section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act, as applicable.



---

[N] [72 FR 49517, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 57446, Oct. 9, 2007; 79 FR 66604, Nov. 10, 2014; 84 FR 65645, Nov. 29, 2019; 84 FR 68781, Dec. 17, 2019; 88 FR 80077, Nov. 16, 2023]




