# § 172.120   Calcium disodium EDTA.

The food additive calcium disodium EDTA (calcium disodium ethylene-diaminetetraacetate) may be safely used in designated foods for the purposes and in accordance with the conditions prescribed, as follows:


(a) The additive contains a minimum of 99 percent by weight of either the dihydrate C_10_H_12_O_8_N_2_CaNa_2_·2H_2_O or the trihydrate C_10_H_12_O_8_N_2_CaNa_2_·3H_2_O, or any mixture of the two.


(b) It is used or intended for use as follows:


(1) Alone, in the following foods at not to exceed the levels prescribed, calculated as the anhydrous compound:


(2) With disodium EDTA (disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetate) in the following foods at not to exceed, in combination, the levels prescribed, calculated as anhydrous C_10_H_12_O_8_N_2_CaNa_2_:


(c) To assure safe use of the additive:


(1) The label and labeling of the additive container shall bear, in addition to the other information required by the Act, the name of the additive.


(2) The label or labeling of the additive container shall bear adequate use directions to provide a final food product that complies with the limitations provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) In the standardized foods listed in paragraph (b) of this section, the additives are used only in compliance with the applicable standards of identity for such foods.



---

[N] [42 FR 14491, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 10815, Mar. 15, 1983; 58 FR 52222, Oct. 7, 1993; 60 FR 33710, June 29, 1995; 65 FR 48379, Aug. 8, 2000]




