# ยง 1106.4   The Safety Integration Plan process.

(a) Each applicant in a transaction subject to this part shall file a proposed SIP in accordance with the informational requirements prescribed at 49 CFR part 244, or other FRA guidelines or requirements regarding the contents of a SIP, with OEA and FRA no later than 60 days from the date the application is filed with the Board. 


(b) The proposed SIP shall be made part of the environmental record in the Board proceeding and dealt with in the ongoing environmental review process under 49 CFR part 1105. The procedures governing the process shall be as follows: 


(1) In accordance with 49 CFR 244.17, FRA will provide its findings and conclusions on the adequacy of the proposed SIP (*i.e.,* assess whether the proposed SIP establishes a process that provides a reasonable assurance of safety in executing the proposed transaction) to OEA at a date sufficiently in advance of the Board's issuance of its draft environmental documentation in the case to permit incorporation in the draft environmental document. 


(2) The draft environmental documentation shall incorporate the proposed SIP, any revisions or modifications to it based on further consultations with FRA, and FRA's written comments regarding the SIP. The public may review and comment on the draft environmental documentation within the time limits prescribed by OEA. 


(3) OEA will independently review each proposed SIP. In its final environmental documentation, OEA will address written comments on the proposed SIP received during the time established for submitting comments on the draft environmental documentation. The Board then will consider the full environmental record, including the information concerning the SIP, in arriving at its decision in the case. 


(4) If the Board approves the transaction and adopts the SIP, it will require compliance with the SIP as a condition to its approval. Each applicant involved in the transaction then shall coordinate with FRA in implementing the approved SIP, including any amendments thereto. FRA has provided in its rules at 49 CFR 244.17(g) for submitting information to the Board during implementation of an approved transaction that will assist the Board in exercising its continuing jurisdiction over the transaction. FRA also has agreed to advise the Board when, in its view, the integration of the applicants' operations has been safely completed. 


(c) If a SIP is required in transactions that would not be subject to environmental review under the Board's environmental rules at 49 CFR part 1105, the Board will develop appropriate case-specific SIP procedures based on the facts and circumstances presented. 



---

[N] [67 FR 11607, Mar. 15, 2002, as amended at 83 FR 15078, Apr. 9, 2018]




