# ยง 4901.12   Description of information requested.

(a) *In general.* Each disclosure request should reasonably describe the record or records sought in sufficient detail to permit identification and location with a reasonable amount of effort. So far as practicable, the request should specify the subject matter of the record, the place where and date or approximate date when made, the person or office that made it, and any other pertinent identifying details. 


(b) *Deficient descriptions.* (1) If the description is insufficient to enable a professional employee familiar with the subject area of the disclosure request to locate the record with a reasonable amount of effort, the Disclosure Officer will notify the requester and, to the extent possible, indicate the additional information required. PBGC will make every reasonable effort to assist a requester in the identification and location of the record or records sought. PBGC will not withhold records merely because of difficulty in finding them.


(2) A requester who is attempting to modify or reformulate a disclosure request may discuss the request with a FOIA Public Liaison, who is available to assist the requester in reasonably describing the records sought. If the requester fails to reasonably describe the records sought, PBGC's response to the request may be delayed or denied.


(3) Any amended disclosure request must meet the requirements for a request under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Requests for categories of records.* Disclosure requests calling for all records falling within a reasonably specific category will be regarded as reasonably described within the meaning of this section and section 552(a)(3) of FOIA if PBGC is reasonably able to determine which records come within the request and to search for and collect them without unduly interfering with PBGC operations. If PBGC operations would be unduly disrupted, the Disclosure Officer will promptly notify the requester and provide an opportunity to confer in an attempt to reduce the request to manageable proportions. 



---

[N] [61 FR 34123, July 1, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 43995, July 25, 2022]




