# § 905.110   Incorporation by reference.

(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part, with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register, under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, HUD must publish notice of change in the _Federal Register_ and the material must be available to the public. Incorporated material is available from the sources listed below and is available for inspection at HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research, Affordable Housing Research and Technology Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development, telephone number 202-408-4370 (this is not a toll-free number). This material is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 (this is not a toll-free number) or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., 1791 Tulle Circle NE., Atlanta, GA 30329 (*http://www.ashrae.org/standards-research-technology/standards-guidelines*).


(1) ASHRAE 90.1-2010, “Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings,” copyright 2010, IBR approved for §§ 905.200(b) and 905.312(b) of this part.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) International Code Council, 500 New Jersey Avenue NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20001.


(1) International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), January 2009, IBR approved for §§ 905.200(b) and 905.312(b).


(2) [Reserved]




