# § 16.90   Exemption of Civil Rights Division Systems.

(a) The following system of records is exempted from subsections (c)(3) and (4); (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4); (e)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (8); and (g) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k): Central Civil Rights Division Index File and Associated Records (JUSTICE/CRT-001). These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in a record is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (j)(2), (k)(1) and (k)(2). 


(b) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons: 


(1) *Subsection (c)(3).* To provide the subject of a criminal, civil, or administrative matter or case under investigation with an accounting of disclosures of records concerning him or her could inform that individual of the existence, nature, or scope of an actual or potential criminal or civil violation to gain valuable information concerning the nature and scope of the investigation, to determine whether he or she is the subject of the investigation, and seriously impede law enforcement efforts by permitting the record subject and other persons to whom he or she might disclose the records to avoid criminal penalties, civil remedies, or administrative measures. 


(2) *Subsection (c)(4).* This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that an exemption is being claimed for subsection (d). 


(3) *Subsection (d)(1).* Disclosure of investigatory information could interfere with the investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources, and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. Disclosure of classified national security information would cause damage to the national security of the United States. In addition, these records may be subject to protective orders entered by federal courts to protect their confidentiality. Further, many of the records contained in this system are copies of documents which are the property of state agencies and were obtained under express or implied promises to strictly protect their confidentiality.


(4) *Subsection (d)(2).* Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.


(5) *Subsection (d)(3) and (4).* These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and (2).


(6) *Subsection (e)(1).* It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.


(7) *Subsection (e)(2).* To collect information from the subject individual could serve notice that he or she is the subject of a criminal investigation and thereby present a serious impediment to such investigation.


(8) *Subsection (e)(3).* To inform individuals as required by this subsection could reveal the existence of a criminal or civil investigation and compromise investigative efforts.


(9) *Subsection (e)(5).* It is often impossible to determine in advance if investigatory records contained in this system are accurate, relevant, timely and complete, but, in the interests of effective law enforcement, it is necessary to retain this information to aid in establishing patterns of activity and provide investigative leads.


(10) *Subsection (e)(8).* To serve notice could give persons sufficient warning to evade investigative efforts.


(11) *Subsection (g).* This subsection is inapplicable to the extent that the system is exempt from other specific subsections of the Privacy Act.


(c) The following system of records is exempted from subsections (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4) of the Privacy Act pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k): “Files on Employment Civil Rights Matters Referred by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (JUSTICE/CRT-007).” These exemptions apply only to the extent that information in a record is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2).


(d) Exemptions from the particular subsections are justified for the following reasons:


(1) *Subsection (d)(1).* Disclosure of investigatory information could interfere with the investigation, reveal the identity of confidential sources, and result in an unwarranted invasion of the privacy of others. In addition, these records may be subject to protective orders entered by federal courts to protect their confidentiality. Further, many of the records contained in this system are copies of documents which are the property of state agencies and were obtained under express or implied promises to strictly protect their confidentiality.


(2) *Subsection (d)(2).* Amendment of the records could interfere with ongoing criminal or civil law enforcement proceedings and impose an impossible administrative burden by requiring investigations to be continuously reinvestigated.


(3) *Subsection (d)(1), (2), (3) and (4).* This system contains investigatory material compiled by the Equal Opportunity Commission pursuant to its authority under 42 U.S.C. 2000e-8. Titles 42 U.S.C. 2000e-5(b), 42 U.S.C. 2000e-8(e), and 44 U.S.C. 3508 make it unlawful to make public in any manner whatsoever any information obtained by the Commission pursuant to the authority.


(4) *Subsection (d)(3) and (4).* These subsections are inapplicable to the extent exemption is claimed from (d)(1) and (2).



---

[N] [Order No. 019-2003, 68 FR 61622, Oct. 29, 2003] 




