# § 232.103   General requirements for all train brake systems.

(a) The primary brake system of a train shall be capable of stopping the train with a service application from its maximum operating speed within the signal spacing existing on the track over which the train is operating. 


(b) If the integrity of the train line of a train brake system is broken, the train shall be stopped. If a train line uses other than solely pneumatic technology, the integrity of the train line shall be monitored by the brake control system. 


(c) A train brake system shall respond as intended to signals from the train line. 


(d) One hundred percent of the brakes on a train shall be effective and operative brakes prior to use or departure from any location where a Class I brake test is required to be performed on the train pursuant to § 232.205. 


(e) A train shall not move if less than 85 percent of the cars in that train have operative and effective brakes.


(f) Each car in a train shall have its air brakes in effective operating condition unless the car is being moved for repairs in accordance with §§ 232.15 and 232.609. The air brakes on a car are not in effective operating condition if its brakes are cut-out or otherwise inoperative or if the piston travel exceeds:


(1) 10
1/2 inches for cars equipped with nominal 12-inch stroke brake cylinders; or


(2) The piston travel limits indicated on the stencil, sticker, or badge plate for the brake cylinder with which the car is equipped. 


(g) Except for cars equipped with nominal 12-inch stroke (8
1/2 and 10-inch diameters) brake cylinders, all cars shall have a legible decal, stencil, or sticker affixed to the car or shall be equipped with a badge plate displaying the permissible brake cylinder piston travel range for the car at Class I brake tests and the length at which the piston travel renders the brake ineffective, if different from Class I brake test limits. The decal, stencil, sticker, or badge plate shall be located so that it may be easily read and understood by a person positioned safely beside the car.


(h) All equipment ordered on or after August 1, 2002, or placed in service for the first time on or after April 1, 2004, shall have train brake systems designed so that an inspector can observe from a safe position either the piston travel, an accurate indicator which shows piston travel, or any other means by which the brake system is actuated. The design shall not require the inspector to place himself or herself on, under, or between components of the equipment to observe brake actuation or release.


(i) All trains shall be equipped with an emergency application feature that produces an irretrievable stop, using a brake rate consistent with prevailing adhesion, train safety, and brake system thermal capacity. An emergency application shall be available at all times, and shall be initiated by an unintentional parting of the train line or loss of train brake communication.


(j) A railroad shall set the maximum main reservoir working pressure. 


(k) The maximum brake pipe pressure shall not be greater than 15 psi less than the air compressor governor starting or loading pressure.


(l) Except as otherwise provided in this part, all equipment used in freight or other non-passenger trains must, at a minimum, meet the Association of American Railroads (AAR) Standard S-469, “Freight Brakes- Performance Specification,” Revised 2006 (contained in AAR Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices, Brakes and Brake Equipment), also referred to as AAR Standard S-469-01. The Director of the _Federal Register_ approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy from the Association of American Railroads, 425 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20024, telephone: (202) 639-2345, email: *publications@aar.com,* website: *https://aarpublications.com*. You may inspect a copy of the document at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone: (855) 368-4200) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*.


(m) An en route train shall be stopped at the next available location, inspected for leaks in the brake system, and provided with corrective action, if the train experiences:


(1) A brake pipe gradient of greater than 15 psi; or


(2) A brake pipe air flow of greater than that permitted by this part, when the air flow has been qualified by the Air Flow Method as provided for in subpart C of this part and the indication does not return to within the limits in a reasonable time.


(n) *Securement of unattended equipment.* Unattended equipment shall be secured in accordance with the following requirements:


(1) A sufficient number of hand brakes, to be not fewer than one, shall be applied to hold the equipment unless an acceptable alternative method of securement is provided pursuant to paragraph (n)(11)(i) of this section. Railroads shall develop and implement a process or procedure to verify that the applied hand brakes will sufficiently hold the equipment with the air brakes released.


(2) Except for equipment connected to a source of compressed air (*e.g.,* locomotive or ground air source), or as provided under paragraph (n)(11)(ii) of this section, prior to leaving equipment unattended, the brake pipe shall be reduced to zero at a rate that is no less than a service rate reduction, and the brake pipe vented to atmosphere by leaving the angle cock in the open position on the first unit of the equipment left unattended. A train's air brake shall not be depended upon to hold equipment standing unattended (including a locomotive, a car, or a train whether or not locomotive is attached).


(3) Except for distributed power units, the following requirements apply to unattended locomotives:


(i) All hand brakes shall be fully applied on all locomotives in the lead consist of an unattended train.


(ii) All hand brakes shall be fully applied on all locomotives in an unattended locomotive consist outside of a yard.


(iii) At a minimum, the hand brake shall be fully applied on the lead locomotive in an unattended locomotive consist within a yard.


(iv) A railroad shall develop, adopt, and comply with procedures for securing any unattended locomotive required to have a hand brake applied pursuant to paragraph (n)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section when the locomotive is not equipped with an operative hand brake.


(4) A railroad shall adopt and comply with a process or procedures to verify that the applied hand brakes will sufficiently hold an unattended locomotive consist. A railroad shall also adopt and comply with instructions to address throttle position, status of the reverse lever, position of the generator field switch, status of the independent brakes, position of the isolation switch, and position of the automatic brake valve on all unattended locomotives. The procedures and instruction required in this paragraph shall take into account winter weather conditions as they relate to throttle position and reverser handle.


(5) Any hand brakes applied to hold unattended equipment shall not be released until it is known that the air brake system is properly charged.


(6)(i) The requirements in paragraph (n)(7) through (8) of this section apply to any freight train or standing freight car or cars that contain:


(A) Any loaded tank car containing a material poisonous by inhalation as defined in § 171.8 of this title, including anhydrous ammonia (UN 1005) and ammonia solutions (UN 3318); or


(B) Twenty (20) or more loaded tank cars or loaded intermodal portable tanks of any one or any combination of a hazardous material listed in paragraph (n)(6)(i)(A) of this section, or any Division 2.1 (flammable gas), Class 3 (flammable or combustible liquid), Division 1.1 or 1.2 (explosive), or a hazardous substance listed at § 173.31(f)(2) of this title.


(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph, a tank car containing a residue of a hazardous material as defined in § 171.8 of this title is not considered a loaded car.


(7)(i) No equipment described in paragraph (n)(6) of this section shall be left unattended on a main track or siding (except when that main track or siding runs through, or is directly adjacent to a yard) until the railroad has adopted and is complying with a plan identifying specific locations or circumstances when the equipment may be left unattended. The plan shall contain sufficient safety justification for determining when equipment may be left unattended. The railroad must notify FRA when the railroad develops and has in place a plan, or modifies an existing plan, under this provision prior to operating pursuant to the plan. The plan shall be made available to FRA upon request. FRA reserves the right to require modifications to any plan should it determine the plan is not sufficient.


(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (n)(8)(iii) of this section, any freight train described in paragraph (n)(6) of this section that is left unattended on a main track or siding that runs through, or is directly adjacent to, a yard shall comply with the requirements contained in paragraphs (n)(8)(i) and (n)(8)(ii) of this section.


(8)(i) Where a freight train or standing freight car or cars as described in paragraph (n)(6) of this section is left unattended on a main track or siding outside of a yard, and not directly adjacent to a yard, an employee responsible for securing the equipment shall verify with another person qualified to make the determination that the equipment is secured in accordance with the railroad's processes and procedures.


(ii) The controlling locomotive cab of a freight train described in paragraph (n)(6) of this section shall be locked on locomotives capable of being locked. If the controlling cab is not capable of being locked, the reverser on the controlling locomotive shall be removed from the control stand and placed in a secured location.


(iii) A locomotive that is left unattended on a main track or siding that runs through, or is directly adjacent to, a yard is excepted from the requirements in (n)(8)(ii) of this section where the locomotive is not equipped with an operative lock and the locomotive has a reverser that cannot be removed from its control stand or has a reverser that is necessary for cold weather operations.


(9) Each railroad shall implement operating rules and practices requiring the job briefing of securement for any activity that will impact or require the securement of any unattended equipment in the course of the work being performed.


(10) Each railroad shall adopt and comply with procedures to ensure that, as soon as safely practicable, a qualified employee verifies the proper securement of any unattended equipment when the railroad has knowledge that a non-railroad emergency responder has been on, under, or between the equipment.


(11) A railroad may adopt and then must comply with alternative securement procedures to do the following:


(i) In lieu of applying hand brakes as required under paragraph (n) of this section, properly maintain and use mechanical securement devices, within their design criteria and as intended within a classification yard or on a repair track.


(ii) In lieu of compliance with the associated requirement in paragraph (n)(2) of this section—and in lieu of applying hand brakes as required under paragraph (n) of this section— isolate the brake pipe of standing equipment from atmosphere if it:


(A) Initiates an emergency brake application on the equipment;


(B) Closes the angle cock; and


(C) Operates the locomotive or otherwise proceeds directly to the opposite end of the equipment for the sole purpose to either open the angle cock to vent to atmosphere or provide an air source.


(iii) Upon completion of the procedure described in paragraph (n)(11)(ii) of this section, the securement requirements of paragraph (n) of this section shall apply.


(o) Air pressure regulating devices shall be adjusted for the following pressures: 



---

[N] [66 FR 4193, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 17581, Apr. 10, 2002; 73 FR 61553, Oct. 16, 2008; 74 FR 25174, May 27, 2009; 80 FR 47834, Aug. 6, 2015; 85 FR 80571, Dec. 11, 2020]





