# ยง 2507.6   Requirements for FOIA requests.

(a) *General information.* AmeriCorps has a centralized system for responding to FOIA requests. AmeriCorps headquarters is the central processing point for all requests for Agency records, regardless of where they are stored. State service commissions are not part of AmeriCorps and are not Federal agencies, and thus are not subject to the FOIA.


(b) *Directions for making requests.* All FOIA requests must be submitted in writing to the FOIA Officer at AmeriCorps headquarters in one of the following ways:


(1) *By email: foia@cns.gov.* Including a phone number with a request will help with processing.


(2) *By online submission:* via the National FOIA Portal at *www.FOIA.gov.*

(3) *By mail:* AmeriCorps, Attn.: FOIA Officer, Office of General Counsel, 250 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20525.


(4) *By fax:* (202) 606-3467.


(c) *Description of records sought.* Requesters must provide enough detail about the Agency's records they seek that AmeriCorps personnel can find responsive records, if they exist, with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include information that helps identify the records, such as dates, titles or names, authors, recipients, subject matter of the records, or assigned reference numbers. Requesters may adjust their request or ask for advice on writing a request by sending a note to *foia@cns.gov.*

(1) If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, AmeriCorps' response to the request may be delayed or denied.


(2) When AmeriCorps determines that a request does not sufficiently describe the records sought, it will ask the requester for further information. If the requester does not respond to a request for additional information within thirty (30) working days, the request may be administratively closed at AmeriCorps' discretion. A requester may, after administrative closure of a request, submit a new request with additional information for further consideration.


(d) *Third-party requests.* When a request for records pertains to a third party (that is, a person other than the requester), the requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by the third party or a declaration, made in compliance with the requirements set forth in the FOIA, that the third party authorizes disclosure of the records to the requester, or proof that the third party is deceased (for example, a copy of a death certificate or a published obituary). If necessary, AmeriCorps may require additional information from a requester to verify that the third party consents to disclosure. Alternatively, requesters may demonstrate an overriding public interest in the disclosure of information pertaining to a third party (for example, by producing evidence that alleged Government impropriety occurred, necessitating a disclosure of information related to official misconduct).


(e) *Date range for requested records.* Requesters may ask for a specific date range for a search, but requests may not ask for records that are anticipated for the future, but do not yet exist. As it determines which records are responsive to a request, AmeriCorps ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date it begins its search, if a date range is not specified.


(f) *Contact information.* Requesters must provide a telephone number or email address in their request so that AmeriCorps can contact them for clarification, if necessary, or help them narrow down a request that would otherwise be unduly burdensome.






