# ยง 382.1   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Collective* means the collection and distribution organization that is designated by the Copyright Royalty Judges.


*Copyright Owners* means sound recording copyright owners, and rights owners under 17 U.S.C. 1401(l)(2), who are entitled to royalty payments made under this part pursuant to the statutory licenses under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) and 114.


*Digital Audio Transmission* has the same meaning as in 17 U.S.C. 114(j)(5).


*Eligible Transmission* means a Digital Audio Transmission made by a Licensee that is subject to licensing under 17 U.S.C. 114(d)(2) and the payment of royalties under 37 CFR part 382.


*Ephemeral Recording* has the same meaning as in 17 U.S.C. 112.


*GAAP* means generally accepted accounting principles in effect in the United States on the date payment is due.


*Licensee* means the provider of an Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service (SDARS) or Preexisting Subscription Service (PSS) that has obtained a license under 17 U.S.C. 114 to make eligible transmissions and a license under 17 U.S.C. 112(e) to make Ephemeral Recordings to facilitate those Eligible Transmissions.


*Payor* means the entity required to make royalty payments to the Collective or the entity required to distribute royalty fees collected, depending on context. The Payor is:


(1) A Licensee, in relation to the Collective; and


(2) The Collective in relation to a Copyright Owner or Performer.


*Performers* means the independent administrators identified in 17 U.S.C. 114(g)(2)(B) and (C) and the parties identified in 17 U.S.C. 114(g)(2)(D).


*Preexisting Subscription Service* (*PSS)* has the same meaning as in 17 U.S.C. 114(j)(11). A service's offering on the internet that is available to a subscriber outside the subscriber's residence is not a Preexisting Subscription Service for purposes of this part.


*Qualified Auditor* means a Certified Public Accountant independent within the meaning of the American Institute Certified Public Accountants Code of Professional Conduct.


*Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service* (*SDARS)* means the preexisting satellite digital audio radio services as defined in 17 U.S.C. 114(j)(10).


*Transmission* has the same meaning as in 17 U.S.C. 114(j)(15).


*Verifying Entity* means the party requesting an audit and giving notice of intent to audit. For audits of SDARS and PSS, the Verifying Entity is SoundExchange, Inc. For audits of SoundExchange, Inc. the Verifying Entity is any Copyright Owner or its authorized representative.



---

[N] [83 FR 65265, Dec. 19, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 32313, July 8, 2019]




