# § 19.10   How will Commerce entities use administrative offset (offset of non-tax Federal payments) to collect a Commerce debt?

(a) *Centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program.* (1) In most cases, the Bureau of the Fiscal Service uses the Treasury Offset Program to collect Commerce debts by the offset of Federal payments. *See* § 19.9(c) of this part. If not already transferred to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service under § 19.9 of this part, Commerce entities will refer Commerce debt over 120 days delinquent to the Treasury Offset Program for collection by centralized administrative offset. *See* 31 U.S.C. 3716(c)(6); 31 CFR part 285, subpart A; and 31 CFR 901.3(b). Commerce entities may refer to the Treasury Offset Program for offset any Commerce debt that has been delinquent for 120 days or less.


(2) At least sixty (60) days prior to referring a Commerce debt to the Treasury Offset Program, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, Commerce entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 19.4 of this part. Commerce entities will certify to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, in writing, that the Commerce debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, Commerce entities will certify their compliance with the requirements described in this part.


(b) *Non-centralized administrative offset for Commerce debts.* (1) When centralized administrative offset through the Treasury Offset Program is not available or appropriate, Commerce entities may collect past-due, legally enforceable Commerce debts through non-centralized administrative offset. *See* 31 CFR 901.3(c). In these cases, Commerce entities may offset a payment internally or make an offset request directly to a Federal payment agency. If the Federal payment agency is another Commerce entity, the Commerce entity making the request shall do so through the Deputy Chief Financial Officer as described in § 19.20(c) of this part.


(2) At least thirty (30) days prior to offsetting a payment internally or requesting a Federal payment agency to offset a payment, Commerce entities will send notice to the debtor in accordance with the requirements of § 19.4 of this part. When referring a Commerce debt for offset under this paragraph (b), Commerce entities making the request will certify, in writing, that the Commerce debt is valid, delinquent, legally enforceable, and that there are no legal bars to collection by offset. In addition, Commerce entities will certify their compliance with these regulations concerning administrative offset. *See* 31 CFR 901.3(c)(2)(ii).


(c) *Administrative review.* The notice described in § 19.4 of this part shall explain to the debtor how to request an administrative review of a Commerce entity's determination that the debtor owes a Commerce debt and how to present evidence that the Commerce debt is not delinquent or legally enforceable. In addition to challenging the existence and amount of the Commerce debt, the debtor may seek a review of the terms of repayment. In most cases, Commerce entities will provide the debtor with a “paper hearing” based upon a review of the written record, including documentation provided by the debtor. Commerce entities shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing when the debtor requests reconsideration of the Commerce debt and the Commerce entity determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the Commerce debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity. Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although Commerce entities should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing. Commerce entities may suspend collection through administrative offset and/or other collection actions pending the resolution of a debtor's dispute.


(d) *Procedures for expedited offset.* Under the circumstances described in 31 CFR 901.3(b)(4)(iii), Commerce entities may, with legal counsel approval, effect an offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to sending a notice to the debtor, as described in § 19.4 of this part, or completing the procedures described in paragraph (b)(2) and (c) of this section. Commerce entities shall give the debtor notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and promptly refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the Government. (*See* Commerce Department Credit and Debt Management Operating Standards and Procedures Handbook, available at *http://www.osec.doc.gov/ofm/credit.cover.html.*)




