# ยง 342.2   Description of notes.

(a) *General.* Savings notes were issued only in registered form and are nontransferable.


(b) *Term.* A savings note was dated as of the first day of the month in which payment of the purchase price was received by an issuing agent. A note had an original maturity period of 4 years and 6 months and has been granted two 10-year extensions of maturity and an additional extension of 5 years and 6 months with interest; it will reach final maturity 30 years from its issue date. A note cannot be called by the Secretary of the Treasury prior to maturity and was not redeemable during the first year from issue date. Thereafter, a note may be redeemed at the option and request of the owner.


(c) *Denominations and purchase prices.* Savings notes were issued on a discount basis. The denominations and purchase prices were as follows:


(d) *Inscription and issue.* At the time of issue, the authorized issuing agent:


(1) Inscribed on the face of each note the name and address of the owner and the name of the beneficiary, if any, or the names of the coowner;


(2) Entered the issue date in the right-hand portion of the note in the space provided for that purpose; and


(3) Imprinted thereunder, by use of the agent's validation indicia for the issue of Series E savings bonds, the date the note was actually inscribed. A note is valid only if an authorized issuing agent received payment therefor and duly inscribed, dated, imprinted validation indicia on the note and delivered it.




