# § 251.18   Post-importation requirements.

(a) *Stopping importation.* If at any point a SIP Sponsor determines that a drug, manufacturer, Foreign Seller, Importer, qualifying laboratory, or other participant in or element of the supply chain in the authorized SIP does not meet all applicable requirements of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, FDA regulations, and the authorized SIP, the SIP Sponsor must immediately stop importation of all drugs under the SIP, notify FDA, and demonstrate to FDA that importation has in fact been stopped.


(b) *Field alert reports.* Importers must submit NDA and ANDA field alert reports, as described in §§ 314.81(b)(1) and 314.98 of this chapter, to the manufacturer and to FDA.


(c) *Additional reporting requirements for combination products.* For combination products containing a device constituent part, Importers must submit the reports to the manufacturer and to FDA described in § 4.102(c)(1) of this chapter and maintain the records described in §§ 4.102(c)(1) and 4.105(b) of this chapter.


(d) *Adverse event reports*—(1) *Scope.* An Importer must establish and maintain records and submit to FDA and the manufacturer reports of all adverse events associated with the use of its drug products imported under this part.


(2) *Review of safety information.* The Importer must promptly review all domestic safety information for the eligible prescription drugs obtained or otherwise received by the Importer.


(3) *Expedited ICSRs.* The Importer must submit expedited ICSRs for each domestic adverse event to FDA and the manufacturer as soon as possible but no later than 15 calendar days from the date when the Importer has both met the reporting criteria described in this paragraph (d) and acquired a minimum data set for that adverse event.


(i) *Serious, unexpected adverse events.* The Importer must submit expedited ICSRs for domestic adverse events reported to the Importer spontaneously (such as reports initiated by a patient, consumer, or healthcare professional) that are both serious and unexpected, whether or not the Importer believes the events are related to the product.


(ii) *Other adverse event reports to be expedited upon notification by FDA.* Upon notification by FDA, the Importer must submit as expedited ICSRs any adverse event reports that do not qualify for expedited reporting under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. The notice will specify the adverse events to be reported and the reason for requiring the expedited reports.


(4) *Followup reports for expedited ICSRs.* The Importer must actively seek any missing data elements under paragraph (d)(7) of this section or updated information for any previously submitted expedited ICSR under paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The Importer must also investigate any new information it obtains or otherwise receives about previously submitted expedited ICSRs. The Importer must submit followup reports for expedited ICSRs to FDA and the manufacturer as soon as possible but no later than 15 calendar days after obtaining the new information. The Importer must document and maintain records of its efforts to obtain missing or incomplete information.


(5) *Nonexpedited ICSRs.* The Importer must submit to FDA and the manufacturer an ICSR for each domestic adverse event not reported under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section (all serious, expected adverse events and nonserious adverse events) within 90 calendar days from the date when the Importer has both met the reporting criteria described in this paragraph (d) and acquired a minimum data set for that adverse event.


(6) *Completing and submitting safety reports.* This paragraph (d)(6) describes how to complete and submit ICSRs required under this section. Additionally, upon written notice, FDA may require the Importer to submit any of this section's adverse event reports at a different time period than identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) and (7) through (11) of this section.


(i) *Electronic format for submissions.* (A) ICSR and ICSR attachments must be submitted in an electronic format that FDA can process, review, and archive, as described in § 314.80(g)(1) of this chapter.


(B) The Importer may request, in writing, a temporary waiver of the requirements in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section, as described in § 314.80(g)(2) of this chapter. These waivers will be granted on a limited basis for good cause shown.


(ii) *Completing and submitting ICSRs*—(A) *Single submission.* Submit each ICSR only once.


(B) *Separate ICSR.* The Importer must submit a separate ICSR for each patient who experiences an adverse event reportable under paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (ii) or (d)(4) or (5) of this section.


(C) *Coding terms.* The adverse event terms described in the ICSR must be coded using standardized medical terminology.


(D) *Minimum data set.* All ICSRs submitted under this section must contain at least the minimum data set for an adverse event. The Importer must actively seek the minimum data set in a manner consistent with its written procedures under paragraph (d)(9) of this section. The Importer must document and maintain records of its efforts to obtain the minimum data set.


(E) *ICSR elements.* The Importer must complete all available elements of an ICSR as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.


(*1*) The Importer must actively seek any information needed to complete all applicable elements, consistent with its written procedures under paragraph (d)(9) of this section.


(*2*) The Importer must document and maintain records of its efforts to obtain the missing information.


(F) *Supporting documentation.* When submitting supporting documentation for expedited ICSRs of adverse events, the Importer must:


(*1*) Submit for each ICSR for a domestic adverse event, if available, a copy of the autopsy report if the patient died, or a copy of the hospital discharge summary if the patient was hospitalized. The Importer must submit each document as an ICSR attachment. The ICSR attachment must be submitted either with the initial ICSR or no later than 15 calendar days after obtaining the document.


(*2*) Include in the ICSR a list of available, relevant documents (such as medical records, laboratory results, death certificates) that are held in its drug product safety files. Upon written notice from FDA, the Importer must submit a copy of these documents within 5 calendar days of the FDA notice.


(7) *Information reported on ICSRs.* ICSRs must include the following information:


(i) Patient information, which includes:


(A) Patient identification code;


(B) Patient age at the time of adverse event, or date of birth;


(C) Patient gender; and


(D) Patient weight.


(ii) Adverse event, which includes:


(A) Outcome attributed to adverse event;


(B) Date of adverse event;


(C) Date of ICSR submission;


(D) Description of adverse event (including a concise medical narrative);


(E) Adverse drug event term(s);


(F) Description of relevant tests, including dates and laboratory data; and


(G) Other relevant patient history, including preexisting medical conditions.


(iii) Suspect medical product(s), which includes:


(A) Name;


(B) Dose, frequency, and route of administration used;


(C) Therapy dates;


(D) Diagnosis for use (indication);


(E) Whether the product is a combination product;


(F) Whether adverse event abated after drug use stopped or dose reduced;


(G) Whether adverse event reappeared after reintroduction of drug;


(H) Lot number;


(I) Expiration date;


(J) NDC; and


(K) Concomitant medical products and therapy dates.


(iv) Initial reporter information, which includes:


(A) Name, address, and telephone number;


(B) Whether the initial reporter is a healthcare professional; and


(C) Occupation, if a healthcare professional.


(v) Importer information, which includes:


(A) Importer name and contact office address;


(B) Importer telephone number;


(C) Date the report was received by the Importer;


(D) Whether the ICSR is an expedited report;


(E) Whether the ICSR is an initial report or followup report; and


(F) Unique case identification number, which must be the same in the initial report and any subsequent followup report(s).


(8) *Recordkeeping.* (i) For a period of 10 years from the initial receipt of information, the Importer must maintain records of information relating to adverse event reports under this section, whether or not submitted to FDA.


(ii) These records must include raw data, correspondence, and any other information relating to the evaluation and reporting of adverse event information that is obtained by the Importer.


(iii) Upon written notice by FDA, the Importer must submit any or all of these records to FDA within 5 calendar days after receipt of the notice. The Importer must permit any authorized FDA employee, at reasonable times, to access, copy, and verify its established and maintained records described in this section.


(9) *Written procedures.* The Importer must develop written procedures needed to fulfill the requirements in this section for the surveillance, receipt, evaluation, and reporting to FDA and the manufacturer of adverse event information, including procedures for employee training, and for obtaining and processing safety information from the Foreign Seller.


(10) *Patient privacy.* The Importer must not include in reports under this section the names and addresses of individual patients; instead, the Importer must assign a unique code for identification of the patient. The Importer must include the name of the reporter from whom the information was received as part of the initial reporter information, even when the reporter is the patient. As set forth in FDA's public information regulations in part 20 of this chapter, FDA generally may not disclose the names of patients, individual reporters, healthcare professionals, hospitals, and geographical identifiers submitted to FDA in adverse event reports.


(11) *Safety reporting disclaimer.* (i) A report or information submitted by the Importer under this section (and any release by FDA of that report or information) does not necessarily reflect a conclusion by the Importer or by FDA that the report or information constitutes an admission that the eligible prescription drug imported under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act caused or contributed to an adverse event.


(ii) The Importer need not admit, and may deny, that the report or information submitted as described in this section constitutes an admission that the drug product caused or contributed to an adverse event.


(e) *Drug recalls.* (1) The SIP Sponsor must establish a procedure to track the public announcements of the manufacturer of each drug it imports under section 804 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and the SIP Sponsor must also monitor FDA's recall website for recall or market withdrawal information relevant to the drugs that it imports under section 804.


(2) If FDA, the SIP Sponsor, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the manufacturer determines that a recall is warranted, the SIP Sponsor must effectuate the recall in accordance with its written recall plan under paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(3) A SIP must have a written recall plan that describes the procedures to perform a recall of the product and specifies who will be responsible for performing the procedures. The recall plan must cover recalls mandated or requested by FDA and recalls initiated by the SIP Sponsor, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the manufacturer. The recall plan must include sufficient procedures for the SIP Sponsor to:


(i) Immediately cease distribution of the drugs affected by the recall;


(ii) Directly notify consignees of the drug(s) included in the recall, including how to return or dispose of the recalled drugs;


(iii) Specify the depth to which the recall will extend (e.g., wholesale, intermediate wholesale, retail or consumer level) if not specified by FDA;


(iv) Notify the public about any hazard(s) presented by the recalled drug when appropriate to protect the public health;


(v) Conduct effectiveness checks to verify that all consignees at the specified recall depth have received notification about the recall and have taken appropriate action;


(vi) Appropriately dispose of recalled product; and


(vii) Notify FDA of the recall.


(4) In the event of a recall, the Importer must, upon request by FDA, provide transaction history, information, and statement (as these terms are defined in sections 581(25), 581(26), and 581(27) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act), in accordance with applicable requirements under sections 582(c)(1)(C) and 582(d)(1)(D).


(i) The Importer must also provide to FDA, upon request, information given by the manufacturer under § 251.14(a)(6), including transaction documents that were provided from the manufacturer to the Foreign Seller.


(ii) The Foreign Seller must provide to FDA, upon request, information about its transactions of the recalled drug with the manufacturer and the Importer.


(5) The Foreign Seller and Importer must cooperate with any recalls, including recalls initiated by the SIP Sponsor, FDA, the Foreign Seller, the Importer, or the drug's manufacturer.




