# § 5.22   Federal stock savings association charter and bylaws.

(a) *Authority.* 12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, and 2901 *et seq.*

(b) *Licensing requirements.* A Federal stock savings association must file an application, notice, or other filing as prescribed by this section when adopting or amending its charter or bylaws.


(c) *Scope.* This section describes the procedures and requirements governing charters and bylaws for Federal stock savings associations.


(d) *Exceptions to rules of general applicability.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, §§ 5.8 through 5.11 do not apply to this section.


(e) *Charter form.* The charter of a Federal stock association must be in the following form, except as provided in this section. An association that has converted from the mutual form pursuant to part 192 of this chapter must include in its charter a section establishing a liquidation account as required by § 192.485 of this chapter. A charter for a Federal stock savings bank must substitute the term “savings bank” for “association.” Charters may also include any preapproved optional provision contained in this section.


(f) *Charter amendments.* In order to adopt a charter amendment, a Federal stock savings association must comply with the following requirements:


(1) *Board of directors approval.* The board of directors of the association must adopt a resolution proposing the charter amendment that states the text of such amendment;


(2) *Form of filing*—(i) *Application requirement.* Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, a Federal stock savings association must file the proposed charter amendment with, and obtain the prior approval of the OCC.


(A) *Expedited review.* Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the charter amendment will be deemed approved as of the 30th day after filing, unless the OCC notifies the filer that the amendment is denied or that the amendment contains procedures of the type described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section and is not subject to expedited review, provided the association follows the requirements of its charter in adopting the amendment.


(B) *Amendments exempted from expedited review.* Expedited review is not available for a charter amendment that would render more difficult or discourage a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a block of the association's stock, the removal of incumbent management, or involve a significant issue of law or policy.


(ii) *Notice requirement.* No application under paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is required if the amendment is contained within paragraphs (e) or (g) of this section. In such case, the Federal stock savings association must submit a notice with the charter amendment to the OCC within 30 days after adoption.


(3) *Effectiveness.* A charter amendment is effective after approval by the OCC, if required, and adoption by the association, provided the association follows the requirements of its charter in adopting the amendments.


(g) *Optional charter amendments.* The following charter amendments are subject to the notice requirement in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section if adopted without change:


(1) *Title change.* A Federal stock association that complies with § 5.42 of this chapter may amend its charter by substituting a new corporate title in section 1.


(2) *Home office.* A Federal savings association may amend its charter by substituting a new home office in section 2, if it has complied with applicable requirements of § 5.40.


(3) *Number of shares of stock and par value.* A Federal stock association may amend Section 5 of its charter to change the number of authorized shares of stock, the number of shares within each class of stock, and the par or stated value of such shares.


(4) *Capital stock.* A Federal stock association may amend its charter by revising Section 5 to read as follows:


(5) *Limitations on subsequent issuances.* A Federal stock association may amend its charter to require shareholder approval of the issuance or reservation of common stock or securities convertible into common stock under circumstances which would require shareholder approval under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange if the shares were then listed on the New York Stock Exchange.


(6) *Cumulative voting.* A Federal stock association may amend its charter by substituting the following sentence for the second sentence in the third paragraph of Section 5: “Each holder of shares of common stock will be entitled to one vote for each share held by such holder and there will be no right to cumulate votes in an election of directors.”


(7) *Anti-takeover provisions following mutual to stock conversion.* Notwithstanding the law of the State in which the association is located, a Federal stock association may amend its charter by renumbering existing sections as appropriate and adding a new section 8 as follows:


(h) *Anti-takeover provisions.* The OCC may grant approval to a charter amendment not listed in paragraph (g) of this section regarding the acquisition by any person or persons of its equity securities provided that the association files as part of its application pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section an opinion, acceptable to the OCC, of counsel independent from the association that the proposed charter provision would be permitted to be adopted by a corporation chartered by the State in which the principal office of the association is located. Any such provision must be consistent with applicable statutes, regulations, and OCC policies. Further, any such provision that would have the effect of rendering more difficult a change in control of the association and would require for any corporate action (other than the removal of directors) the affirmative vote of a larger percentage of shareholders than is required by this part, may not be effective unless adopted by a percentage of shareholder vote at least equal to the highest percentage that would be required to take any action under such provision.


(i) *Reissuance of charter.* A Federal stock association that has amended its charter may apply to have its charter, including the amendments, reissued by the OCC. Such requests for reissuance should be filed with the appropriate OCC licensing office, and contain signatures required in the form “Federal Stock Charter” in paragraph (e) of this section, together with such supporting documents as needed to demonstrate that the amendments were properly adopted.


(j) *Bylaws for Federal stock savings associations*—(1) *In general.* Bylaws may be adopted, amended or repealed by either a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders at a legal meeting or a majority of the board of directors. A bylaw provision inconsistent with paragraph (k), (l), (m) or (n) of this section may be adopted only with the approval of the OCC.


(2) *Form of filing*—(i) *Application requirement.* Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2)(ii) or (j)(2)(iii) of this section, a Federal stock savings association must file the proposed bylaw amendment with, and obtain the prior approval of, the OCC.


(A) *Expedited review.* Except as provided in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the bylaw amendment will be deemed approved as of the 30th day after filing, unless the OCC notifies the filer that the application is denied or that the amendment contains procedures of the type described in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(B) of this section and is not eligible for expedited review, provided the association follows the requirements of its charter and bylaws in adopting the amendment.


(B) *Amendments exempted from expedited review.* Expedited review is not available for a bylaw amendment that would:


(*1*) Render more difficult or discourage a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest, the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of the association's stock, or the removal of incumbent management; or


(*2*) Be inconsistent with paragraphs (k) through (n) of this section, with applicable laws, rules, regulations or the association's charter or involve a significant issue of law or policy, including indemnification, conflicts of interest, and limitations on director or officer liability.


(ii) *Corporate governance election and notice requirement.* A Federal stock association may elect to follow the corporate governance provisions of: The laws of any State in which the home office or any branch of the association is located; the laws of any State in which a holding company of the association is incorporated or chartered; Delaware General Corporation law; or the Model Business Corporation Act, provided that such provisions may be elected to the extent not inconsistent with applicable Federal statutes and regulations and safety and soundness, and such provisions are not of the type described in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(B) of this section. If this election is selected, a Federal stock association must designate in its bylaws the provision or provisions from the body or bodies of law selected for its corporate governance provisions, and must file a notice containing a copy of such bylaws, within 30 days after adoption. The notice must indicate, where not obvious, why the bylaw provisions meet the requirements stated in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(B) of this section. A Federal stock savings association that has elected to follow the corporate governance provisions of the law of the State in which its holding company is incorporated may continue to use those provisions even if the association is no longer controlled by that holding company.


(iii) *No filing required.* No filing is required for purposes of paragraph (j)(2) of this section if a bylaw amendment adopts the language of the OCC's model or optional bylaws without change.


(3) *Effectiveness.* A bylaw amendment is effective after approval by the OCC, if required, and adoption by the association, provided that the association follows the requirements of its charter and bylaws in adopting the amendment.


(4) *Effect of subsequent charter or bylaw change.* Notwithstanding any subsequent change to its charter or bylaws, the authority of a Federal savings association to engage in any transaction is determined only by the association's charter or bylaws then in effect.


(k) *Shareholders of Federal stock savings associations*—(1) *Shareholder meetings*—(i) *In general.* A meeting of the shareholders of the association for the election of directors and for the transaction of any other business of the association must be held annually within 150 days after the end of the association's fiscal year. Unless otherwise provided in the association's charter, special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the board of directors or on the request of the holders of 10 percent or more of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting, or by such other persons as may be specified in the bylaws of the association.


(ii) *Location of shareholder meetings*—(A) *In general.* All annual and special meetings of shareholders of the association may be held at any convenient place the board of directors may designate. The association's bylaws may provide for the telephonic or electronic participation of shareholders in these meetings. Shareholders participating in an annual or special meeting telephonically or electronically will be deemed present in person for purposes of the quorum requirement in paragraph (k)(5) of this section.


(B) *Procedures for telephonic or electronic participation.* If the association's bylaws provide for telephonic or electronic participation in shareholder meetings, the association must elect to follow corporate governance provisions for these meetings pursuant to paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section that include procedures for telephonic or electronic participation in shareholder meetings. The association must indicate the use of these elected procedures in its bylaws.


(2) *Notice of shareholder meetings.* Written notice stating the place, day, and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called must be delivered not fewer than 20 nor more than 50 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, by or at the direction of the chair of the board, the president, the secretary, or the directors, or other persons calling the meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice will be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the mail, addressed to the shareholder at the address appearing on the stock transfer books or records of the association as of the record date prescribed in paragraph (k)(3) of this section, with postage thereon prepaid. When any shareholders' meeting, either annual or special, is adjourned for 30 days or more, notice of the adjourned meeting must be given as in the case of an original meeting. Notwithstanding anything in this section, however, a Federal stock association that is wholly owned is not subject to the shareholder notice requirement.


(3) *Fixing of record date.* For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the board of directors must fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders. Such date in any case may not be more than 60 days and, in case of a meeting of shareholders, not less than 10 days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring such determination of shareholders, is to be taken. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, such determination will apply to any adjournment thereof.


(4) *Voting lists.* (i) At least 20 days before each meeting of the shareholders, the officer or agent having charge of the stock transfer books for the shares of the association must make a complete list of the stockholders of record entitled to vote at such meeting, or any adjournments thereof, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address and the number of shares held by each. This list of shareholders must be kept on file at the home office of the association and is subject to inspection by any shareholder of record or the stockholder's agent during the entire time of the meeting. The original stock transfer book will constitute *prima facie* evidence of the stockholders entitled to examine such list or transfer books or to vote at any meeting of stockholders. Notwithstanding anything in this section, however, a Federal stock association that is wholly owned is not subject to the voting list requirements.


(ii) In lieu of making the shareholders list available for inspection by any shareholders as provided in paragraph (k)(4)(i) of this section, the board of directors may perform such acts as required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 14a-7 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (17 CFR 240.14a-7) as may be duly requested in writing, with respect to any matter which may be properly considered at a meeting of shareholders, by any shareholder who is entitled to vote on such matter and who must defray the reasonable expenses to be incurred by the association in performance of the act or acts required.


(5) *Shareholder quorum.* A majority of the outstanding shares of the association entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, constitutes a quorum at a meeting of shareholders. The shareholders present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter will be the act of the stockholders, unless the vote of a greater number of stockholders voting together or voting by classes is required by law or the charter. Directors, however, are elected by a plurality of the votes cast at an election of directors.


(6) *Shareholder voting*—(i) *Proxies.* Unless otherwise provided in the association's charter, at all meetings of shareholders, a shareholder may vote in person or by proxy executed in writing by the shareholder or by a duly authorized attorney in fact. Proxies may be given telephonically or electronically as long as the holder uses a procedure for verifying the identity of the shareholder. Proxies solicited on behalf of the management must be voted as directed by the shareholder or, in the absence of such direction, as determined by a majority of the board of directors. No proxy maybe valid more than eleven months from the date of its execution except for a proxy coupled with an interest.


(ii) *Shares controlled by association.* Neither treasury shares of its own stock held by the association nor shares held by another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote for the election of directors of such other corporation are held by the association, may be voted at any meeting or counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time for purposes of any meeting.


(7) *Nominations and new business submitted by shareholders.* Nominations for directors and new business submitted by shareholders must be voted upon at the annual meeting if such nominations or new business are submitted in writing and delivered to the secretary of the association at least five days prior to the date of the annual meeting. Ballots bearing the names of all the persons nominated must be provided for use at the annual meeting.


(8) *Informal action by stockholders.* If the bylaws of the association so provide, any action required to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders, or any other action that may be taken at a meeting of the stockholders, may be taken without a meeting if consent in writing has been given by all the stockholders entitled to vote with respect to the subject matter.


(l) *Board of directors*—(1) *General powers and duties.* The business and affairs of the association must be under the direction of its board of directors. Directors need not be stockholders unless the bylaws so require.


(2) *Number and term.* The bylaws must set forth a specific number of directors, not a range. The number of directors may not be fewer than five nor more than fifteen, unless a higher or lower number has been authorized by the OTS prior to July 21, 2011 or the OCC. Directors must be elected for a term of one to three years and until their successors are elected and qualified. If a staggered board is chosen, the directors must be divided into two or three classes as nearly equal in number as possible and one class must be elected by ballot annually.


(3) *Regular meetings.* The board of directors determines the place, frequency, time and procedure for notice of regular meetings. The bylaws may provide for telephonic or electronic participation at these meetings.


(4) *Quorum.* A majority of the number of directors constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board of directors. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present will be the act of the board of directors, unless a greater number is prescribed by regulation of the OCC.


(5) *Vacancies.* Any vacancy occurring in the board of directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors even with less than a quorum of the board of directors. A director elected to fill a vacancy may serve only until the next election of directors by the shareholders. Any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of directors may be filled by election by the board of directors for a term of office continuing only until the next election of directors by the shareholders.


(6) *Removal or resignation of directors.* (i) At a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, any director may be removed only for cause, as termination for cause is defined in § 5.21(j)(2)(x)(B), by a vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. Associations may provide for procedures regarding resignations in the bylaws.


(ii) If less than the entire board is to be removed, no one of the directors may be removed if the votes cast against the removal would be sufficient to elect a director if then cumulatively voted at an election of the class of directors of which such director is a part.


(iii) Whenever the holders of the shares of any class are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the charter or supplemental sections thereto, the provisions of this section apply, in respect to the removal of a director or directors so elected, to the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of that class and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole.


(7) *Executive and other committees.* The board of directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the full board, may designate from among its members an executive committee and one or more other committees. No committee may have the authority of the board of directors with reference to: The declaration of dividends; the amendment of the charter or bylaws of the association; recommending to the stockholders a plan of merger, consolidation, or conversion; the sale, lease, or other disposition of all, or substantially all, of the property and assets of the association otherwise than in the usual and regular course of its business; a voluntary dissolution of the association; a revocation of any of the foregoing; or the approval of a transaction in which any member of the executive committee, directly or indirectly, has any material beneficial interest. The designation of any committee and the delegation of authority thereto does not operate to relieve the board of directors, or any director, of any responsibility imposed by law or regulation.


(8) *Notice of special meetings.* Written notice of at least 24 hours regarding any special meeting of the board of directors or of any committee designated thereby must be given to each director in accordance with the bylaws, although such notice may be waived by the director. The attendance of a director at a meeting constitutes a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting. The bylaws may provide for telephonic or electronic participation at a special meeting.


(9) *Action without a meeting.* Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors at a meeting may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the actions so taken, is signed by all of the directors.


(10) *Presumption of assent.* A director of the association who is present at a meeting of the board of directors at which action on any association matter is taken is presumed to have assented to the action taken unless their dissent or abstention is entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless a written dissent to such action is filed with the person acting as the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or is forwarded by registered mail to the secretary of the association within five days after the date on which a copy of the minutes of the meeting is received. Such right to dissent does not apply to a director who voted in favor of such action.


(11) *Age limitation on directors.* A Federal association may provide a bylaw on age limitation for directors. Bylaws on age limitations must comply with all Federal laws, rules and regulations.


(m) *Officers*—(1) *Positions.* The officers of the association must consist of a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, and a treasurer or comptroller, each of whom must be elected by the board of directors. The board of directors may also designate the chair of the board as an officer. The offices of the secretary and treasurer or comptroller may be held by the same person and the vice president may also be either the secretary or the treasurer or comptroller. The board of directors may designate one or more vice presidents as executive vice president or senior vice president.


(2) *Removal.* Any officer may be removed by the board of directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the association will be served thereby; but such removal, other than for cause, as termination for cause is defined in § 5.21(j)(2)(x)(B), will be without prejudice to the contractual rights, if any, of the person so removed. 

(3) *Age limitation on officers.* A Federal association may provide a bylaw on age limitation for officers. Bylaws on age limitations must comply with all Federal laws, rules, and regulations.


(n) *Certificates for shares and their transfer*—(1) *Certificates for shares.* Certificates representing shares of capital stock of the association must be in such form as determined by the board of directors and approved by the OCC. The name and address of the person to whom the shares are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, must be entered on the stock transfer books of the association. All certificates surrendered to the association for transfer must be cancelled and no new certificate may be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares has been surrendered and cancelled, except that in the case of a lost or destroyed certificate a new certificate may be issued upon such terms and indemnity to the association as the board of directors may prescribe.


(2) *Transfer of shares.* Transfer of shares of capital stock of the association may be made only on its stock transfer books. Authority for such transfer may be given only by the holder of record or by a legal representative, who must furnish proper evidence of such authority, or by an attorney authorized by a duly executed power of attorney and filed with the association. The transfer may be made only on surrender for cancellation of the certificate for the shares. The person in whose name shares of capital stock stand on the books of the association is deemed by the association to be the owner for all purposes.



---

[N] [80 FR 28425, May 18, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 8103, Jan. 23, 2017; 85 FR 31948, May 28, 2020; 85 FR 80440, Dec. 11, 2020; 85 FR 83726, Dec. 22, 2020]




