# § 19.24   Action by agency of original jurisdiction on Notice of Disagreement required to be filed on a standardized form.

(a) *Initial action.* When a timely Notice of Disagreement in accordance with the requirements of § 19.21(a) is filed, the agency of original jurisdiction will reexamine the claim and determine whether additional review or development is warranted.


(b) *Incomplete and complete appeal forms*—(1) *Incomplete appeal forms.* In cases governed by § 19.21(a), if VA determines a form filed by the claimant is incomplete and requests clarification, the claimant must timely file a completed version of the correct form in order to initiate an appeal. A claimant is not required to cure or correct the filing of an incomplete form by filing a completed version of the correct form unless VA informs the claimant or his or her representative that the form is incomplete and requests clarification.


(2) *Complete appeal forms.* In general, a form will be considered complete if the following information is provided:


(i) Information to identify the claimant;


(ii) The claim to which the form pertains;


(iii) Any information necessary to identify the specific nature of the disagreement if the form so requires. For compensation claims, this criterion will be met if the form enumerates the issues or conditions for which appellate review is sought, or if it provides other information required on the form to identify the claimant and the nature of the disagreement (such as disagreement with disability rating, effective date, or denial of service connection); and


(iv) The claimant's signature.


(3) *Timeframe to complete correct form.* In general, a claimant who wishes to initiate an appeal must provide a complete form within the timeframe established by § 19.52(a). When VA requests clarification of an incomplete form, the claimant must provide a complete form in response to VA's request for clarification within the later of the following dates:


(i) 60 days from the date of the request; or


(ii) 1 year from the date of mailing of the notice of the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction.


(4) *Failure to respond.* If the claimant fails to provide a completed form within the timeframe set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction will become final.


(5) *Form timely completed.* If a completed form is received within the timeframe set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, VA will treat the completed form as the Notice of Disagreement and VA will reexamine the claim and determine whether additional review or development is warranted. If no further review or development is required, or after necessary review or development is completed, VA will prepare a Statement of the Case pursuant to § 19.29 unless the disagreement is resolved by a grant of the benefit(s) sought on appeal or the NOD is withdrawn by the claimant.


(c) *Issues under appellate review.* If a form enumerates some but not all of the issues or conditions which were the subject of the decision of the agency of original jurisdiction, the form will be considered complete with respect to the issues for which appellate review is sought and identified by the claimant. Any issues or conditions not enumerated will not be considered appealed on the basis of the filing of that form and will become final unless the claimant timely files a separate form for those issues or conditions within the applicable timeframe set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(d) *Disagreement concerning whether Notice of Disagreement has been filed.* Whether or not a claimant has timely filed a Notice of Disagreement is an appealable issue, but in such a case, appellate consideration shall be limited to the question of whether the correct form was timely filed.



---

[N] [79 FR 57697, Sept. 25, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 178, Jan. 18, 2019]




