# ยง 3415.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


(a) *Ad hoc reviewers* means experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to render special expert advice, through written evaluations of grant applications, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific or technical merit of grant applications in those fields.


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.


(c) *Awarding official* means the Director or Administrator and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority to issue or modify grant instruments has been delegated.


(d) *Biotechnology* means any technique that uses living organisms (or parts of organisms) to make or modify products, to improve plants or animals, or to develop microorganisms for specific use. The development of materials that mimic molecular structures or functions of living systems is included.


(e) *Budget period* means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes.


(f) *Department* means the Department of Agriculture.


(g) *Director* means the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) and any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom the authority involved may be delegated.


(h) *Grant* means the award by the Director or Administrator of funds to a grantee to assist in meeting the costs of conducting, for the benefit of the public, an identified project which is intended and designed to establish, discover, elucidate, or confirm information or the underlying mechanisms relating to a research program area identified in program solicitation.


(i) *Grantee* means the entity designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a grant is awarded under this part.


(j) *Peer review group* means an assembled group of experts or consultants qualified by training and experience in particular scientific or technical fields to give expert advice, in accordance with the provisions of this part, on the scientific and technical merit of grant applications in those fields.


(k) *Principal investigator* means a single individual who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project, as designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Director or Administrator.


(l) *Project* means the particular activity within the scope of one or more of the research program areas identified in the annual program solicitation that is supported by a grant under this part.


(m) *Project period* means the total time approved by the Director or Administrator for conducting the proposed project as outlined in an approved grant application.


(n) *Research* means any systematic study directed toward new or fuller knowledge and understanding of the subject studied.


(o) *Methodology* means the project approach to be followed to carry out the project.



---

[N] [58 FR 65647, Dec. 15, 1993, as amended at 76 FR 4811, Jan. 27, 2011]




