# § 238.735   Seat crashworthiness (passenger and cab crew).

(a) Passenger seating in Tier III trainsets shall comply with the requirements referenced in either of the following paragraphs:


(1) Section 238.233 and APTA PR-CS-S-016-99 excluding Section 6, “Seat durability testing;” or


(2) Section 6.2, “Seats for passengers, personnel, or train crew,” of GM/RT2100, provided that—


(i) The conditions of § 238.705(b)(2) are met;


(ii) Seat attachment strength is sufficient to resist without failure individually applied loads of 5g longitudinal, 3g lateral, and 3g applied to the mass of the seat; and


(iii) Use of the standard is carried out under any conditions identified by the railroad, as approved by FRA.


(b) Each seat provided for an employee in the cab of a Tier III trainset, and any floor-mounted seat in the cab, shall comply with § 238.233(e), (f), and (g).


(c) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC and are available from the sources indicated below. They are also available for inspection at NARA. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*.


(1) American Public Transportation Association, 1666 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20006, *www.aptastandards.com*.


(i) APTA PR-CS-S-016-99, Rev. 2, “Standard for Passenger Seats in Passenger Rail Cars,” Authorized October 3, 2010.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) Rail Safety and Standards Board Ltd., Communications, RSSB, Block 2 Angel Square, 1 Torrens Street, London, England EC1V 1NY, *www.rgsonline.co.uk*.


(i) Railway Group Standard GM/RT2100, Issue Four, “Requirements for Rail Vehicle Structures,” December 2010.


(ii) [Reserved]




