# § 191.61   Verification of drawback claims.

(a) *Authority*—(1) *Drawback office.* All claims shall be subject to verification by the port director where the claim is filed.


(2) *Two or more locations.* The port director selecting the claim for verification may forward copies of the claim and, as applicable, letters of notification and acknowledgement for the general manufacturing drawback ruling or application and letter of approval for a specific manufacturing drawback ruling, and request for verification, to other drawback offices when deemed necessary.


(b) *Method.* The verifying office shall verify compliance with the law and this part, the accuracy of the related general manufacturing drawback ruling or specific manufacturing drawback ruling (as applicable), and the selected drawback claims. Verification may include an examination of all records relating to the transaction(s).


(c) *Liquidation.* When a claim has been selected for verification, liquidation will be postponed only on the drawback entries for those claims selected for verification. Postponement will continue in effect until the verification has been completed and the appropriate port director issues a report. In the event that a substantial error is revealed during the verification, Customs may postpone liquidation of all related product line claims, or, in Customs discretion, all claims for that claimant.


(d) *Errors in specific or general manufacturing drawback rulings*—(1) *Specific manufacturing drawback ruling; action by port director.* If verification of a drawback claim filed under a specific manufacturing drawback ruling (see § 191.8 of this part) reveals errors of deficiencies in the drawback ruling or application therefor, the port director shall promptly inform CBP Headquarters (Attention: Entry Process and Duty Refunds Branch, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade).


(2) *General manufacturing drawback ruling.* If verification of a drawback claim filed under a general manufacturing drawback ruling (see § 191.7 of this part) reveals errors or deficiencies in a general manufacturing drawback ruling, the letter of notification of intent to operate under the general manufacturing drawback ruling, or the acknowledgment of the letter of notification of intent, the port director shall promptly inform CBP Headquarters (Attention: Entry Process and Duty Refunds Branch, Regulations and Rulings, Office of International Trade).


(3) *Action by CBP Headquarters.* CBP Headquarters shall review the stated errors or deficiencies and take appropriate action (see 19 U.S.C. 1625; 19 CFR part 177).



---

[N] [T.D. 98-16, 63 FR 11006, Mar. 5, 1998; 63 FR 15288, Mar. 31, 1998]




