# § 7.52   Legibility and other requirements for mandatory information on labels.

(a) *Readily legible.* Mandatory information on labels must be readily legible to potential consumers under ordinary conditions.


(b) *Separate and apart.* Subject to the exceptions below, mandatory information on labels, except brand names, must be separate and apart from any additional information.


(1) This does not preclude the addition of brief optional phrases of additional information as part of the class or type designation (such as “premium malt beverage”), the name and address statement (such as “Proudly brewed and bottled by ABC Brewing Co. in Pittsburgh, PA, for over 30 years”), or other information required by § 7.63(a). The statements required by § 7.63(b) may not include additional information.


(2) Mandatory information (other than an aspartame declaration required by § 7.63(b)(4)) may be contained among other descriptive or explanatory information if the script, type, or printing of the mandatory information is substantially more conspicuous than that of the descriptive or explanatory information.


(c) *Contrasting background.* Mandatory information must appear in a color that contrasts with the background on which it appears, except that if the net contents or the name and address are blown into a glass container, they need not be contrasting. The color of the container and of the malt beverages must be taken into account if the label is transparent or if mandatory label information is etched, engraved, sandblasted, or otherwise carved into the surface of the container or is branded, stenciled, painted, printed, or otherwise directly applied on to the surface of the container. Examples of acceptable contrasts are:


(1) Black lettering appearing on a white or cream background; or


(2) White or cream lettering appearing on a black background.


(d) *Capitalization.* Except for the aspartame statement when required by § 7.63(b)(4), which must appear in all capital letters, mandatory information may appear in all capital letters, in all lower case letters, or in mixed-case using both capital and lower-case letters.




