# § 20.2051-1   Definition of taxable estate.

(a) *General rule.* The taxable estate of a decedent who was a citizen or resident (see § 20.0-1(b)(1)) of the United States at death is determined by subtracting the total amount of the deductions authorized by sections 2053 through 2058 from the total amount which must be included in the gross estate under sections 2031 through 2044. These deductions are in general as follows—


(1) Funeral and administration expenses and claims against the estate (including certain taxes and charitable pledges) (section 2053).


(2) Losses from casualty or theft during the administration of the estate (section 2054).


(3) Charitable transfers (section 2055).


(4) The marital deduction (section 2056).


(5) Qualified domestic trusts (section 2056A).


(6) Family-owned business interests (section 2057) to the extent applicable to estates of decedents.


(7) State death taxes (section 2058) to the extent applicable to estates of decedents.


(b) *Special rules.* See section 2106 and the corresponding regulations for special rules regarding the computation of the taxable estate of a decedent who was not a citizen or resident of the United States. See also § 1.642(g)-1 of this chapter concerning the disallowance for income tax purposes of certain deductions allowed for estate tax purposes.


(c) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to the estates of decedents dying on or after October 20, 2009.



---

[N] [T.D. 9468, 74 FR 53657, Oct. 20, 2009]




