# ยง 32.12   Discrimination prohibited.

(a) *General.* (1) No qualified handicapped individual shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity to which this part applies. This subpart is applicable to employees and applicants for employment with all recipients and to participants in employment and training under programs or activities financed in whole or in part by Federal financial assistance. 


(2) A recipient shall make all decisions concerning employment or training under any program or activity to which this subpart applies in a manner which ensures that discrimination on the basis of handicap does not occur and may not limit, segregate, or classify applicants or employees or participants in any way that adversely affects their opportunities or status because of handicap. 


(3) A recipient may not participate in a contractual or other relationship that has the effect of subjecting qualified handicapped applicants, employees or participants to discrimination prohibited by this subpart. The relationships referred to in this subparagraph include relationships with employment and referral agencies, with labor unions, with organizations providing or administering fringe benefits to employees of the recipient, and with organizations providing training and apprenticeships. 


(b) *Specific activities.* The provisions of this subpart apply to: 


(1) Recruitment advertising, and the processing of applicants for employment; 


(2) Hiring, upgrading, promotion, award of tenure, demotion, transfer, layoff, termination, right of return from layoff and rehiring; 


(3) Rates of pay or any other form of compensation and changes in compensation; 


(4) Job assignments, job classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists; 


(5) Leaves of absence, sick leave, or any other leave; 


(6) Fringe benefits available by virture of employment, whether or not administered by the recipient; 


(7) Selection and financial support for training, including apprenticeship, professional meetings, conferences, and other related activities, and selection for leaves of absence to pursue training; 


(8) Employer-sponsored activities, including those that are social or recreational; and 


(9) Any other term, condition, or privilege of employment. 


(c) *Collective bargaining agreements.* Whenever a recipient's obligation to comply with this subpart and to correct discriminatory practices impacts on and/or necessitates changes in a term of a collective bargaining agreement(s) to which the recipient is a party, the recipient shall attempt to achieve compliance consistent with the provisions of ยง 32.17(a). However a recipient's obligation to comply with this subpart is not relieved by a term of any such collective bargaining agreement(s). 


(d) *Compensation.* In offering employment or promotions to handicapped individuals, the recipient shall not reduce the amount of compensation offered because of any disability income, pension or other benefit the applicant or employee receives from other source. 



---

[N] [45 FR 66709, Oct. 7, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51368, Aug. 26, 2003]




