# ยง 146.66   Transfer of merchandise from one zone to another.

(a) *At the same port.* A transfer of merchandise to another zone with a different operator at the same port (including a consolidated port) must be made by a licensed cartman or a bonded carrier as provided for in ยง 112.2(b) of this chapter or by the operator of the zone for which the merchandise is destined under an entry for immediate transportation filed via an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter or other appropriate form with a CBP Form 214 filed at the destination zone. A transfer of merchandise between zone sites at the same port having the same operator may be made under a permit on CBP Form 6043 or under a local control system approved by the port director wherein any loss of merchandise between sites will be treated as if the loss occurred in the zone.


(b) *At a different port.* A transfer of merchandise from a zone at one port of entry to a zone at another port must be made by bonded carrier under an entry for immediate transportation filed via an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter. All copies of the entry must bear a notation that the merchandise is being transferred to another zone designated by its number.


(c) *Forwarding of merchandise history; documentation.* When merchandise is transferred under the provisions of this section, the operator of the transferring zone shall provide the operator of the destination zone with the documented history of the merchandise being transferred.


(1) The following documentation must accompany merchandise maintained under a lot inventory control system:


(i) A copy of the original CBP Form(s) 214 with accompanying invoices for admission of the merchandise and all components thereof;


(ii) A copy of any CBP Form 214 filed subsequent to admission to change the status of the merchandise or its components; and


(iii) A copy of any CBP Form 216 to manipulate or manufacture the merchandise.


(2) The following documentation must accompany merchandise not under a lot system, and not manufactured in a zone:


(i) A copy of the original CBP Form(s) 214 with accompanying invoices for admission of the merchandise as attributed under the particular zone inventory method;


(ii) A copy of any CBP Form 214 filed subsequent to admission to change the status of the merchandise as attributed under the particular zone inventory method; and


(iii) A copy of any CBP Form 216 to manipulate the merchandise as attributed under the particular zone inventory method.


(3) If the documents specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are not presented, the operator of the transferring zone shall submit the following:


(i) A statement of the zone value, dutiable value, quantity, description, unique identifier, and zone status (showing any changes of status after admission and whether the merchandise was manipulated so as to change its tariff classification) of all the merchandise in the shipment covered by the transportation entry; and 


(ii) A certification that the statement in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, is true and that the information contained therein is contained in the inventory control and recordkeeping system of the transferring zone. 


(4) The following documentation must accompany merchandise not under a lot system, but manufactured in a zone:


(i) A statement by the transferring zone operator of the zone value, dutiable value, quantity, description, unique identifier, and zone status of all the merchandise (and components thereof, where applicable) covered by the transportation entry. The statement will also show any change in zone status in the transferring zone and whether the merchandise has been manufactured or manipulated in the zone so as to change its tariff classification; and


(ii) A certification by the operator of the transferring zone that the statement in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section is true and the information therein is contained in the inventory control and recordkeeping system of the zone.


(5) The operator of the transferring zone shall transmit the historical documentation of the merchandise to the receiving zone within 10 working days after it has been delivered to the bonded carrier for transportation. The documentation will be referenced to the I.T. number covering the merchandise. 


(d) *Arrival at destination zone.* Upon arrival of the merchandise at the destination zone, it will be admitted under the procedure provided for in ยง 146.32, except that no invoice or Customs examination will be required. When the historical documentation is received, the operator of the destination zone shall associate it with the CBP Form 214 for admission of the merchandise and incorporate that information into the zone inventory control and recordkeeping system.



---

[N] [T.D. 86-16, 51 FR 5049, Feb. 11, 1986, as amended by T.D. 94-81, 59 FR 51497, Oct. 12, 1994; CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45407, Sept. 28, 2017]




