# ยง 1108.11   Enforcement and appeals.

(a) *Petitions to modify or vacate.* A party may petition the Board to modify or vacate an arbitral award. The appeal must be filed within 20 days of service upon the Board of a final arbitration decision, and is subject to the page limitations of ยง 1115.2(d) of this chapter. Copies of the appeal shall be served upon all parties in accordance with the Board's rules at part 1104 of this chapter. The appealing party shall also serve a copy of its appeal upon the arbitrator(s). Replies to such appeals shall be filed within 20 days of the filing of the appeal with the Board, and shall be subject to the page limitations of ยง 1115.2(d) of this chapter.


(b) *Board's standard of review.* On appeal, the Board's standard of review of arbitration decisions will be narrow. The Board will review a decision to determine if the decision is consistent with sound principles of rail regulation economics, a clear abuse of arbitral authority or discretion occurred; the decision directly contravenes statutory authority; or the award limitation was violated. Using this standard, the Board may modify or vacate an arbitration award in whole or in part.


(1) Board decisions vacating or modifying arbitration decisions under the Board's standard of review are reviewable under the Hobbs Act, 28 U.S.C. 2321 and 2342.


(2) Nothing in these rules shall prevent parties to arbitration from seeking judicial review of arbitration awards in a court of appropriate jurisdiction pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9-13, in lieu of seeking Board review.


(c) *Staying arbitration decision.* The timely filing of a petition for review of the arbitral decision by the Board will not automatically stay the effect of the arbitration decision. A stay may be requested under ยง 1115.3(f) of this chapter.


(d) *Enforcement.* Parties seeking to enforce an arbitration decision made pursuant to the Board's arbitration program must petition a court of appropriate jurisdiction under the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. 9-13.



---

[N] [78 FR 29079, May 17, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 69416, Oct. 6, 2016]




