# § 1.597-1   Definitions.

For purposes of the regulations under section 597—


(a) Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms *consolidated group, member* and *subsidiary* have the meanings provided in § 1.1502-1; and


(b) The following terms have the meanings provided below—


*Acquiring.* The term *Acquiring* means a corporation that is a transferee in a Taxable Transfer, other than a deemed transferee in a Taxable Transfer described in § 1.597-5(b).


*Agency.* The term *Agency* means the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any similar instrumentality of the United States government, and any predecessor or successor of the foregoing (including the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation).


*Agency Control.* An Institution or entity is under *Agency Control* if Agency is conservator or receiver of the Institution or entity, or if Agency has the right to appoint any of the Institution's or entity's directors.


*Agency Obligation.* The term *Agency Obligation* means a debt instrument that Agency issues to an Institution or to a direct or indirect owner of an Institution.




*Agency Receivership.* An Instit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ution or entity is under *Agency Receivership* if an Agency is acting as receiver for such Institution or entity.


*Average Reimbursement Rate.* The term *Average Reimbursement Rate* means the percentage of losses (as determined under the terms of the Loss Share Agreement) that would be reimbursed by an Agency or a Controlled Entity if every asset subject to a Loss Share Agreement were disposed of for the Third-Party Price. The Average Reimbursement Rate is determined at the time of the Taxable Transfer and is not adjusted for any changes in Third-Party Price over the life of any asset subject to the Loss Share Agreement or the prior disposition of any asset subject to the Loss Share Agreement.








*Bridge Bank.* The term *Bridge Bank* means an Institution that is organized by Agency to hold assets and liabilities of another Institution and that continues the operation of the other Institution's business pending its acquisition or liquidation, and that is any of the following—


(1) A national bank chartered by the Comptroller of the Currency under section 11(n) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(n)) or section 21A(b)(10)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(10)(A)) or any successor sections;


(2) A Federal savings association chartered by the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision under section 21A(b)(10)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(10)(A)) or any successor section; or


(3) A similar Institution chartered under any other statutory provisions.














*Consolidated Subsidiary.* The term *Consolidated Subsidiary* means a corporation that both:


(i) Is a member of the same consolidated group as an Institution; and


(ii) Would be a member of the affiliated group that would be determined under section 1504(a) if the Institution were the common parent thereof.


*Continuing Equity.* An Institution has *Continuing Equity* for any taxable year if, on the last day of the taxable year, the Institution is not a Bridge Bank, in Agency Receivership, or treated as a New Entity.








*Controlled Entity.* The term *Controlled Entity* means an entity under Agency Control.




*Covered Asset.* The term *Covered Asset* means an asset subject to a Loss Guarantee. The fair market value of a Covered Asset equals the asset's Expected Value.




*Expected Value.* The term *Expected Value* means the sum of the Third-Party Price for a Covered Asset and the amount that an Agency or a Controlled Entity would pay under the Loss Guarantee if the asset actually were sold for the Third-Party Price. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if an asset is subject to a Loss Share Agreement, the amount that an Agency or a Controlled Entity would pay under a Loss Guarantee with respect to the asset is determined by multiplying the amount of loss that would be realized under the terms of the Loss Share Agreement if the asset were disposed of at the Third-Party Price by the Average Reimbursement Rate.








*Federal Financial Assistance (FFA).* The term *Federal Financial Assistance* (FFA), as defined by section 597(c), means any money or property provided by Agency to an Institution or to a direct or indirect owner of stock in an Institution under section 406(f) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1729(f)), section 21A(b)(4) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(4)), section 11(f) or 13(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(f), 1823(c)), or under any similar provision of law. Any such money or property is FFA, regardless of whether the Institution or any of its affiliates issues Agency a note or other obligation, stock, warrants, or other rights to acquire stock in connection with Agency's provision of the money or property. FFA includes Net Worth Assistance, Loss Guarantee payments, yield maintenance payments, cost to carry or cost of funds reimbursement payments, expense reimbursement or indemnity payments, and interest (including original issue discount) on an Agency Obligation.


*Institution.* The term *Institution* means an entity that is, or immediately before being placed under Agency Control was, a bank or domestic building and loan association within the meaning of section 597 (including a Bridge Bank). Except as otherwise provided in the regulations under section 597, the term *Institution* includes a New Entity or Acquiring that is a bank or domestic building and loan association within the meaning of section 597.




*Loss Guarantee.* The term *Loss Guarantee* means an agreement pursuant to which an Agency or a Controlled Entity guarantees or agrees to pay an Institution a specified amount upon the disposition or charge-off (in whole or in part) of specific assets, an agreement pursuant to which an Institution has a right to put assets to an Agency or a Controlled Entity at a specified price, a Loss Share Agreement, or a similar arrangement.




*Loss Share Agreement.* The term *Loss Share Agreement* means an agreement pursuant to which an Agency or a Controlled Entity agrees to reimburse the guaranteed party a percentage of losses realized.








*Net Worth Assistance.* The term *Net Worth Assistance* means money or property (including an Agency Obligation to the extent it has a fixed principal amount) that Agency provides as an integral part of a Taxable Transfer, other than FFA that accrues after the date of the Taxable Transfer. For example, Net Worth Assistance does not include Loss Guarantee payments, yield maintenance payments, cost to carry or cost of funds reimbursement payments, or expense reimbursement or indemnity payments. An Agency Obligation is considered to have a fixed principal amount notwithstanding an agreement providing for its adjustment after issuance to reflect a more accurate determination of the condition of the Institution at the time of the acquisition.


*New Entity.* The term *New Entity* means the new corporation that is treated as purchasing all of the assets of an Old Entity in a Taxable Transfer described in § 1.597-5(b).


*Old Entity.* The term *Old Entity* means the Institution or Consolidated Subsidiary that is treated as selling all of its assets in a Taxable Transfer described in § 1.597-5(b).


*Residual Entity.* The term *Residual Entity* means the entity that remains after an Institution transfers deposit liabilities to a Bridge Bank.


*Taxable Transfer.* The term *Taxable Transfer* has the meaning provided in § 1.597-5(a)(1).




*Third-Party Price.* The term *Third-Party Price* means the amount that a third party would pay for an asset absent the existence of a Loss Guarantee.







---

[N] [T.D. 8641, 60 FR 66094, Dec. 21, 1995, as amended by T.D. 9825, 82 FR 48619, Oct. 19, 2017]






