# § 160.176-23   Marking.

(a) *General.* Each inflatable lifejacket must be marked with the information required by this section. Each marking must be waterproof, clear, and permanent. Except as provided elsewhere in this subpart, each marking must be readable from a distance of three feet.


(b) *Prominence.* Each marking required in paragraph (d) of this section, except vital care and use instructions, if any, must be less prominent and in smaller print than markings required in paragraph (c) of this section. Each optional marking must be significantly less prominent and smaller than required markings. The marking “ADULT” must be in at least 18 mm (
3/4 inch) high bold capital lettering. If a lifejacket is stored in a package, the package must also have the marking “ADULT” or this marking must be easily visible through the package.


(c) *Text.* Each inflatable lifejacket must be marked with the following text in the exact order shown:


(d) *Other Information.* Each lifejacket must also be marked with the following information below the text required by paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) U.S. Coast Guard Approval No. (*insert assigned approval number*).


(2) Manufacturer's or private labeler's name and address.


(3) Lot Number.


(4) Date, or year and calendar quarter, of manufacture.


(5) Necessary vital care or use instructions, if any, such as the following:


(i) Warning against dry cleaning.


(ii) Size and type of inflation medium cartridges required.


(iii) Specific donning instructions.


(e) *Approved applications.* The text to be inserted in paragraph (c) of this section as the approved use will be one or more of the following as identified by the Commandant on the approval certificate issued according to § 159.005-13(a)(2) of this chapter:


(1) The name of the vessel.


(2) The type of vessel.


(3) Specific purpose or limitation approved by the Coast Guard.



---

[N] [CGD 78-1746, 54 FR 50320, Dec. 5, 1989, as amended by CGD 78-174b, 56 FR 29442, June 27, 1991; USCG-2013-0263, 79 FR 56500, Sept. 22, 2014]




