# § 607.23   What special funding consideration does the Secretary provide?

(a) If funds are available to fund only one additional planning grant and each of the next fundable applications has received the same number of points under § 607.20 or 607.21, the Secretary awards additional points, as provided in the application package or in a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ to any of those applicants that— 


(1) Has an endowment fund of which the current market value, per full-time equivalent enrolled student, is less than the average current market value of the endowment funds, per full-time equivalent enrolled student, at similar type institutions; or


(2) Has expenditures for library materials per full-time equivalent enrolled student which is less than the average expenditure for library materials per full-time equivalent enrolled student at similar type institutions.


(b) If funds are available to fund only one additional development grant and each of the next fundable applications has received the same number of points under § 607.20 or 607.22, the Secretary awards additional points, as provided in the application package or in a notice published in the _Federal Register,_ to any of those applicants that— 


(1) Has an endowment fund of which the current market value, per full-time equivalent enrolled student, is less than the average current market value of the endowment funds, per full-time equivalent enrolled student, at comparable institutions that offer similar instruction;


(2) Has expenditures for library materials per full-time equivalent enrolled student which are less than the average expenditures for library materials per full-time equivalent enrolled student at comparable institutions that offer similar instruction; or


(3) Propose to carry out one or more of the following activities—


(i) Faculty development;


(ii) Funds and administrative management;


(iii) Development and improvement of academic programs;


(iv) Acquisition of equipment for use in strengthening management and academic programs;


(v) Joint use of facilities; and


(vi) Student services.


(c) As used in this section, an endowment fund does not include any fund established or supported under 34 CFR part 628.


(d) Each year, the Secretary provides prospective applicants with the average expenditure of endowment funds and library materials per full-time equivalent student.



---

[N] [52 FR 30529, Aug. 14, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 41925, Aug. 15, 1994; 60 FR 15447, Mar. 23, 1995; 64 FR 70155, Dec. 15, 1999; 70 FR 13374, Mar. 21, 2005]




