# § 60.111a   Definitions.

In addition to the terms and their definitions listed in the Act and subpart A of this part the following definitions apply in this subpart:


(a) *Storage vessel* means each tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of petroleum liquids, but does not include:


(1) Pressure vessels which are designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa (15 psig) without emissions to the atmosphere except under emergency conditions.


(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs, or


(3) Underground tanks if the total volume of petroleum liquids added to and taken from a tank annually does not exceed twice the volume of the tank. 


(b) *Petroleum liquids* means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery but does not mean Nos. 2 through 6 fuel oils as specified in ASTM D396-78, 89, 90, 92, 96, or 98, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, or diesel fuel oils Nos. 2-D and 4-D as specified in ASTM D975-78, 96, or 98a. (These three methods are incorporated by reference—see § 60.17.)


(c) *Petroleum refinery* means each facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking, extracting, or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives.


(d) *Petroleum* means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.


(e) *Condensate* means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas which condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.


(f) *True vapor pressure* means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by a petroleum liquid such as determined in accordance with methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks, Second Edition, February 1980 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


(g) *Reid vapor pressure* is the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and nonviscous petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17). 


(h) *Liquid-mounted seal* means a foam or liquid-filled primary seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the tank wall and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank.


(i) *Metallic shoe seal* includes but is not limited to a metal sheet held vertically against the tank wall by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.


(j) *Vapor-mounted seal* means a foam-filled primary seal mounted continuously around the circumference of the tank so there is an annular vapor space underneath the seal. The annular vapor space is bounded by the bottom of the primary seal, the tank wall, the liquid surface, and the floating roof.


(k) *Custody transfer* means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.



---

[N] [45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 3737, Jan. 27, 1983; 52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]




