# § 1177.3   Requirements for submission.

In order to be accepted for recordation, an original of any primary or secondary document must:


(a) Be in writing and executed by the parties to the document, and acknowledged or verified either in a form: 


(1) Authorized by the law of the state, territory, district or possession where executed for the acknowledgement or verification of deeds of land; or 


(2) Substantially as follows: 


(3) Substantially as follows: 


(b) Be accompanied by at least one fully executed and acknowledged or verified counterpart, or if no counterpart has been executed and acknowledged by the parties, one certified true copy. A certified true copy of an original document is a complete and identical copy in all respects to the original attached with: 


(1) A certificate executed by a notary public, stating that he or she has compared the copy with the original and has found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original document; or 


(2) A certification of the filer stating that he or she has compared the copy with the original and found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original document and that he or she declares under penalty of perjury (“under the laws of the United States of America” if executed outside the United States) that the foregoing is true and correct; or 


(3) There may be attached to the copy, affidavits, wherein the affidavit states that he or she has compared the copy with the original document and found the copy to be complete and identical in all respects to the original documents. 


(c) Be accompanied by the fee set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2(f)(83). However, assignments which are executed prior to the filing of the primary document and which are submitted concurrently will be treated along with the primary document as one for fee purposes and will be assessed only one fee. A lease and agreement (Philadelphia Plan) shall be similarly treated. 


(d) Be accompanied by a letter of transmittal requesting the recording of the document. For a sample of a letter, see § 1177.4. Documents submitted concurrently under the same recordation number may be included in a single transmittal letter. Otherwise, each document must have its own letter of transmittal. The letter should be addressed to the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings and include the following information:


(1) *Type of Agreement.* (equipment trust, mortgage, assignment, etc.).


(2) *Whether document is a primary document or a secondary document* (see § 1177.1). If the document is a secondary document, it must contain the recordation number of the primary document to which it is connected, unless it is being filed concurrently with a primary document to which a recordation number has not yet been assigned.


(3) *A request for cross-indexing.* If the document is an assignment, parties may request the listing of the assignment in the index under the name(s) of parties with continuing interest not involved in this particular assignment.


(4) *A description of the equipment covered in the document*—(i) *For railway equipment*—The type of equipment; whether locomotives, cars, or other rolling stock; with any A.A.R. mechanical designation; the number of each type; any identifying marks such as the name or initials of the lessee, mortgagee, or vendee, and the road or serial number, or if more than one for each type of equipment, the first and last inclusive numbers.


(ii) *For water carrier equipment*—Whether tow boats, barges or other vessels; type of equipment; description as contained in the United States Coast Guard certificate of enrollment; number of each type of equipment; and any identifying marks such as the name or initial of the lessee, mortgagee, or vendee.


(5) Parties to the agreement, as follows:


(i) Conditional sale-vendor, purchaser, guarantor.


(ii) Mortgage—mortgagor, mortgagee, guarantor.


(iii) Equipment Trust—vendor, trustee, lessor, lessee, guarantor of lease.


(iv) Lease—lessee, lessor, guarantor.


(v) Bailment—bailor, bailee, guarantor.


(vi) Other transactions—principal debtor, trustee, guarantor, and other parties.


(6) Parties to whom original document should be returned.


(7) The amount of the enclosed fee.


(8) A short summary (1 or 2 sentences) of the type of document and a very brief description of the equipment and identifying numbers. This summary will be entered into the index as an aid to researching the encumbrances to title. (For a sample of a summary, see § 1177.4).


(9) The letter must be signed by an executive officer of one of the parties having knowledge of the matters described in the letter, or their attorney or representative in fact.



---

[N] [46 FR 54946, Nov. 5, 1981. Redesignated at 47 FR 49592, Nov. 1, 1982 and amended at 52 FR 46484, Dec. 8, 1987; 56 FR 10520, Mar. 13, 1991; 56 FR 12423, Mar. 25, 1991; 64 FR 53268, Oct. 1, 1999; 74 FR 52910, Oct. 15, 2009]




