# § 614.4010   Agricultural credit banks.

(a) *Long-term real estate lending.* Except to the extent such authorities are transferred pursuant to section 7.6 of the Act, agricultural credit banks are authorized, subject to the requirements of § 614.4200, to make real estate mortgage loans with maturities of not less than 5 years nor more than 40 years and continuing commitments to make such loans.


(b) *Extensions of credit to Farm Credit direct lender associations.* Agricultural credit banks are authorized to make loans and extend other similar financial assistance to associations with direct lending authority and discount for or purchase from such associations, with the association's endorsement or guaranty, any note, draft, and other obligations for loans made by the association in accordance with the provisions of this part. Such extensions of credit shall be made pursuant to a written financing agreement meeting the requirements of § 614.4125.


(c) *Extensions of credit to other financing institutions.* Agricultural credit banks are authorized to make loans and extend other similar financial assistance to any national bank, State bank, trust company, agricultural credit corporation, incorporated livestock loan company, savings institution, credit union, or any association of agricultural producers or corporation engaged in the making of loans to farmers, ranchers, or producers or harvesters of aquatic products (collectively, “other financing institutions”), for purposes eligible for financing by a production credit association, in accordance with § 614.4130 and subpart P of this part. Agricultural credit banks are authorized to discount for or purchase from such other financing institutions, with the institution's endorsement or guaranty, notes, drafts, and other obligations or loans made to persons and for purposes eligible for financing by a production credit association, in accordance with the requirements of § 614.4130 and subpart P of this part.


(d) *Extensions of credit to or on behalf of eligible cooperatives.* Agricultural credit banks are authorized to make loans and commitments and extend other technical and financial assistance, including but not limited to, collateral custody, discounting notes and other obligations, guarantees, and currency exchanges necessary to service transactions financed under paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section, to:


(1) Eligible cooperatives, as defined in § 613.3100(b)(1), in accordance with §§ 614.4200, 614.4231, 614.4232, 614.4233, and subpart Q of part 614;


(2) Other eligible entities, as defined in § 613.3100(b)(2), in accordance with §§ 614.4200, 614.4231, and 614.4232; 


(3) Domestic lessors, for the purpose of providing leased assets to stockholders of the bank eligible to borrow under section 3.7(a) of the Act for use in such stockholders' operations in the United States, in accordance with § 614.4232;


(4) Domestic or foreign parties with respect to a transaction with a voting stockholder of the bank, for the import of agricultural commodities, farm supplies, or aquatic products through purchases, sales or exchanges, provided such stockholder substantially benefits as a result of such extension of credit or assistance, in accordance with policies of the bank's board, § 614.4233, and subpart Q of part 614; and


(5) Domestic or foreign parties in which a voting stockholder of the bank has a minimum ownership interest, for the purpose of facilitating such stockholder's import operations of the type described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, provided the stockholder substantially benefits as a result of such extension of credit or assistance, in accordance with policies of the bank's board, § 614.4233, and subpart Q of part 614.


(6) Any party, subject to the requirements in § 613.3200(c) of this chapter, for the export (including the cost of freight) of agricultural commodities or products therefrom, aquatic products, or farm supplies from the United States to any foreign country, in accordance with § 614.4233 and subpart Q of this part 614; and 


(7) Domestic or foreign parties in which eligible cooperatives, as defined in § 613.3100 of this chapter, hold an ownership interest, for the purpose of facilitating the international business operations of such cooperatives pursuant to the requirements of § 613.3200 (d) and (e) of this chapter.


(e) *Loan participations.* Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, an agricultural credit bank may enter into loan participation agreements with:


(1) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders and lenders that are not Farm Credit institutions on loans of the type it is authorized to make under the Act;


(2) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders on loans it is not authorized to make, provided the borrower eligibility, membership, term, amount, loan security, and stock or participation certificate requirements of the originating institution are met; and


(3) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation to the extent provided in § 614.4055.


(f) *Other interest in loans.* (1) Subject to subpart H of this part, agricultural credit banks may sell interests in real estate mortgage loans identified in paragraph (a) of this section to Farm Credit System institutions authorized to purchase such interests, other lenders, and certified agricultural mortgage marketing facilities for the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. Agricultural credit banks may also sell interests in the types of loans listed in paragraph (d) of this section to other Farm Credit System institutions that are authorized to purchase such interests.


(2) Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, agricultural credit banks may purchase interests other than participation interests in loans and nonvoting stock from other Farm Credit System institutions.


(3) Agricultural credit banks, in their capacity as certified agricultural mortgage marketing facilities under title VIII of the Act, may purchase interests in loans (other than participation interests authorized in paragraph (e) of this section) from institutions other than Farm Credit System institutions only for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.


(g) *Residual powers after the transfer of lending authority to an association.* After transferring its authority to make and participate in long-term real estate loans to an agricultural credit association or a Federal land credit association pursuant to section 7.6(a) of the Act and subpart E of part 611 of these regulations, an agricultural credit bank retains residual authority to:


(1) Enter into loan participation agreements pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section;


(2) Purchase or sell other interests in loans in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section; and


(3) Make long-term real estate loans in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section in areas of its chartered territory where no active association operates.



---

[N] [55 FR 24880, June 19, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 38246, Aug. 24, 1992; 57 FR 43290, Sept. 18, 1992; 62 FR 4445, Jan. 30, 1997; 62 FR 51013, Sept. 30, 1997; 63 FR 5723, Feb. 4, 1998; 64 FR 43049, Aug. 9, 1999; 65 FR 24102, Apr. 25, 2000; 67 FR 1285, Jan. 10, 2002; 71 FR 65387, Nov. 8, 2006]




