# ยง 57.205   Health professions student loan funds.

(a) *Funds established with Federal capital contributions.* Any fund established by a school with Federal capital contributions will be accounted for separately from other funds, providing a clear audit trail for all transactions. At all times the fund must contain monies representing the institutional capital contribution. The school must at all times maintain all monies relating to the fund in one or more interest-bearing accounts or investment instruments which meet OMB requirements established for Federal monies held by third parties. The school must place all earnings into the fund but may first deduct from total earnings any reasonable and customary charges incurred through the use of an interest-bearing account. An institution shall exercise the level of care required of a fiduciary with regard to these deposits and investments, and shall be responsible for reimbursing the fund for any losses that occur due to the use of investments that are not federally insured.


(1) The Federal capital contribution fund is to be used by the school only for:


(i) Health professions student loans to full-time students;


(ii) Capital distribution as provided in section 728 of the Act or as agreed to by the school and the Secretary; and


(iii) Costs of litigation, costs associated with membership in credit bureaus, and to the extent specifically approved by the Secretary, other collection costs that exceed the usual expenses incurred in the collection of health professions student loans.


(2) A school must review the balance in the fund on at least a semi-annual basis to determine whether the fund balance compared with projected levels of expenditures and collections exceeds its needs. A school in closing status must review the balance in the fund on a quarterly basis. Monies identified as in excess of the school's needs must be reported, and the Federal share returned to the Federal Government, by the due date of the required report which identifies the excess monies. The school's determination is subject to the review and approval of the Secretary.


(b) *Funds established with Federal capital loans.* (1) Each Federal capital loan is subject to the terms of the promissory note executed by an authorized official on behalf of the borrowing school.


(2) The Federal capital loans must be carried in a special account of the school, to be used by the school only for (i) repayments of principal and interest on Federal capital loans; and (ii) costs of litigation; costs associated with membership in credit bureaus; and, to the extent specifically approved by the Secretary, other collection costs that exceed the usual expenses incurred in the collection of health professions student loans. 


(c) Failure to comply with the requirements of this section will subject a school to the noncompliance provisions of ยง 57.218 and the Department's Claims Collections regulations (45 CFR part 30), as appropriate.



---

[N] [44 FR 29055, May 18, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 25069, June 3, 1983; 56 FR 40725, Aug. 15, 1991; 61 FR 6123, Feb. 16, 1996]




