# § 213.4   Content of disclosures.

For any consumer lease subject to this part, the lessor shall disclose the following information, as applicable:


(a) *Description of property.* A brief description of the leased property sufficient to identify the property to the lessee and lessor.


(b) *Amount due at lease signing or delivery.* The total amount to be paid prior to or at consummation or by delivery, if delivery occurs after consummation, using the term “amount due at lease signing or delivery.” The lessor shall itemize each component by type and amount, including any refundable security deposit, advance monthly or other periodic payment, and capitalized cost reduction; and in motor-vehicle leases, shall itemize how the amount due will be paid, by type and amount, including any net trade-in allowance, rebates, noncash credits, and cash payments in a format substantially similar to the model forms in appendix A of this part. 


(c) *Payment schedule and total amount of periodic payments.* The number, amount, and due dates or periods of payments scheduled under the lease, and the total amount of the periodic payments. 


(d) *Other charges.* The total amount of other charges payable to the lessor, itemized by type and amount, that are not included in the periodic payments. Such charges include the amount of any liability the lease imposes upon the lessee at the end of the lease term; the potential difference between the residual and realized values referred to in paragraph (k) of this section is excluded.


(e) *Total of payments.* The total of payments, with a description such as “the amount you will have paid by the end of the lease.” This amount is the sum of the amount due at lease signing (less any refundable amounts), the total amount of periodic payments (less any portion of the periodic payment paid at lease signing), and other charges under paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. In an open-end lease, a description such as “you will owe an additional amount if the actual value of the vehicle is less than the residual value” shall accompany the disclosure.


(f) *Payment calculation.* In a motor-vehicle lease, a mathematical progression of how the scheduled periodic payment is derived, in a format substantially similar to the applicable model form in appendix A of this part, which shall contain the following:


(1) *Gross capitalized cost.* The gross capitalized cost, including a disclosure of the agreed upon value of the vehicle, a description such as “the agreed upon value of the vehicle [state the amount] and any items you pay for over the lease term (such as service contracts, insurance, and any outstanding prior credit or lease balance),” and a statement of the lessee's option to receive a separate written itemization of the gross capitalized cost. If requested by the lessee, the itemization shall be provided before consummation. 


(2) *Capitalized cost reduction.* The capitalized cost reduction, with a description such as “the amount of any net trade-in allowance, rebate, noncash credit, or cash you pay that reduces the gross capitalized cost.”


(3) *Adjusted capitalized cost.* The adjusted capitalized cost, with a description such as “the amount used in calculating your base [periodic] payment.”


(4) *Residual value.* The residual value, with a description such as “the value of the vehicle at the end of the lease used in calculating your base [periodic] payment.”


(5) *Depreciation and any amortized amounts.* The depreciation and any amortized amounts, which is the difference between the adjusted capitalized cost and the residual value, with a description such as “the amount charged for the vehicle's decline in value through normal use and for any other items paid over the lease term.”


(6) *Rent charge.* The rent charge, with a description such as “the amount charged in addition to the depreciation and any amortized amounts.” This amount is the difference between the total of the base periodic payments over the lease term minus the depreciation and any amortized amounts.


(7) *Total of base periodic payments.* The total of base periodic payments with a description such as “depreciation and any amortized amounts plus the rent charge.”


(8) *Lease payments.* The lease payments with a description such as “the number of payments in your lease.”


(9) *Base periodic payment.* The total of the base periodic payments divided by the number of payment periods in the lease.


(10) *Itemization of other charges.* An itemization of any other charges that are part of the periodic payment.


(11) *Total periodic payment.* The sum of the base periodic payment and any other charges that are part of the periodic payment.


(g) *Early termination*—(1) *Conditions and disclosure of charges.* A statement of the conditions under which the lessee or lessor may terminate the lease prior to the end of the lease term; and the amount or a description of the method for determining the amount of any penalty or other charge for early termination, which must be reasonable.


(2) *Early-termination notice.* In a motor-vehicle lease, a notice substantially similar to the following: “Early Termination. You may have to pay a substantial charge if you end this lease early. *The charge may be up to several thousand dollars.* The actual charge will depend on when the lease is terminated. The earlier you end the lease, the greater this charge is likely to be.”


(h) *Maintenance responsibilities.* The following provisions are required:


(1) *Statement of responsibilities.* A statement specifying whether the lessor or the lessee is responsible for maintaining or servicing the leased property, together with a brief description of the responsibility;


(2) *Wear and use standard.* A statement of the lessor's standards for wear and use (if any), which must be reasonable; and


(3) *Notice of wear and use standard.* In a motor-vehicle lease, a notice regarding wear and use substantially similar to the following: “Excessive Wear and Use. You may be charged for excessive wear based on our standards for normal use.” The notice shall also specify the amount or method for determining any charge for excess mileage. 


(i) *Purchase option.* A statement of whether or not the lessee has the option to purchase the leased property, and: 


(1) *End of lease term.* If at the end of the lease term, the purchase price; and 


(2) *During lease term.* If prior to the end of the lease term, the purchase price or the method for determining the price and when the lessee may exercise this option. 


(j) *Statement referencing nonsegregated disclosures.* A statement that the lessee should refer to the lease documents for additional information on early termination, purchase options and maintenance responsibilities, warranties, late and default charges, insurance, and any security interests, if applicable. 


(k) *Liability between residual and realized values.* A statement of the lessee's liability, if any, at early termination or at the end of the lease term for the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value. 


(l) *Right of appraisal.* If the lessee's liability at early termination or at the end of the lease term is based on the realized value of the leased property, a statement that the lessee may obtain, at the lessee's expense, a professional appraisal by an independent third party (agreed to by the lessee and the lessor) of the value that could be realized at sale of the leased property. The appraisal shall be final and binding on the parties. 


(m) *Liability at end of lease term based on residual value.* If the lessee is liable at the end of the lease term for the difference between the residual value of the leased property and its realized value: 


(1) *Rent and other charges.* The rent and other charges, paid by the lessee and required by the lessor as an incident to the lease transaction, with a description such as “the total amount of rent and other charges imposed in connection with your lease [state the amount].” 


(2) *Excess liability.* A statement about a rebuttable presumption that, at the end of the lease term, the residual value of the leased property is unreasonable and not in good faith to the extent that the residual value exceeds the realized value by more than three times the base monthly payment (or more than three times the average payment allocable to a monthly period, if the lease calls for periodic payments other than monthly); and that the lessor cannot collect the excess amount unless the lessor brings a successful court action and pays the lessee's reasonable attorney's fees, or unless the excess of the residual value over the realized value is due to unreasonable or excessive wear or use of the leased property (in which case the rebuttable presumption does not apply). 


(3) *Mutually agreeable final adjustment.* A statement that the lessee and lessor are permitted, after termination of the lease, to make any mutually agreeable final adjustment regarding excess liability. 


(n) *Fees and taxes.* The total dollar amount for all official and license fees, registration, title, or taxes required to be paid in connection with the lease. 


(o) *Insurance.* A brief identification of insurance in connection with the lease including: 


(1) *Through the lessor.* If the insurance is provided by or paid through the lessor, the types and amounts of coverage and the cost to the lessee; or 


(2) *Through a third party.* If the lessee must obtain the insurance, the types and amounts of coverage required of the lessee. 


(p) *Warranties or guarantees.* A statement identifying all express warranties and guarantees from the manufacturer or lessor with respect to the leased property that apply to the lessee. 


(q) *Penalties and other charges for delinquency.* The amount or the method of determining the amount of any penalty or other charge for delinquency, default, or late payments, which must be reasonable. 


(r) *Security interest.* A description of any security interest, other than a security deposit disclosed under paragraph (b) of this section, held or to be retained by the lessor; and a clear identification of the property to which the security interest relates. 


(s) *Limitations on rate information.* If a lessor provides a percentage rate in an advertisement or in documents evidencing the lease transaction, a notice stating that “this percentage may not measure the overall cost of financing this lease” shall accompany the rate disclosure. The lessor shall not use the term “annual percentage rate,” “annual lease rate,” or any equivalent term. 


(t) *Non-motor vehicle open-end leases.* Non-motor vehicle open-end leases remain subject to section 182(10) of the act regarding end of term liability. 



---

[N] [Reg. M, 61 FR 52258, Oct. 7, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 15367, Apr. 1, 1997; 63 FR 52109, Sept. 29, 1998]




