# 401.301   Policy.

(a) The SPE, subject to the authorities in AGAR 401.103 and FAR 1.301, may issue and publish Departmental regulations, that together with the FAR constitute Department-wide policies, procedures, solicitation provisions, and contract clauses governing the contracting process or otherwise controlling the relationship between USDA (including any of its contracting activities) and contractors or prospective contractors.


(b) Each designated Mission Area senior contracting official is authorized to issue or authorize the issuance of, at any organizational level, internal guidance which does not have a significant effect beyond the internal operating procedures of the activity, or a significant cost or administrative impact on offerors or contractors. Internal guidance issued by contracting activities will not be published in the _Federal Register._ Mission Area contracting leadership shall ensure that the guidance, procedures, or instructions issued—


(1) Are consistent with the policies and procedures contained in this regulation and the USDA Contracting Desk Book;


(2) Follow the format, arrangement, and numbering system of this regulation to the extent practicable;


(3) Contain no material which duplicates, paraphrases, or is inconsistent with this regulation; and


(4) Are numbered and identified by use of alphabetical suffices to the chapter number as follows:


(i) Marketing and Regulatory Programs (MRP).


(ii) Research, Education and Economics (REE).


(iii) Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services (FNCS).


(iv) Natural Resources and Environment (NRE).


(v) Farm Production and Conservation (FPAC).


(vi) Food Safety and Inspection Services (FSIS).


(vii) [Reserved]


(viii) Departmental Administration (DA) or Departmental Management (DM).


(ix) [Reserved]


(x) Rural Development (RD).






