# § 63.11965   What are my general compliance requirements for wastewater?

(a) The concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in each process wastewater stream containing greater than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, measured immediately as it leaves a piece of process equipment and before being mixed with any other process wastewater stream, must be reduced to the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. The applicable limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart must be met before the process wastewater stream is mixed with any other process wastewater stream containing vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations less than the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.


(b) *Initial determination of process wastewater streams that need to be treated.* You must determine which process wastewater streams require treatment as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section and meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.


(1) You must collect process wastewater samples as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) For treated process wastewater streams, you must collect process wastewater samples at the outlet of the treatment process and before the process wastewater stream is mixed with any other process wastewater stream containing vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations less than the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.


(ii) For untreated process wastewater streams, you must collect process wastewater samples at the location immediately as the stream leaves a piece of process equipment, before being mixed with any other process stream or process wastewater stream, before being exposed to the atmosphere, and before being discharged from the affected source.


(2) You must measure the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.11980.


(c) *Requirements for process wastewater streams that must be treated.* Each process wastewater stream that has a vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration equal to or greater than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, determined pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must be treated to reduce the concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP to below the applicable limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must route wastewater streams through hard-piping to the treatment process and route the vent stream from the treatment process to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950. You must also meet the initial and continuous compliance requirements specified in § 63.11970(a) and § 63.11975.


(d) *Requirements for process wastewater streams that do not need to be treated.* For each process wastewater stream that has a vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration less than the limits specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, determined pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the initial and continuous compliance requirements specified in §§ 63.11970(b) and 63.11975(c).


(e) *Maintenance wastewater.* You must comply with the requirements specified in § 63.105 of subpart F of this part.


(f) *Determination of total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP.* You must develop a facility-specific list of HAP that are expected to be present in each process wastewater stream at your PVCPU. This list must be continuously updated and must be available for inspection by the Administrator. This list must include the identification of each HAP expected to be present in each process wastewater stream, and the CAS number for each HAP.


(1) For the purposes of demonstrating initial and continuous compliance as required in §§ 63.11970 and 63.11975 of this subpart, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must analyze each process wastewater sample for all HAP listed in Table 10 to this subpart using the test methods specified in § 63.11980(a)(2) and (3).


(ii) You must also analyze each process wastewater sample for any HAP that are not listed in Table 10 to this subpart but are expected to be present in that sample based on your facility-specific list of HAP using the appropriate test method specified in § 63.11980(a)(2).


(2) [Reserved]




