# § 37.135   Submission of paratransit plan.

(a) *General.* Each public entity operating fixed route transportation service, which is required by § 37.121 to provide complementary paratransit service, shall develop a paratransit plan.


(b) *Initial submission.* Except as provided in § 37.141 of this part, each entity shall submit its initial plan for compliance with the complementary paratransit service provision by January 26, 1992, to the appropriate location identified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(c) *Annual Updates.* Except as provided in this paragraph, each entity shall submit an annual update to its plan on January 26 of each succeeding year.


(1) If an entity has met and is continuing to meet all requirements for complementary paratransit in §§ 37.121-37.133 of this part, the entity may submit to FTA an annual certification of continued compliance in lieu of a plan update. Entities that have submitted a joint plan under § 37.141 may submit a joint certification under this paragraph. The requirements of §§ 37.137 (a) and (b), 37.138 and 37.139 do not apply when a certification is submitted under this paragraph.


(2) In the event of any change in circumstances that results in an entity which has submitted a certification of continued compliance falling short of compliance with §§ 37.121-37.133, the entity shall immediately notify FTA in writing of the problem. In this case, the entity shall also file a plan update meeting the requirements of §§ 37.137-37.139 of this part on the next following January 26 and in each succeeding year until the entity returns to full compliance.


(3) An entity that has demonstrated undue financial burden to the FTA shall file a plan update meeting the requirements of §§ 37.137-37.139 of this part on each January 26 until full compliance with §§ 37.121-37.133 is attained.


(4) If FTA reasonably believes that an entity may not be fully complying with all service criteria, FTA may require the entity to provide an annual update to its plan.


(d) *Phase-in of implementation.* Each plan shall provide full compliance by no later than January 26, 1997, unless the entity has received a waiver based on undue financial burden. If the date for full compliance specified in the plan is after January 26, 1993, the plan shall include milestones, providing for measured, proportional progress toward full compliance.


(e) *Plan implementation.* Each entity shall begin implementation of its plan on January 26, 1992.


(f) *Submission locations.* An entity shall submit its plan to one of the following offices, as appropriate:


(1) The individual state administering agency, if it is—


(i) A recipient of funding under 49 U.S.C. 5311;


(ii) A small urbanized area recipient of funding under 49 U.S.C. 5307 administered by the State;


(iii) A participant in a coordinated plan, in which all of the participating entities are eligible to submit their plans to the State; or


(2) The FTA Regional Office (as listed in appendix B to this part) for all other entities required to submit a paratransit plan. This includes an FTA recipient under 49 U.S.C. 5307; entities submitting a joint plan (unless they meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section), and a public entity not an FTA recipient.



---

[N] [56 FR 45621, Sept. 6, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 25416, May 21, 1996; 61 FR 26468, May 28, 1996; 79 FR 21406, Apr. 16, 2014]




