# § 1.6081-11   Automatic extension of time for filing certain employee plan returns.

(a) *In general.* An administrator or sponsor of an employee benefit plan required to file a return under the provisions of chapter 61 or the regulations under that chapter on Form 5500 (series), “Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit Plan,” will be allowed an automatic extension of time to file the return until the 15th day of the third month following the date prescribed for filing the return if the administrator or sponsor files an application under this section in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Requirements.* To satisfy this paragraph (b), an administrator or sponsor must—


(1) Submit a complete application on Form 5558, “Application for Extension of Time To File Certain Employee Plan Returns,” or in any other manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner; and


(2) File the application with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions on or before the date prescribed for filing the information return.


(c) *Termination of automatic extension.* The Commissioner may terminate an automatic extension at any time by mailing to the administrator or sponsor a notice of termination at least 10 days prior to the termination date designated in such notice. The Commissioner must mail the notice of termination to the address shown on the Form 5558 or to the administrator or sponsor's last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter.


(d) *Penalties.* See sections 6652, 6692, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 for penalties for failure to file a timely and complete Form 5500.


(e) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section is applicable for applications for an automatic extension of time to file Forms 5500 for plan years ending after July 1, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9407, 73 FR 37368, July 1, 2008]




