# ยง 26.40   Motions.

(a) *General.* All motions shall state the specific relief requested and the basis therefore and, except during a conference or the hearing, shall be in writing. Written motions shall be filed and served in accordance with ยง 26.30. Either party may submit a proposed order with any motion.


(b) *Response to motions.* Unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ, a response to a written motion may be filed within 10 days after service of the motion. A party failing to respond timely to a motion may be deemed to have waived any objection to the granting of the motion.


(c) *Motions for extensions.* Either party may file a motion for extension. At the discretion of the ALJ, a motion for an extension of time may be granted for good cause at any time, notwithstanding an objection or any reply to the motion, consistent with ยง 26.32(f). The ALJ may waive the requirements of this section as to motions for extensions of time or any page limits.


(d) *Right to reply.* The moving party shall have no right to reply, except as permitted by the ALJ.


(e) *Oral Argument.* Either party may request oral argument on any motion, but such argument shall be available at the sole discretion of the ALJ.


(f) *Motions for summary judgment.* (1) A party claiming relief or a party against whom relief is sought may timely move, with or without supporting affidavits, for summary judgment on all or part of the claim.


(2) Objections in the consideration of summary judgment motions or answers thereto based upon a failure to strictly comply with the provisions of Rule 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure may, at the discretion of the ALJ, be overruled.


(g) *Motions for dismissal.* When a motion to dismiss the proceeding is granted, the ALJ shall make and file a determination and order in accordance with the provisions of ยง 26.50.




