# ยง 2608.103   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part: 


*Demand* means a subpoena, or an order or other command of a court or other competent authority, for the production, disclosure, or release of records or for the appearance and testimony of an OGE employee that is issued in a legal proceeding. 


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of OGE or a person to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority under this part. 


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation. 


*OGE* means the U.S. Office of Government Ethics. 


*OGE employee or employee* means: 


(1)(i) Any current or former officer or employee of OGE; 


(ii) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of OGE or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for OGE; and 


(iii) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to OGE, whether formal or informal. 


(2) Provided, that this definition does not include persons who are no longer employed by OGE and who are retained or hired as expert witnesses or who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with OGE. 


*Records or official records and information* mean: 


(1) All documents and materials which are OGE agency records under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552; 


(2) All other documents and materials contained in OGE files; and 


(3) All other information or materials acquired by an OGE employee in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status. 


*Request* means any informal request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony which has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority. 


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding. 




