# § 1951.11   Application of payments on real estate accounts.

(a) *Regular payments.* If a borrower owes more than one type of real estate loan, or has received initial and subsequent real estate loans on which separate accounts are maintained, payments on such accounts should be applied so as to maintain the note accounts approximately in balance at the end of the year with respect to installments due on the notes, other charges, and delinquencies.


(b) *Refunds and extra payments.* (1) Refunds will be applied to the note representing the loan from which the advance was made.


(2) Extra payments will be applied to the note secured by the earliest mortgage on the property from which the extra payment was obtained.


(3) Funds remaining from an RH grant or a combination loan and grant, after completion of development, will be refunded. If the borrower received a combination loan and grant, the remaining funds up to the amount of the grant are considered to be grant funds.


(c) *County Office actions.* (1) The collecting official will complete Form RD 451-1, “Acknowledgment of Cash Payment,” in accordance with the FMI when cash or money orders are received as a payment.


(2) The collection official will complete Form RD, “Schedule of Remittances,” in accordance with the FMI.


(d) *Finance Office handling.* (1) Regular payment will be handled as follows.


(i) Payments will be applied first to satisfy any administrative costs such as a charge for an uncollectible check. (The amounts of any such charges are available from any Rural Development office.)


(ii) Amounts paid on direct loan accounts will be credited to the borrower's account as of the date of Form RD 451-2 or for direct payments the date payment is received in the Finance Office, and will be applied first to a portion of any interest which accrues during the deferral period, second to interest accrued to the date received and third to principal, in accordance with the terms of the note.


(iii) Amounts paid on insured loan accounts will be credited to the borrower's account as of the date of Form RD 451-2 or for direct payments the date payment is received in the Finance Office, and will be applied in the following order:


(A) Advances from the insurance funds as shown on the latest *Form RD 389-404,* “Analysis of Accounts Maturing.” (If the collection is intended for final payment of the loan, or to pay the insurance account in connection with an assumption agreement, the collection will be applied first to the interest accrued on the advance to the date of the payment.)


(B) Principal advanced from the insurance fund.


(C) Unamortized costs.


(D) Amount due for amortized costs for taxes and insurance.


(E) Unpaid loan insurance charges, including the current year's charge, when applicable.


(F) First to a portion of any interest which accrues during the deferral period, second to accrued interest to the date of the payment on the note account and then to the principal balance of the note account in accordance with the terms of the note.


(2) Extra payments and refunds will be credited to the borrower's note account as of the date of Form RD 451-2 and will be applied first to a portion of any interest which accrues during the deferral period, second to interest accrued to the date of the receipt and third to principal in accordance with the terms of the note. The amount to be applied to principal will be applied to the final unpaid installment(s). Extra payments and refunds will not affect the schedule status of a borrower except indirectly in connection with the amortization of a direct loan.


(3) The Finance Office will remit final payments promptly to lenders. Other collections (regular, extra, and refunds) applied to a borrower's insured note will be accumulated until the annual installment due date, and will be remitted along with any advances from the insurance fund to the lender within 30 days after the installment due date. All payments to a lender will be credited first to interest to the date of the Treasury check and then to principal. Since the application of a payment to a borrower's account with the Government and the Government's account with a lender is of a different effective date, the balance owed by a borrower to the government and by the Government to a lender ordinarily will not be the same.



---

[N] [50 FR 45764, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 46845, Nov. 8, 1989]




