# ยง 298.19   Financing Eligible Export Vessels.

(a) *Notification to Secretary of Defense.* (1) We will provide prompt notice of our receipt of an application for a loan Guarantee for an Eligible Export Vessel to the Secretary of Defense. 


(2) During the 30-day period, beginning on the date on which the Secretary of Defense receives such notice, the Secretary of Defense may disapprove the loan guarantee if the Secretary of Defense makes an assessment that the Vessel's potential use may cause harm to United States national security interests. 


(3) The Secretary of Defense may not disapprove a loan Guarantee under this section solely on the basis of the type of vessel to be constructed with the loan Guarantee. The authority of the Secretary of Defense to disapprove a loan Guarantee under this section may not be delegated to any official other than a civilian officer of the Department of Defense appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. We will not approve a loan guarantee disapproved by the Secretary of Defense. 


(b) *Vessel eligibility.* We may not approve a Guarantee for an Eligible Export Vessel unless: 


(1) We find that the construction, reconstruction, or reconditioning of the Vessel will aid in the transition of United States shipyards to commercial activities or will preserve shipbuilding assets that would be essential in time of war or national emergency; 


(2) The owner of the Vessel agrees with us that the Vessel shall not be transferred to any country designated by the Secretary of Defense as a country whose interests are hostile to the interests of the United States; and


(3) We determine that the countries in which the shipowner, its charterers, guarantors, or other financial interests supporting the transaction, if any, have their chief executive offices or have located a substantial portion of their assets, present an acceptable financial or legal risk to our collateral interests. Our determination will be based on confidential risk assessments provided by the Inter-Agency Country Risk Assessment System and will take into account any other factors related to the loan guarantee transaction that we deem pertinent. 




