# § 1041.12   Compliance program and record retention.

(a) *Compliance program.* A lender making a covered loan must develop and follow written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the requirements in this part. These written policies and procedures must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the lender and its affiliates, and the nature and scope of the covered loan lending activities of the lender and its affiliates.


(b) *Record retention.* A lender must retain evidence of compliance with this part for 36 months after the date on which a covered loan ceases to be an outstanding loan.


(1) *Retention of loan agreement for covered loans.* To comply with the requirements in this paragraph (b), a lender must retain or be able to reproduce an image of the loan agreement for each covered loan that the lender originates.


(2)-(3) [Reserved] 


(4) *Retention of records relating to payment practices for covered loans.* To comply with the requirements in this paragraph (b), a lender must retain or be able to reproduce an image of the following documentation, as applicable, in connection with a covered loan:


(i) Leveraged payment mechanism(s) obtained by the lender from the consumer;


(ii) Authorization of additional payment transfer, as described in § 1041.8(c)(3)(iii); and


(iii) Underlying one-time electronic transfer authorization or underlying signature check, as described in § 1041.8(d)(2).


(5) *Electronic records in tabular format regarding payment practices for covered loans.* To comply with the requirements in this paragraph (b), a lender must retain electronic records in tabular format that include the following information for covered loans:


(i) History of payments received and attempted payment transfers, as defined in § 1041.8(a)(1), including:


(A) Date of receipt of payment or attempted payment transfer;


(B) Amount of payment due;


(C) Amount of attempted payment transfer;


(D) Amount of payment received or transferred; and


(E) Payment channel used for attempted payment transfer.


(ii) If an attempt to transfer funds from a consumer's account is subject to the prohibition in § 1041.8(b)(1), whether the lender or service provider obtained authorization to initiate a payment transfer from the consumer in accordance with the requirements in § 1041.8(c) or (d).



---

[N] [82 FR 54871, Nov. 17, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 44444, July 22, 2020]




