# § 301.6224(b)-1   Partner may waive rights.

(a) *In general.* A partner may at any time waive any right that the partner has or any restriction on action by the Internal Revenue Service under subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code. 


(b) *Form and manner of making waiver.* The waiver described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made by a written statement. If the Internal Revenue Service furnishes a form to be used for this purpose, the partner may make the waiver by completing the form in accordance with the form's instructions. If such a form is not furnished, the statement shall— 


(1) Be clearly identified as a waiver under section 6224(b); 


(2) Identify the partner and the partnership by name, address, and taxpayer identification number; 


(3) Specify the right or restriction being waived and the taxable year(s) to which the waiver applies; 


(4) Be signed by the partner making the waiver; and 


(5) Be filed with the service center where the partnership return is filed. However, if the person filing the statement knows that the notice described in section 6223(a)(1) (beginning of an administrative proceeding) has already been mailed to the tax matters partner, the statement shall be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office that mailed such notice. 


(c) *Effective date.* This section is applicable to partnership taxable years beginning on or after October 4, 2001. For years beginning prior to October 4, 2001, see § 301.6224(b)-1T contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2001.



---

[N] [T.D. 8965, 66 FR 50551, Oct. 4, 2001]




