# ยง 5.2   Document availability.

(a) *Pre-application document.* (1) From the date a potential license applicant files a notification of intent to seek a license pursuant to ยง 5.5 until any related license application proceeding is terminated by the Commission, the potential license applicant must make reasonably available to the public for inspection at its principal place of business or another location that is more accessible to the public, the pre-application document and any materials referenced therein. These materials must be available for inspection during regular business hours in a form that is readily accessible, reviewable, and reproducible.


(2) The materials specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be made available to the requester at the location specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or through the mail, or otherwise. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, copies of the pre-application document and any materials referenced therein must be made available at their reasonable cost of reproduction plus, if applicable, postage.


(3) A potential licensee must make requested copies of the materials specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section available to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the state agency responsible for fish and wildlife resources, any affected Federal land managing agencies, and Indian tribes without charge for the costs of reproduction or postage.


(b) *License application.* (1) From the date on which a license application is filed under this part until the licensing proceeding for the project is terminated by the Commission, the license applicant must make reasonably available to the public for inspection at its principal place of business or another location that is more accessible to the public, a copy of the complete application for license, together with all exhibits, appendices, and any amendments, pleadings, supplementary or additional information, or correspondence filed by the applicant with the Commission in connection with the application. These materials must be available for inspection during regular business hours in a form that is readily accessible, reviewable, and reproducible at the same time as the information is filed with the Commission or required by regulation to be made available.


(2) The applicant must provide a copy of the complete application (as amended) to a public library or other convenient public office located in each county in which the proposed project is located.


(3) The materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be made available to the requester at the location specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or through the mail. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, copies of the license application and any materials referenced therein must be made available at their reasonable cost of reproduction plus, if applicable, postage.


(4) A licensee applicant must make requested copies of the materials specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section available to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and the state agency responsible for fish and wildlife resources, any affected Federal land managing agencies, and Indian tribes without charge for the costs of reproduction or postage.


(c) *Confidentiality of cultural information.* A potential applicant must delete from any information made available to the public under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, specific site or property locations the disclosure of which would create a risk of harm, theft, or destruction of archeological or native American cultural resources or of the site at which the sources are located, or would violate any Federal law, include the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979, 16 U.S.C. 470w-3, and the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. 470hh.


(d) *Access.* Anyone may file a petition with the Commission requesting access to the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section if it believes that the potential applicant or applicant is not making the information reasonably available for public inspection or reproduction. The petition must describe in detail the basis for the petitioner's belief.




