# ยง 171.31   Commission review in the absence of an appeal.

(a) *Request by Commission staff.* At any time prior to the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action, the Division of Enforcement, the Market Participants Division, the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Division of Market Oversight, or the Division of Data may file and serve a memorandum requesting the Commission to institute review of the National Futures Association proceeding. The filing of such a memorandum shall stay the effective date of the decision at issue for twenty days.


(b) *Response by the National Futures Association.* The National Futures Association may file a response to the memorandum of the Commission staff within fifteen days of the service of the memorandum.


(c) *Commission determination of staff request.* To preserve the status quo while it determines whether review is apropriate, the Commission may extend the stay of the effective date of the decision at issue for an additional 30 days. If the Commission decides to take review, the effective date of the decision at issue shall be stayed pending the decision of the Commission, unless otherwise ordered. The Commission shall by order establish the procedure for submission of both the record of the proceeding and the briefs of the parties to the proceeding.


(d) *Commission review on its own motion.* At any time prior to the effective date of a final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary, membership denial or registration action, the Commission may take review of a decision by issuing an appropriate order. If the Commission determines that it is appropriate to take review on its own motion, it shall by order establish the procedure for submission of both the record of the proceeding and the briefs of the parties.



---

[N] [55 FR 41068, Oct. 9, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 62353, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71821, Sept. 4, 2024]




