# ยง 165.13   Consolidation of allegations.

(a) *In general.* Multiple allegations against one or more importers may be consolidated into a single investigation at CBP's discretion. Consolidations may be made at any point prior to the issuance of a determination as to evasion with respect to a particular importer. If multiple allegations are received and consolidated prior to the initiation of an investigation, then the date of receipt of the first properly filed allegation will start the time period for the deadline to initiate the investigation described in ยง 165.15 with respect to that allegation.


(b) *Criteria.* CBP may consolidate multiple allegations if warranted based on the consideration of certain factors. The factors that CBP may consider include, but are not limited to, whether the multiple allegations involve:


(1) Relationships between the importers;


(2) Similarity of covered merchandise;


(3) Similarity of AD/CVD orders; and


(4) Overlap in time periods for entries of covered merchandise.


(c) *Notice.* Notice of consolidation will be promptly transmitted to all parties to the investigation if consolidation occurs at a point in the investigation after which they have already been notified of the ongoing investigation. Otherwise, parties will be notified no later than five business days after day 90 of the investigation.


(d) *Service requirements for other parties to the investigation.* Upon notification of consolidation, parties to the consolidated investigation must serve on the newly added parties to the investigation, via an email message or through any other method approved or designated by CBP, public documents and the public versions of any documents that were previously served on parties to the unconsolidated investigation. Service must take place within five business days of the notice of consolidation.



---

[N] [81 FR 56482, Aug. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 19259, Mar. 18, 2024]










