# § 184.1012   α-Amylase enzyme preparation from Bacillus stearothermophilus.

(a) α-Amylase enzyme preparation is obtained from the culture filtrate that results from a pure culture fermentation of a nonpathogenic and nontoxicogenic strain of *Bacillus stearothermophilus.* Its characterizing enzyme activity is α-amylase (1,4 α-D glucan glucanohydrolase (E.C. 3.2.1.1)).


(b) The ingredient meets the general and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 3d ed. (1981), pp. 107-110, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or may be examined at the Office Food Additive Safety (HFS-200), Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, 240-402-1200, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practices. The affirmation of this ingredient as GRAS as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an enzyme, as defined in § 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter, in the hydrolysis of edible starch to produce maltodextrins and nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.


(2) The ingredient is used at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practices.



---

[N] [60 FR 55789, Nov. 3, 1995, as amended at 78 FR 14666, Mar. 7, 2013]




