# ยง 200.192   Removal of 203(k) consultant.

(a) *Cause for removal.* HUD may remove a consultant from the list for any cause that HUD determines to be detrimental to HUD or its programs. Cause for removal includes, but is not limited to: 


(1) Poor performance on a HUD quality control field review; 


(2) Failure to comply with applicable regulations or other written instructions or standards issued by HUD; 


(3) Failure to comply with applicable Civil Rights requirements; 


(4) Being debarred or suspended, or subject to a limited denial of participation; 


(5) Misrepresentation or fraudulent statements; 


(6) Failure to retain standing as a state licensed architect or state-licensed engineer (unless the consultant can demonstrate the required three years experience as a home inspector or remodeling contractor); 


(7) Failure to retain standing as a state licensed home inspector, if the consultant is located in a state that requires such licensing; or 


(8) Failure to respond within a reasonable time to HUD inquiries or requests for documentation. 


(b) *Procedure for removal.* A consultant that is debarred or suspended, or subject to a limited denial of participation will be *automatically* removed from the list. In all other cases, the following procedure for removal will be followed: 


(1) HUD will give the consultant written notice of the proposed removal. The notice will state the reasons for, and the duration of, the proposed removal. 


(2) The consultant will have 20 days from the date of the notice (or longer, if provided in the notice) to submit a written response appealing the proposed removal and to request a conference. A request for a conference must be in writing and must be submitted along with the written response. 


(3) A HUD official will review the appeal and send a response either affirming, modifying, or canceling the removal. The HUD official will not be someone who was involved in HUD's initial removal decision. HUD will respond with a decision within 30 days of receiving the appeal or, if the consultant has requested a conference, within 30 days after the completion of the conference. HUD may extend the 30-day period by providing written notice to the consultant. 


(4) If the consultant does not submit a timely written response, the removal will be effective 20 days after the date of HUD's initial removal notice (or after a longer period provided in the notice). If a written response is submitted, and the removal decision is affirmed or modified, the removal will be effective on the date of HUD's notice affirming or modifying the initial removal decision. 


(c) *Placement on the list after removal.* A consultant that has been removed from the list may apply for placement on the list (in accordance with ยง 200.191) after the period of the consultant's removal from the list has expired. An application will be rejected if the period for the consultant's removal from the list has not expired. 


(d) *Other action.* Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking such other action against a consultant, as provided in 2 CFR part 2424, or from seeking any other remedy against a consultant, available to HUD by statute or otherwise.



---

[N] [67 FR 52380, Aug. 9, 2002, as amended at 72 FR 73494, Dec. 27, 2007]




