# ยง 389.26   Special rules for tariff page filings.

(a) *Tariffs issued by carriers.* The filing fee for tariff pages filed by U.S. air carriers will be charged even if the tariff includes matters involving participating foreign air carriers. It will also be charged if the tariff is issued by a foreign air carrier and includes matters involving participating U.S. air carriers, unless the foreign air carrier has obtained a waiver under ยง 389.24. The fee will not be charged for a blank looseleaf page unless it cancels matter in the preceding issue of the page.


(b) *Tariffs issued by publishing agents.* (1) If the tariff is issued for one or more air carriers exclusively, the fee will be charged for each page.


(2) If the tariff is issued for one or more air carriers and one or more foreign air carriers, the fee will be charged for each page, except for those pages that the issuing agent states contain only:


(i) Matters pertaining exclusively to foreign air carriers that have been granted a waiver; or


(ii) Changes in matters pertaining to foreign air carriers that have been granted a waiver and that are included on the same page with other matters that are reissued without change.


(3) The fee will not be charged for a blank looseleaf page unless it cancels matters in the preceding page.


(4) No fee will be charged when two pages are published back-to-back, one page is not subject to the fee under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and the page on the reverse is issued without substantive change.


(5) The fee will be charged for two looseleaf pages containing a correction number check sheet unless all other pages of the tariff are exempt from the fee.




