# ยง 4279.136   Insurance.

The lender is responsible for ensuring that required insurance is maintained by the borrower.


(a) *Hazard.* Hazard insurance with a standard clause naming the lender as mortgagee or loss payee, as applicable, is required for the life of the guaranteed loan. The amount must be at least equal to the replacement value of the collateral or the outstanding balance of the loan, whichever is the greater amount.


(b) *Life.* The lender may require a collateral assignment of life insurance to insure against the risk of death of persons critical to the success of the business. When required, coverage must be in amounts necessary to provide for management succession or to protect the business. The Agency may require life insurance on key individuals for loans where the lender has not otherwise proposed such coverage. The cost of insurance and its effect on the applicant's working capital must be considered, as well as the amount of existing insurance that could be assigned without requiring additional expense.


(c) *Worker compensation.* Worker compensation insurance is required in accordance with State law.


(d) *Flood.* National flood insurance is required in accordance with applicable law.


(e) *Other.* The lender must consider whether public liability, business interruption, malpractice, and other insurance is appropriate to the borrower's particular business and circumstances and must require the borrower to obtain such insurance as is necessary to protect the interests of the borrower, the lender, or the Agency.




