# § 2001.45   Information controls.

(a) *General.* Agency heads shall establish a system of control measures which assure that access to classified information is provided to authorized persons. The control measures shall be appropriate to the environment in which the access occurs and the nature and volume of the information. The system shall include technical, physical, and personnel control measures. Administrative control measures which may include records of internal distribution, access, generation, inventory, reproduction, and disposition of classified information shall be required when technical, physical and personnel control measures are insufficient to deter and detect access by unauthorized persons.


(1) *Combinations.* Combinations to locks used to secure vaults, open storage areas, and security containers that are approved for the safeguarding of classified information shall be protected in the same manner as the highest level of classified information that the vault, open storage area, or security container is used to protect.


(2) *Computer and information system passwords.* Passwords shall be protected in the same manner as the highest level of classified information that the computer or system is certified and accredited to process. Passwords shall be changed on a frequency determined to be sufficient to meet the level of risk assessed by the agency.


(b) *Reproduction.* Reproduction of classified information shall be held to the minimum consistent with operational requirements. The following additional control measures shall be taken:


(1) Reproduction shall be accomplished by authorized persons knowledgeable of the procedures for classified reproduction;


(2) Unless restricted by the originating agency, Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential information may be reproduced to the extent required by operational needs, or to facilitate review for declassification;


(3) Copies of classified information shall be subject to the same controls as the original information; and


(4) The use of technology that prevents, discourages, or detects the unauthorized reproduction of classified information is encouraged.


(c) *Forms.* The use of standard forms prescribed in subpart  H of this part is mandatory for all agencies that create and/or handle national security information.


(d) *Redaction*—(1) *Policies and procedures.* Classified information may be subject to loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure if it is not correctly redacted. Agencies shall establish policies and procedures for the redaction of classified information from documents intended for release. Such policies and procedures require the approval of the agency head and shall be sufficiently detailed to ensure that redaction is performed consistently and reliably, using only approved redaction methods that permanently remove the classified information from copies of the documents intended for release. Agencies shall ensure that personnel who perform redaction fully understand the policies, procedures, and methods and are aware of the vulnerabilities surrounding the process.


(2) *Technical guidance for redaction.* Technical guidance concerning appropriate methods, equipment, and standards for the redaction of classified electronic and optical media shall be issued by NSA.




