# ยง 432.31   Training and use of subprofessional staff.

(a) *State plan requirement.* A State plan must provide for the training and effective use of subprofessional staff as community service aides, in accordance with the requirements of this section. 


(b) *Recruitment and selection.* The Medicaid agency must have methods of recruitment and selection that afford opportunity for full-time or part-time employment of persons of low income, including: 


(1) Young, middle-aged, and older persons; 


(2) Physically and mentally disabled; and 


(3) Beneficiaries. 


(c) *Merit system.* Subprofessional positions must be subject to merit system requirements except where special exemption is approved on the basis of a State alternative plan for employment of disadvantaged persons. 


(d) *Staffing plan.* The agency staffing plan must include the kinds of jobs that subprofessional staff can perform. 


(e) *Career service.* The agency must have a career service program that allows persons: 


(1) To enter employment at the subprofessional level; and 


(2) To progress to positions of increasing responsibility and reward: 


(i) In accordance with their abilities; and 


(ii) Through work experience and pre-service and in-service training. 


(f) *Training, supervision and supportive services.* The agency must have an organized training program, supervision, and supportive services for subprofessional staff. 


(g) *Progressive expansion.* The agency must provide for annual increase in the number of subprofessional staff until: 


(1) An appropriate ratio of subprofessional and professional staff has been achieved; and 


(2) There is maximum use of subprofessional staff as community aides in the operation of the program. 




