# § 211.43   Processing of other waiver petitions.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in § 211.41, each petition for a permanent or temporary waiver of a rule, regulation or standard shall be filed and processed as prescribed in §§ 211.7 and 211.9.


(b) *Notice and hearing.* If required by statute or the Administrator deems it desirable, a notice is published in the _Federal Register,_ an opportunity for public comment is provided, and a hearing is held in accordance with § 211.25, before the petition is granted or denied.


(c) *Grants.* If the Administrator determines that the petition complies with the requirements of § 211.9 and that a waiver is justified, he grants the waiver. Conditions may be imposed on the grant of waiver if the Administrator concludes they are necessary to achieve the purposes of programs affected by the grant of waiver or are otherwise in the public interest.


(d) *Denials.* If the Administrator determines that the petition does not comply with the requirements of § 211.9 or that a waiver is not justified, he denies the waiver.


(e) *Notification.* Whenever the Administrator grants or denies a petition, a notice of the grant or denial is sent to the petitioner. When a petition has been decided, interested persons are also notified or a notice is published in the _Federal Register._

(f) *Petitions for reconsideration.* Any person may petition for reconsideration of the grant or denial of a waiver under procedures set forth in § 211.57. Each petition shall be processed in accordance with § 211.59.




