# ยง 95.27   Blood meal, blood albumin, intestines, and other animal byproducts for industrial use; importations permitted subject to restrictions.

Blood meal, blood albumin, bone meal, intestines, or other animal materials intended for use in the industrial arts, which do not meet the conditions or requirements of ยง 95.26 shall be handled and treated in the following manner after arrival at the port of entry. 


(a) They shall be consigned from the coast or border port of arrival to an approved establishment: *Provided, however,* That upon permission by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services they may be stored for a temporary period in approved warehouses under bond and under the supervision of an inspector: *And provided further,* That I. T. or in-bond shipments of such products may go forward under customs seals from a coast or border port of arrival, with the approval of an inspector at said port, to another port of consumption entry, subject after arrival at the latter port to the other provisions of this section. 


(b) They shall be moved from the coast or border port of arrival or, in the case of I. T. or in-bond shipments, from the interior port to the establishment in cars or trucks or in vessel compartments with no other materials contained therein, sealed with seals of the Department, which shall not be broken except by Veterinary Services inspectors or other persons authorized by the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services so to do, or without sealing as aforesaid and with other freight when packed in tight cases or casks acceptable to an inspector at the port of entry. 


(c) They shall be handled at the establishment under the direction of an inspector in a manner to guard against the dissemination of foot-and-mouth disease. They shall not be removed therefrom except upon special permission of the Deputy Administrator, Veterinary Services and upon compliance with all the conditions and requirements of this section relative to the movement of the said products from the port of arrival to the said establishment. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5981, June 13, 1963, as amended at 59 FR 67134, Dec. 29, 1994. Redesignated and amended at 78 FR 73003, 73007, Dec. 4, 2013; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018]




