# ยง 234.11   State highway-rail grade crossing action plans.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of this section is to reduce accident/incidents at highway-rail and pathway grade crossings nationwide by requiring States and the District of Columbia to develop or update highway-rail grade crossing action plans and implement them. This section does not restrict any other entity from adopting a highway-rail grade crossing action plan. This section also does not restrict any State or the District of Columbia from adopting a highway-rail grade crossing action plan with additional or more stringent requirements not inconsistent with this section.


(b) *New Action Plans.* (1) Except for the 10 States identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, each State and the District of Columbia shall develop a State highway-rail grade crossing action plan that addresses each of the required elements listed in paragraph (e) of this section and submit such plan to FRA for review and approval not later than February 14, 2022.


(2) Each State and the District of Columbia shall submit its highway-rail grade crossing action plan electronically through FRA's website in Portable Document Format (PDF).


(c) *Updated Action Plan and implementation report.* (1) Each of the 10 States listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall develop and submit to FRA for review and approval an updated State highway-rail grade crossing action plan that addresses each of the required elements listed in paragraph (e) of this section, not later than February 14, 2022.


(2) Each of the 10 States listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall also develop and submit to FRA, not later than February 14, 2022, a report describing:


(i) How the State implemented the State highway-rail grade crossing action plan that it previously submitted to FRA for review and approval; and


(ii) How the State will continue to reduce highway-rail and pathway grade crossing safety risks.


(3) The requirements of this paragraph (c) apply to the following States: Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana, Ohio, and Texas.


(d) *Electronic submission of updated Action Plan and implementation report.* Each of the 10 States listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall submit its updated highway-rail grade crossing action plan and implementation report electronically through FRA's website in PDF form.


(e) *Required elements for State highway-rail grade crossing action plans.* Each State highway-rail grade crossing action plan described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall:


(1) Identify highway-rail and pathway grade crossings that:


(i) Have experienced at least one accident/incident within the previous 3 years;


(ii) Have experienced more than one accident/incident within the previous 5 years; or


(iii) Are at high-risk for accidents/incidents as defined in the Action Plan. Each State or the District of Columbia that identifies highway-rail and pathway grade crossings that are at high-risk for accidents/incidents in its Action Plan shall provide a list of the factors that were considered when making this determination. At a minimum, these factors shall include:


(A) Average annual daily traffic;


(B) Total number of trains per day that travel through each crossing;


(C) Total number of motor vehicle collisions at each crossing during the previous 5-year period;


(D) Number of main tracks at each crossing;


(E) Number of roadway lanes at each crossing;


(F) Sight distance (stopping, corner and clearing) at each crossing;


(G) Roadway geometry (vertical and horizontal) at each crossing; and


(H) Maximum timetable speed;


(2) Identify data sources used to categorize the highway-rail and pathway grade crossings in paragraph (e)(1) of this section;


(3) Discuss specific strategies, including highway-rail grade crossing closures or grade separations, to improve safety at those crossings over a period of at least four years;


(4) Provide an implementation timeline for the strategies discussed in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and


(5) Designate an official responsible for managing implementation of the State highway-rail grade crossing action plan.


(f) *Point of contact for State highway-rail grade crossing action plans.* (1) When the State or the District of Columbia submits its highway-rail grade crossing action plan or updated Action Plan and implementation report electronically through FRA's website, the following information shall be provided to FRA for the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section:


(i) The name and title of the designated official;


(ii) The business mailing address for the designated official;


(iii) The email address for the designated official; and


(iv) The daytime business telephone number for the designated official.


(2) If the State or the District of Columbia designates another official to assume the responsibilities described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section before December 16, 2024, the State or the District of Columbia shall contact FRA and provide the information listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section for the new designated official.


(g) *Review and approval.* (1) FRA will update its website to reflect receipt of each new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan submitted pursuant to this section.


(2)(i) Within 60 days of receipt of each new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan, FRA will conduct a preliminary review of the Action Plan to ascertain whether the elements prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section are adequately addressed in the plan.


(ii) Each new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan shall be considered conditionally approved for purposes of this section sixty (60) days after receipt by FRA unless FRA notifies the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section that the highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient.


(iii) FRA reserves the right to conduct a more comprehensive review of each new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan within 120 days of receipt.


(3) If FRA determines that the new, updated, or corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient:


(i) FRA will provide email notification to the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section of the specific areas in which the Action Plan is deficient or incomplete and allow the State or the District of Columbia to complete the plan and correct the deficiencies identified.


(ii) Within 60 days of the date of FRA's email notification identifying the specific areas in which the highway-rail grade crossing action plan is incomplete or deficient, the State or District of Columbia shall correct all deficiencies and submit the corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan to FRA for approval. The corrected highway-rail grade crossing action plan shall be submitted electronically through FRA's website in PDF format.


(4)(i) When a new, updated, or corrected State highway-rail grade crossing action plan is fully approved, FRA will provide email notification to the designated official described in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.


(ii) FRA will make each fully-approved State highway-rail grade crossing action plan publicly available for online viewing.


(iii) Each State and the District of Columbia shall implement its fully-approved highway-rail grade crossing action plan.


(h) *Condition for grants.* The Secretary of Transportation may condition the awarding of any grants under 49 U.S.C. ch. 244 on the State's or District of Columbia's submission of an FRA-approved State highway-rail grade crossing action plan under this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 80659, Dec. 14, 2020; 86 FR 10857, Feb. 23, 2021]




