# § 162.30   Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.

(a) *Scope of this subpart.* This section applies to financial institutions or creditors that are subject to administrative enforcement of the FCRA by the Commission pursuant to Sec. 621(b)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681s(b)(1).


(b) *Special definitions for this subpart.* For purposes of this section, and appendix B to this part, the following definitions apply:


(1) Account means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business purposes. Account includes an extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment.


(2) The term *board of directors* includes:


(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, the managing official in charge of the branch or agency; and


(ii) In the case of any other creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated senior management employee.


(3) *Covered account* means:


(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a margin account; and


(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or litigation risks.


(4) *Credit* has the same meaning in Sec. 603(r)(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).


(5) *Creditor* has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4), and includes any futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of credit; or in acting as an assignee of an original creditor, participates in the decision to extend, renew, or continue credit.


(6) *Customer* means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor.


(7) *Financial institution* has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t) and includes any futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that directly or indirectly holds a transaction account belonging to a consumer.


(8) *Identifying information* means any name or number that may be used, alone or in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person, including any—


(i) Name, Social Security number, date of birth, official State or government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number;


(ii) Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina or iris image, or other unique physical representation;


(iii) Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing code; or


(iv) Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1029(e)).


(9) *Identity theft* means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person without authority.


(10) *Red Flag* means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.


(11) *Service provider* means a person that provides a service directly to the financial institution or creditor.


(c) *Periodic identification of covered accounts.* Each financial institution or creditor must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this determination, a financial institution or creditor shall conduct a risk assessment to determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking into consideration:


(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;


(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and


(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.


(d) *Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program*—(1) *Program requirement.* Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Identity Theft Prevention Program must be appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.


(2) *Elements of the Identity Theft Prevention Program.* The Identity Theft Prevention Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:


(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Identity Theft Prevention Program;


(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Identity Theft Prevention Program of the financial institution or creditor;


(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and


(iv) Ensure the Identity Theft Prevention Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.


(e) *Administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program.* Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program must provide for the continued administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program and must:


(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Identity Theft Prevention Program from either its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;


(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program;


(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Identity Theft Prevention Program; and


(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.


(f) *Guidelines.* Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program must consider the guidelines in appendix B of this part and include in its Identity Theft Prevention Program those guidelines that are appropriate.




