# § 98.474   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) *CO*_2_*received.* (1) You must determine the quarterly flow rate of CO_2_ received by pipeline by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may measure flow rate at the receiving custody transfer meter prior to any subsequent processing operations at the facility and collect the flow rate quarterly.


(ii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly flow rate data from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.


(iii) If you inject CO_2_ from a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may use the quarterly CO_2_ flow rate that was measured at the equivalent of a custody transfer meter following procedures provided in subpart PP of this part. To be the equivalent of a custody transfer meter, a meter must measure the flow of CO_2_ being transported to an injection well to the same degree of accuracy as a meter used for commercial transactions.


(2) You must determine the quarterly mass or volume of contents in all containers if you receive CO_2_ in containers by the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may measure the mass of contents of containers summed quarterly using weigh bills, scales, or load cells.


(ii) You may determine the volume of the contents of containers summed quarterly.


(iii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly mass or volume of contents from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.


(3) You must determine a quarterly concentration of the CO_2_ received that is representative of all CO_2_ received in that quarter by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:


(i) You may sample the CO_2_ stream at least once per quarter at the point of receipt and measure its CO_2_ concentration.


(ii) If you took ownership of the CO_2_ in a commercial transaction for which the sales contract was contingent on CO_2_ concentration, and if the supplier of the CO_2_ sampled the CO_2_ stream in a quarter and measured its concentration per the sales contract terms, you may use the CO_2_ concentration data from the sales contract for that quarter.


(iii) If you inject CO_2_ from a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may report the quarterly CO_2_ concentration of the CO_2_ stream supplied that was measured following procedures provided in subpart PP of this part as the quarterly CO_2_ concentration of the CO_2_ stream received.


(4) You must assume that the CO_2_ you receive meets the definition of a CO_2_ stream unless you can trace it through written records to a source other than a CO_2_ stream.


(b) *Measurement devices.* (1) All flow meters must be operated continuously except as necessary for maintenance and calibration.


(2) You must calibrate all flow meters used to measure quantities reported in § 98.476 according to the calibration and accuracy requirements in § 98.3(i).


(3) You must operate all measurement devices according to one of the following. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or an industry standard practice. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).


(4) You must ensure that any flow meter calibrations performed are National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable.


(c) *General.* (1) If you measure the concentration of any CO_2_ quantity for reporting, you must measure according to one of the following. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or an industry standard practice.


(2) You must convert all measured volumes of CO_2_ to the following standard industry temperature and pressure conditions for use in Equation UU-2 of this subpart: Standard cubic meters at a temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and at an absolute pressure of 1 atmosphere.


(3) For 2011, you may follow the provisions of § 98.3(d)(1) through (2) for best available monitoring methods rather than follow the monitoring requirements of this section. For purposes of this subpart, any reference to the year 2010 in § 98.3(d)(1) through (2) shall mean 2011.



---

[N] [75 FR 75086, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 89274, Dec. 9, 2016]




