# ยง 1499.1   Purpose and applicability.

(a) This part sets forth the general terms and conditions governing the award of donated commodities and funds by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to recipients under the Food for Progress (FFPr) Program. Under the FFPr Program, recipients use the donated commodities, proceeds from any sale of such commodities, CCC-provided funds, and program income to implement a project in a foreign country pursuant to an agreement with CCC. The Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) administers the FFPr Program on behalf of CCC.


(b)(1) The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance on Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in 2 CFR part 200. In 2 CFR 400.1, USDA adopted OMB's guidance in subparts A through F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400, as USDA policies and procedures for uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.


(2) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to the FFPr Program, except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section.


(c) In addition to the provisions of this part, other regulations that are generally applicable to grants and cooperative agreements of USDA, including the applicable regulations set forth in 2 CFR chapters I, II, and IV, also apply to the FFPr Program, to the extent that such regulations do not directly conflict with the provisions of this part. The provisions of the CCC Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 *et seq.*) and any other statutory or regulatory provisions that are generally applicable to CCC apply to the FFPr Program.


(d) In accordance with 7 U.S.C. 1736o(b)(5), assistance under the FFPr Program may be provided to governments of emerging agricultural countries, intergovernmental organizations, private voluntary organizations, nonprofit agricultural organizations or cooperatives, nongovernmental organizations, colleges or universities, and any other private entities.


(e) The OMB guidance at 2 CFR part 200, and the provisions of 2 CFR part 400 and of this part, do not apply to an award by CCC under the FFPr Program to a recipient that is a foreign public entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, and, therefore, they do not apply to a foreign government or an intergovernmental organization.




(f)(1) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all awards by CCC under the FFPr Program to all recipients that are private voluntary organizations, including a private voluntary organization that is a foreign organization, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1; nonprofit agricultural organizations or cooperatives, including a nonprofit agricultural organization or cooperative that is a foreign organization; nongovernmental organizations, including a nongovernmental organization that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization; colleges or universities; or other private entities, including a private entity that is a for-profit entity or a foreign organization.






(2) The OMB guidance at subparts A through E of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to all subawards to all subrecipients under this part, except in cases:


(i) Where the subrecipient is a foreign public entity; or


(ii) Where CCC determines that the application of these provisions to a subaward to a subrecipient that is a foreign organization would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the statutes or regulations of a foreign government or would not be in the best interest of the United States.


(g)(1) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies only to awards by CCC to recipients that are private voluntary organizations, agricultural organizations or cooperatives, nongovernmental organizations, colleges or universities, or other private entities, but that are not for-profit entities or foreign organizations.


(2) The OMB guidance at subpart F of 2 CFR part 200, as supplemented by 2 CFR part 400 and this part, applies to subawards to subrecipients under this part, except where the subrecipient is a for-profit entity, foreign public entity, or foreign organization.


(3) Audit requirements for recipients and subrecipients that are for-profit entities or foreign organizations are set forth in ยง 1499.18.



---

[N] [81 FR 62605, Sept. 12, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 45058, Aug. 28, 2019; 87 FR 53365, Aug. 31, 2022]




