# ยง 117.801   Newtown Creek, Dutch Kills, English Kills and their tributaries.

(a) The following requirements apply to all bridges across Newtown Creek, Dutch Kills, English Kills, and their tributaries: 


(1) The owners of all bridges across Newtown Creek, Dutch Kills, English Kills and their tributaries listed under this section, shall provide and keep in good legible condition two clearance gauges with figures not less than 12 inches high designed, installed and maintained according to the provisions of ยง 118.160 of this chapter. 


(2) Trains and locomotives shall be controlled so that any delay in opening the draw shall not exceed five minutes. If a train moving toward the bridge has crossed the home signal for the bridge before the request to open the bridge is given, that train may continue across the bridge, but must clear the interlock before stopping. 


(b) The draws of the Long Island Railroad bridges, at mile 1.1, across Dutch Kills at Queens, shall open on signal if at least six-hours advance notice is given to the Long Island Railroad Movement Bureau, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(c) The draw of the Borden Avenue Bridge, mile 1.2, across Dutch Kills at Queens, shall open on signal if at least a two-hour advance notice is given to the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) Radio Hotline or NYCDOT Bridge Operations Office. 


(d) The draw of the Hunters Point Avenue Bridge, mile 1.4, across Dutch Kills at Queens, shall open on signal if at least a two-hour advance notice is given to the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) Radio Hotline or the NYCDOT Bridge Operations Office. 


(e) The draw of the Metropolitan Avenue Bridge, mile 3.4, across English Kills at New York City, shall open on signal if at least a two-hour advance notice is given to the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) Radio Hotline or the NYCDOT Bridge Operations Office. 


(f) The draw of the Grand Street/Avenue Bridge, mile 3.1, across Newtown Creek (East Branch) between Brooklyn and Queens, shall open on signal if at least a two-hour advance notice is given to the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT) Radio Hotline or the NYCDOT Bridge Operations Office. 


(g)(1) The draw of the of the Pulaski Bridge, mile 0.6, and the Greenpoint Avenue Bridge, mile 1.3, shall open on signal if at least a two hour advance notice is given to the New York City Department of Transportation Radio (Hotline) Room.


(2) The Pulaski Bridge, mile 0.6, need not open for vessel traffic at various times between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on the first Sunday in both May and November. The exact time and date of the bridge closure will be published in the Local Notice to Mariners several weeks prior to the first Sunday of both May and November.


(h) The draw of the Hunters Point Avenue Bridge, mile 1.4, across Dutch Kills at Queens, may be maintained in the closed to navigation position until July 1, 2025.



---

[N] [CGD01-99-069, 65 FR 46872, Aug. 1, 2000, as amended by CGD01-04-019, 69 FR 34573, June 22, 2004; USCG-2024-0392, 89 FR 86242, Oct. 30, 2024]






