# § 19.169   Effect of failure to furnish a superseding bond or a new bond.

(a) *Operations bond.* Except as provided in § 19.151(d), a person may not operate a distilled spirits plant without an operations bond. A person who does not submit an acceptable superseding operations bond when required to do so under § 19.168(a) must immediately discontinue the activities to which the lapsed bond coverage relates upon lapse of the existing bond coverage. If a proprietor must furnish an operations bond under § 19.168(b)(1) and does not submit an operations bond within the time prescribed in § 19.168(b)(2), the proprietor must immediately discontinue the activities required to be covered by the operations bond.


(b) *Withdrawal bond.* Except as provided in § 19.151(d), a person may not defer payment of taxes on spirits withdrawn from a distilled spirits plant upon determination of tax without a withdrawal bond. If a person is required to submit a new or superseding withdrawal bond under § 19.168, the person must submit the bond in accordance with that section. A person who does not submit and receive approval of an acceptable withdrawal bond when required to do so under § 19.168 may not withdraw distilled spirits from the bonded premises on a deferred basis. Upon lapse of the existing bond coverage, or upon the date a new bond is required under § 19.168(b), the person must pay the tax at the time of withdrawal, except in the case of distilled spirits withdrawn free of tax or withdrawn without payment of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5214 or withdrawn exempt from tax under 26 U.S.C. 7510.


(c) *Unit bond.* A person who does not provide an acceptable superseding unit bond when required to do so under § 19.168 must immediately discontinue the business or distilled spirits operations to which the lapsed bond coverage relates. Upon lapse of the existing bond coverage the person must also pay the tax at the time of withdrawal, except in the case of distilled spirits withdrawn free of tax or withdrawn without payment of tax under 26 U.S.C. 5214 or withdrawn exempt from tax under 26 U.S.C. 7510.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1121, Jan. 4, 2017]




