# ยง 2916.2-1   Applications.

(a) *Qualifications of applicants.* Any person who is a citizen of the United States, or any group or association composed of such persons, or any corporation organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State thereof, authorized to conduct business in Alaska may file an application. 


(b) *Contents of application.* An application for lease should be filed in duplicate in the proper office. No specific form of application is required, but the application should contain or be accompanied by the following: 


(1) Applicant's full name, post office address, the general nature of his present business, and the principal place of business. 


(2)(i) A statement of the age and of the citizenship status, whether native-born or naturalized, of the applicant, if an individual, or of each partner or member of a partnership or association. A copartnership or an association applicant shall file a copy of whatever written articles of association its members have executed. 


(ii) A corporation shall file a certified copy of its articles of incorporation, evidence that it is authorized to transact business in Alaska, and a copy of the corporate minutes or resolutions authorizing the filing of the application and the execution of the lease. 


(3) Description of the land for which the lease is desired, by legal subdivision, section, township, and range, if surveyed, and by metes and bounds, with the approximate area, if unsurveyed. The metes and bounds description should be connected by course and distance with some corner of the public-land surveys, if practicable, or with reference to rivers, creeks, mountains, towns, islands, or other prominent topographical points or natural objects or monuments. 


(4) A statement as to the applicant's experience in and knowledge of fur farming. 


(5) A statement as to the kind of fur-bearing animals to be raised, and, if foxes, the color type; the number of fur-bearing animals the applicant proposes to have on the leased land within one year from the date of the lease, and whether it is proposed to purchase or trap the stock; and that before commencing operations of any lease which may be issued, the applicant will procure from the appropriate State game agency whatever licenses are required under Alaska law. 


(6) A detailed statement of the reasons for the need for any area in excess of 640 acres but not exceeding 30 square miles, when the land applied for is comprised of an island, or islands. 


(7) A statement of the nature and results of the investigation made by applicant as to whether the land and climate are suited to raising the kind of animals proposed to be stocked. 


(8) A statement as to whether the land is occupied, claimed, or used by natives of Alaska or others; and, if so the nature of the use and occupancy and the improvements thereon, if any. 


(9) If beavers are to be raised, a statement as to whether a beaver colony exists on the land, and whether salmon streams or lakes are on or adjacent to the land proposed to be leased. 


(10) A statement that the applicant is acting solely on his own account and not under any agreement or understanding with another. 


(11) The serial numbers of all other applications filed or leases obtained under this act by applicant, or applicant's spouse or business associate, or in which applicant has a direct or indirect interest. 


(12) The showing as to hot or medicinal springs required by ยง 2311.2(a) of this chapter. 


(13) All applications must be accompanied by an application service fee of $10 which will not be returnable. 


(c) *Form of lease; rental and royalty; report of annual operations.* (1) Leases will be issued on a form approved by the Director. 


(2) Prior to the issuance of a lease and annually thereafter, the lessee shall pay an advance rental of $5 per annum if the lease embraces 10 acres or less, a rental of $25 per annum if the leased area is more than 10 acres but not more than 640 acres, and a rental of $50 per annum if the leased area exceeds 640 acres. 


(3) Within 60 days after the end of each lease year the lessee shall file with the land office a report on a form approved by the Director, in duplicate, showing his operations under the lease and his gross receipts thereunder from the sale of live animals and pelts for the preceding lease year. The lessee shall pay, at the time of filing the report, a royalty of 1 percent of such gross receipts deducting therefrom the amount of the advance rental payment made for such preceding lease year. 




