# ยง 1.826-3   Attorney-in-fact of electing reciprocals.

(a) *Manner of making consent.* Section 826(c)(2) provides that a reciprocal may not elect to be subject to the limitation provided by section 826(b) unless its attorney-in-fact consents to make certain information available. See paragraph (b) of this section. The attorney-in-fact of a reciprocal making the election provided by section 826(a) shall signify the consent required by section 826(c) in a statement attached to its income tax return for the first taxable year for which the reciprocal's election is to apply. Such statement shall include the name and address of the consenting taxpayer; the name and address of the reciprocal with respect to which such consent is to apply; shall be signed by the taxpayer (or its duly authorized representative); and shall be filed not later than the date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for the first taxable year for which such consent is to apply. In addition, such statement shall specify that the taxpayer is subject to the taxes imposed by section 11 (b) and (c); the method of accounting used in reporting income received from its reciprocal and the deductions allocable thereto; and that its return is filed on the calendar year basis. Consent, once given, shall be irrevocable for the period during which the election provided for the reciprocal by section 826(a) is in effect. See paragraph (e) of ยง 1.826-1.


(b) *Information required of consenting attorney-in-fact.* Every attorney-in-fact making the consent provided by section 826(c)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section shall, in the manner prescribed by paragraph (c) of this section, furnish the following information for each taxable year during which the consent provided by section 826(c)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is in effect:


(1) The name and address of the reciprocal with respect to which the consent required by section 826(c)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is to apply;


(2) Gross income in total and by sources, adjusted for returns and allowances;


(3) Deductions (itemized to the same extent as on taxpayer's income tax return and accompanying schedules) allocable to each source of gross income and in total (see ยง 1.826-4);


(4) Method of allocation used in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph;


(5) Taxable income (if any) in total and by sources, as in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (income by sources from subparagraph (2) of this paragraph minus expenses allocable thereto under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph); 


(6) Total income tax liability (if any) for the taxable year;


(7) Taxes paid attributable (under ยง 1.826-5) to income earned by the taxpayer in dealing with the reciprocal;


(8) Such other information as may be required by the district director.


(c) *Manner in which information is to be provided.* (1) The information required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be set forth in a statement attached to the taxpayer's income tax return for each taxable year for which the consent provided by section 826(c)(2) and paragraph (a) of this section is in effect. Such statement shall include the name and address of the taxpayer, and shall be filed not later than the date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the income tax return for each taxable year for which such information is required.


(2) A copy of the statement containing the information required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to the board of advisors (or other comparable body) of the reciprocal on whose behalf the consent provided under section 826(c)(2) is given. The copy shall be executed in the same manner as the original and shall be delivered to such board not later than 10 days before the last date prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the reciprocal's income tax return for the taxable year for which the information is required unless the attorney-in-fact establishes to the satisfaction of the district director that the failure to furnish such copy or the failure to furnish such copy within the prescribed 10 day period was due to circumstances beyond its control. In addition, there shall be attached to and made a part of such copy, a copy of the income tax return of the attorney-in-fact (including accompanying schedules) for each taxable year for which such statement is required.



---

[N] [T.D. 6681, 28 FR 11125, Oct. 17, 1963]




