# ยง 41.2   Definitions.

Unless otherwise clear from the context, the following definitions apply to proceedings under this part:


*Affidavit* means affidavit, declaration under ยง 1.68 of this title, or statutory declaration under 28 U.S.C. 1746. A transcript of an *ex parte* deposition may be used as an affidavit in a contested case.


*Board* means the Patent Trial and Appeal Board and includes:


(1) For a final Board action:


(i) In an appeal or contested case, a panel of the Board.


(ii) In a proceeding under ยง 41.3, the Chief Administrative Patent Judge or another official acting under an express delegation from the Chief Administrative Patent Judge.


(2) For non-final actions, a Board member or employee acting with the authority of the Board.


*Board member* means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the Commissioner for Patents, the Commissioner for Trademarks, and the administrative patent judges.


*Contested case* means a Board proceeding other than an appeal under 35 U.S.C. 134 or a petition under ยง 41.3. An appeal in an *inter partes* reexamination is not a contested case.


*Final* means, with regard to a Board action, final for the purposes of judicial review. A decision is final only if:


(1) *In a panel proceeding.* The decision is rendered by a panel, disposes of all issues with regard to the party seeking judicial review, and does not indicate that further action is required; and


(2) *In other proceedings.* The decision disposes of all issues or the decision states it is final.


*Hearing* means consideration of the issues of record. *Rehearing* means reconsideration.


*Office* means United States Patent and Trademark Office.


*Panel* means at least three Board members acting in a panel proceeding.


*Panel proceeding* means a proceeding in which final action is reserved by statute to at least three Board members, but includes a non-final portion of such a proceeding whether administered by a panel or not.


*Party,* in this part, means any entity participating in a Board proceeding, other than officers and employees of the Office, including:


(1) An appellant;


(2) A participant in a contested case;


(3) A petitioner; and


(4) Counsel for any of the above, where context permits.



---

[N] [69 FR 50003, Aug. 12, 2004, as amended at 77 FR 46630, Aug. 6, 2012]




