# § 1236.52   Requirements for digitizing permanent mixed-media records.

Mixed-media files are records that belong together or relate to a common topic and are stored on more than one media type. Mixed-media files result from the processes agencies use to create, maintain, and use records. For example, a case file may include paper records, online digital records, and digital records on storage media.


(a) For any non-paper media, agencies must analyze the contents to determine whether any files are records.


(1) If the media contains records that are temporary, manage them according to their appropriate GRS or agency-specific records authority.


(2) If the media contains records that are permanent, but not part of the digitized record series, locate their disposition schedule and capture them in a digital information system that complies with the requirements in § 1222.26 of this subchapter and §§ 1236.10 through 1236.14.


(3) If the media contains born-digital components of mixed-media files that are related to the digitized records series, capture the born-digital records in a recordkeeping system in accordance with § 1222.26 of this subchapter and associate the born-digital records with any related records once they are digitized using the “Relation” metadata elements in § 1236.54.


(4) If they are permanent records stored on a media type that is out of scope for this subpart, document this information according to the instructions in § 1236.44. Agencies must maintain the association between records using the “Relation” metadata elements specified in § 1236.54.


(b) Contact the Records Management Policy and Standards Team at *rmstandards@nara.gov* for guidance on what to do with types of media in a mixed-media file that are outside the scope of this subpart, such as dynamic media, x-rays, negative or positive film, or other special media types.




