# ยง 354.1   Definitions.

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning: 


(a) *Act* means the applicable provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (60 Stat. 1087; 7 U.S.C. 1621 *et seq.*) or any other act of Congress conferring like authority. 


(b) *Acceptable* means suitable for the purpose intended and acceptable to the Service. 


(c) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated the authority to act in his stead. 


(d) *Applicant* means any interested party who requests any inspection service. 


(e) *Area supervisor* means any employee of the Department in charge of rabbit inspection service in a designated geographical area. 


(f) *Carcass* means any rabbit carcass. 


(g) *Circuit supervisor* or *technical supervisor* means the officer in charge of the rabbit inspection service in a circuit consisting of a group of stations within an area. 


(h) *Class* means any subdivision of a product based on essential physical characteristics that differentiate between major groups of the same kind. 


(i) *Condition* means any condition, including, but not being limited to, the state of preservation, cleanliness, or soundness, of any product or the processing, handling, or packaging which may affect such product. 


(j) *Condition and wholesomeness* means the condition of any product, its healthfulness and fitness for human food. 


(k) *Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


(l) *Edible product* means any product derived from ready-to-cook domestic rabbits. 


(m) *Giblets* means the liver from which the bile sac has been removed and the heart from which the pericardial sac has been removed. 


(n) *Holiday* or *legal holiday* shall mean the legal public holidays specified by the Congress in paragraph (a) of section 6103, Title 5, of the United States Code. 


(o) *Identify* means to apply official identification to products or to containers thereof. 


(p) *Inspected and certified* or *certified* means, with respect to any product, that it has undergone an inspection and was found, at the time of such inspection, to be sound, wholesome, and fit for human food. 


(q) *Inspection, inspection service,* or *inspection of products for condition and wholesomeness* means any inspection by an inspector to determine, in accordance with the regulations in this part, (1) the condition and wholesomeness of rabbits, or (2) the condition and wholesomeness of any edible product at any state of the preparation or packaging thereof in the official plant where inspected and certified, or (3) the condition and wholesomeness of any previously inspected and certified product if such product has not lost its identity as an inspected and certified product. 


(r) *Inspection certificate* means a statement, either written or printed, issued by an inspector, pursuant to the regulations in this part, relative to the condition and wholesomeness of products. 


(s) *Inspector* means any person who is licensed by the Secretary to investigate and certify, in accordance with the regulations in this part, the condition and wholesomeness of products. An inspector is an employee of the Department or of a State; he may be a graduate veterinarian or a layman. 


(t) *Interested party* means any person financially interested in a transaction involving any inspection. 


(u) *National supervisor* means (1) the officer in charge of the rabbit inspection service of the Food Safety and Inspection Service, and (2) other officers or employees of the Department designated by the officer in charge of the rabbit inspection service of the Food Safety and Inspection Service. 


(v) *Official plant* means one or more buildings or parts thereof, comprising a single plant in which the facilities and methods of operation therein have been approved by the Administrator as suitable and adequate for operation under inspection service and in which inspection is carried on in accordance with the regulations in this part. 


(w) *Person* means any individual, partnership, association, business trust, corporation, or any organized group of persons, whether incorporated or not. 


(x) *Potable water* means water that has been approved by the State health authority as safe for drinking and suitable for food processing. 


(y) *Product* means ready-to-cook cooked rabbits, or edible products derived therefrom. 


(z) *Rabbit* means any domesticated rabbit, whether live or dead. 


(aa) *Rabbit inspection service* means the personnel who are engaged in the administration, application, and direction of rabbit inspection programs and services pursuant to the regulations in this part. 


(bb) *Ready-to-cook domestic rabbit* means any rabbit which has been slaughtered for human food, from which the head, blood, skin, feet, and inedible viscera have been removed, that is ready to cook without need of further processing. Ready-to-cook rabbit also means any cut-up or disjointed portion of rabbit or any edible part thereof, as described in this paragraph. 


(cc) *Regulations* means the provisions of this entire part as may be in effect at the time inspection is performed. 


(dd) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in his stead. 


(ee) *Service* means the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department. 


(ff) *Station supervisor* means any authorized individual who is designated to supervise rabbit inspection service in a large official plant or in a group of several small plants. 




