# § 63.11125   What are my recordkeeping requirements?

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the management practices in § 63.11118 must keep records of all tests performed under § 63.11120(a) and (b).


(b) Records required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be kept for a period of 5 years and shall be made available for inspection by the Administrator's delegated representatives during the course of a site visit.


(c) Each owner or operator of a gasoline cargo tank subject to the management practices in Table 2 to this subpart must keep records documenting vapor tightness testing for a period of 5 years. Documentation must include each of the items specified in § 63.11094(b)(2)(i) through (viii). Records of vapor tightness testing must be retained as specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator must keep all vapor tightness testing records with the cargo tank.


(2) As an alternative to keeping all records with the cargo tank, the owner or operator may comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator may keep records of only the most recent vapor tightness test with the cargo tank, and keep records for the previous 4 years at their office or another central location.


(ii) Vapor tightness testing records that are kept at a location other than with the cargo tank must be instantly available (*e.g.,* via e-mail or facsimile) to the Administrator's delegated representative during the course of a site visit or within a mutually agreeable time frame. Such records must be an exact duplicate image of the original paper copy record with certifying signatures.


(d) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (*i.e.,* process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11115(a), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.



---

[N] [73 FR 1945, Jan. 10, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 4183, Jan. 24, 2011]




