# § 3560.752   Appraisal use, request, review, and release.

(a) *Appraisal uses.* The Agency will use appraisals to determine whether the security offered by an applicant or borrower is adequate to secure a loan or determine appropriate servicing or preservation decisions. Appraisals used for Agency decision-making must be current, unless the Agency and the applicant, or borrower, mutually agree to the use of an appraisal that is not current. A current appraisal is an appraisal with a report date that is not more than one year old.


(b) *Appraisal requests.* Appraisal requests must be in writing and must specify the client and other intended users, the intended use, the purpose, and the scope of work of the appraisal, including the type and definition of the value(s) to be developed.


(1) *Type of Value.* The appraisal request must indicate whether the “market value”, the “market value, subject to restricted rents”, or any other type of value of the housing project and related facilities is to be concluded.


(i) A request for “market value, subject to restricted rents” means the appraisal will take into consideration any rent limits, rent subsidies, expense abatements, or restrictive-use conditions that will affect the property as a result of an agreement with the Agency or any other financing source. Each type of financing involved, including, but not limited to, interest credit subsidy, low-interest loans from other sources, tax-exempt bond financing, tax credits, and grants, must be valued separately in the appraisal.


(ii) A request for “market value” means the appraisal will take into consideration the most probable price which a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably, and assuming the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby:


(A) Buyer and seller are typically motivated;


(B) Both parties are well informed or well advised and acting in what they consider their best interests;


(C) A reasonable time is allowed for exposure in the open market;


(D) Payment is made in terms of cash in United States dollars or in terms of financial arrangements comparable thereto; and


(E) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or sales concessions granted by anyone associated with the sale.


(2) *“ ‘As-is’ Value” or “Prospective Value”.* The appraisal request must indicate whether the “‘as-is’ value” or “prospective value” of the housing is to be concluded.


(i) “ ‘As-is’ value” means the value of the housing and related facilities as of the effective date of the appraisal. It relates to what physically exists and is legally permissible at the time of the appraisal and excludes all hypothetical conditions.


(ii) “Prospective value” means the forecasted value of the housing and related facilities as of a specified future date. For Agency appraisals, this date will typically be the projected completion date of proposed new construction or rehabilitation.


(3) *Section 8 project-based assistance.* Depending on the intended use of the appraisal, the Agency will specify whether or not section 8 project-based assistance will be considered in the valuation of the housing. The remaining term of the section 8 contract and the probability of subsequent renewal terms being authorized will be taken into consideration when making this determination.


(4) *Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) and other financing sources.* Depending on the intended use of the appraisal, the Agency will specify whether or not tax credits and other financing sources involved in the housing will be considered in the valuation of the housing.


(c) *Appraisal review.* All MFH appraisals that were not written by an Agency appraiser will be reviewed by an Agency appraiser, who will write and file a technical review report that complies with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) and Agency requirements.


(d) *Release of appraisals.* MFH appraisals procured by the Agency will be released to owners/applicants, from their own files, upon their request.




