# § 513.2   Definitions.

(a) *Statutory definitions.* All terms used in this part have the same meaning as in 49 U.S.C. 30102(a) or (b), unless otherwise defined in this part.


(b) *Other terms.* As used in this part:


*Administrative action.* The term “administrative action” means all or a portion of an action, other than a judicial action, brought by the NHTSA or the U.S. Department of Transportation under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301 that may result in civil penalties or other monetary payment paid to and collected by the United States government. It specifically includes settlement agreements and consent orders that are entered into by the Agency.


*Agency.* The term “Agency” refers to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).


*Collected monetary sanctions.* The term “collected monetary sanctions” means monies, including penalties and interest, ordered or agreed to be paid and that have been collected by the United States, pursuant to the authority in 49 U.S.C. 30165 or under the authority of 49 U.S.C. 30170.


*Contractor.* The term “contractor” means an individual presently or formerly providing goods or services to a motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership pursuant to a contract.


*Covered action.* The term “covered action” means any administrative or judicial action, including any related administrative or judicial action brought by the Secretary, NHTSA, or the Attorney General under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301, or a regulation thereunder, that in the aggregate results in monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000. The over $1,000,000 threshold can be satisfied if the total amount of monetary sanctions paid by multiple defendants or parties and collected by the United States totals more than $1,000,000 in the covered action.


*Dealership.* The term “dealership” means a person selling and distributing motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment primarily to purchasers that in good faith purchase the vehicles or equipment other than for resale.


*Employee.* The term “employee” means an individual presently or formerly employed by a motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership.


*Independent knowledge or analysis.* The term “knowledge” as used in this part means factual information in the potential whistleblower's possession that is not generally known or available to the public and is not already known to NHTSA. The potential whistleblower may gain independent knowledge from the potential whistleblower's experiences, communications, and observations in the potential whistleblower's business or social interactions. As used in this part, “analysis” means the potential whistleblower's examination and evaluation of information that may be generally or publicly available, but which reveals information that is not generally known or available to the public. This analysis must be the potential whistleblower's own analysis, whether done alone or in combination with others. NHTSA will not consider the potential whistleblower's information to be derived from the potential whistleblower's independent knowledge or analysis if the potential whistleblower obtained the information:


(i) Solely through a communication that was subject to the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine; or


(ii) By a means or in a manner that has been determined by a United States federal court or state court to violate applicable federal or state criminal law.


*Motor vehicle defect.* The term “motor vehicle defect” means a defect in a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment.


*Noncompliance.* A “noncompliance” occurs when a motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment does not comply with an applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard.


*Original information.* The term “original information” means information that—


(i) Is derived from the independent knowledge or analysis of an individual;


(ii) Is not known to the Secretary or Agency from any other source, unless the individual is the original source of the information;


(iii) Is not exclusively derived from an allegation made in a judicial or an administrative action, in a governmental report, a hearing, an audit, or an investigation, or from the news media, unless the individual is a source of the information; and


(iv) Is provided to the Agency for the first time after December 4, 2015.


*Original information that leads to a successful resolution.* The Agency will consider that the potential whistleblower provided original information that “leads to” a successful resolution of a covered action in the following circumstances:


(i) The potential whistleblower gave the Agency original information that was sufficiently specific, credible and timely to cause the Agency to open an investigation, reopen an investigation that the Agency had closed, continue an investigation the Agency would not have continued but for the information, or to inquire concerning a different potential violation of Chapter 301, or a regulation thereunder, as part of a current investigation, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, Agency, or U.S Department of Justice brought a successful judicial or administrative action based in whole or in part on conduct that was the subject of the potential whistleblower's original information; or


(ii) The potential whistleblower gave the Agency original information about conduct that was already under investigation by the Agency and the potential whistleblower's information significantly contributed to the success of the covered action and the U.S. Department of Transportation, Agency, or U.S. Department of Justice brought a judicial or administrative action that achieves a successful resolution based in whole or in part on conduct that was the subject of the potential whistleblower's original information.


*Part supplier.* The term “part supplier” means a manufacturer of motor vehicle equipment.


*Potential whistleblower.* The term “potential whistleblower” refers to an employee or contractor of a motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership submitting information to the Agency in accordance with and pursuant to this part.


*Related administrative or judicial action.* The term “related administrative or judicial action” means an action that was brought under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301 by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S Department of Transportation, or the Agency and is based on the original information provided by the whistleblower.


*Secretary.* The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Transportation.


*Successful resolution.* A successful resolution, when referring to any administrative or judicial action brought by the Secretary, Agency, or the Attorney General relating to any potential motor vehicle defect, potential noncompliance, or any violation or alleged violation of any notification or reporting requirement under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301, or a regulation thereunder, which is likely to cause unreasonable risk of death or serious physical injury, includes any settlement of the action by the U.S. Department of Transportation, Agency or the U.S. Department of Justice or final decision or judgment in whole or in partial favor of the Agency, the U.S. Department of Transportation, or the U.S. Department of Justice.


*Whistleblower.* The term “whistleblower” means any employee or contractor of a motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership who voluntarily provides to the Agency original information relating to any motor vehicle defect, noncompliance, or any violation or alleged violation of any notification or reporting requirement of 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301, or a regulation thereunder, which is likely to cause unreasonable risk of death or serious physical injury.






