# ยง 240.15Aj-1   Amendments and supplements to registration statements of securities associations.

Every association applying for registration or registered as a national securities association or as an affiliated securities association shall keep its registration statement up-to-date in the manner prescribed below: 


(a) *Amendments.* Promptly after the discovery of any inaccuracy in the registration statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto the association shall file with the Commission an amendment correcting such inaccuracy. 


(b) *Current supplements.* Promptly after any change which renders no longer accurate any information contained or incorporated in the registration statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto the association shall file with the Commission a current supplement setting forth such change, except that: 


(1) Supplements setting forth changes in the information called for in Exhibit C need not be filed until 10 days after the calendar month in which the changes occur. 


(2) No current supplements need be filed with respect to changes in the information called for in Exhibit B. 


(3) If changes in the information called for in items (1) and (2) of Exhibit C are reported in any record which is published at least once a month by the association and promptly filed in triplicate with the Commission, no current supplement need be filed with respect thereto. 


(c) *Annual supplements.* (1) Promptly after March 1 of each year, the association shall file with the Commission an annual consolidated supplement as of such date on Form X-15AJ-2 (ยง 249.803) except that: 


(i) If the securities association publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in Items 6(a) and 6(b) of Form X-15AJ-2 on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such an item the securities association may: 


(A) Identify the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and 


(B) Certify to the accuracy of such information as of its date. 


(ii) Promptly after March 1, 1995, and every three years thereafter each association shall file complete Exhibit A to Form X-15AJ-2. The information contained in this exhibit shall be up to date as of the latest practicable date within 3 months of the date on which these exhibits are filed. If the association publishes or cooperates in the publication of the information required in this exhibit on an annual or more frequent basis, in lieu of filing such exhibit the association may: 


(A) Identify the publication in which such information is available, the name, address, and telephone number of the person from whom such publication may be obtained, and the price thereof; and 


(B) Certify to the accuracy of such information as of its date. If a securities association keeps the information required in this exhibit up to date and makes it available to the Commission and the public upon request, in lieu of filing such an exhibit a securities association may certify that the information is kept up to date and is available to the Commission and the public upon request. 


(2) Promptly after the close of each fiscal year of the association, it shall file with the Commission a supplement setting forth its balance sheet as of the close of such year and its income and expense statement for such year. 


(d) *Filing, dating, etc.* Each amendment or supplement shall be filed in triplicate, at least one of which must be signed and attested, in the same manner as required in the case of the original registration statement, and must conform to the requirements of Form X-15Aj-1, except that the annual consolidated supplement shall be filed on Form X-15Aj-2. All amendments and supplements shall be dated and numbered in order of filing. One amendment or supplement may include any number of changes. In addition to the formal filing of amendments and supplements above described, each association shall send to the Commission three copies of any notices, reports, circulars, loose-leaf insertions, riders, new additions, lists or other records of changes covered by amendments or supplements when, as and if such records are made available to members of the association. 



---

[N] [13 FR 8209, Dec. 22, 1948, as amended at 18 FR 6259, Oct. 1, 1953. Redesignated at 30 FR 11851, Sept. 16, 1965; 59 FR 66700, Dec. 28, 1994] 




