# ยง 405.2403   Rural health clinic content and terms of the agreement with the Secretary.

(a) Under the agreement, the RHC agrees to the following: 


(1) *Maintaining compliance with conditions.* The RHC agrees to maintain compliance with the conditions set forth in part 491 of this chapter and to report promptly to CMS any failure to do so. 


(2) *Charges to beneficiaries.* The RHC agrees not to charge the beneficiary or any other person for items and services for which the beneficiary is entitled to have payment made under the provisions of this part (or for which the beneficiary would have been entitled if the RHC had filed a request for payment in accordance with ยง 410.165 of this chapter), except for any deductible or coinsurance amounts for which the beneficiary is liable under ยง 405.2410. 


(3) *Refunds to beneficiaries.* (i) The RHC agrees to refund as promptly as possible any money incorrectly collected from beneficiaries or from someone on their behalf. 


(ii) As used in this section, *money incorrectly collected* means sums collected in excess of the amount for which the beneficiary was liable under ยง 405.2410. It includes amounts collected at a time when the beneficiary was believed not to be entitled to Medicare benefits but: 


(A) The beneficiary is later determined to have been entitled to Medicare benefits; and 


(B) The beneficiary's entitlement period falls within the time the RHC's agreement with the Secretary is in effect. 


(4) *Beneficiary treatment.* (i) The RHC agrees to accept beneficiaries for care and treatment; and 


(ii) The RHC agrees not to impose any limitations on the acceptance of beneficiaries for care and treatment that it does not impose on all other persons. 


(b) *Additional provisions.* The agreement may contain any additional provisions that the Secretary finds necessary or desirable for the efficient and effective administration of the Medicare program. 



---

[N] [43 FR 8261, Mar. 1, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 41351, Nov. 14, 1986; 79 FR 25474, May 2, 2014]




