# § 1048.110   How must my engines diagnose malfunctions?

The following engine-diagnostic requirements apply for engines equipped with three-way catalysts and closed-loop control of air-fuel ratios:


(a) *Equip your engines with a diagnostic system.* Starting in the 2007 model year, equip each engine with a diagnostic system that will detect significant malfunctions in its emission-control system using one of the following protocols: 


(1) If your emission-control strategy depends on maintaining air-fuel ratios at stoichiometry, an acceptable diagnostic design would identify malfunction whenever the air-fuel ratio does not cross stoichiometry for one minute of intended closed-loop operation. You may use other diagnostic strategies if we approve them in advance. 


(2) If the protocol described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to your engine, you must use an alternative approach that we approve in advance. Your alternative approach must generally detect when the emission-control system is not functioning properly.


(b) *Use a malfunction-indicator light (MIL).* The MIL must be readily visible to the operator; it may be any color except red. When the MIL goes on, it must display “Check Engine,” “Service Engine Soon,” or a similar message that we approve. You may use sound in addition to the light signal. The MIL must go on under each of the following circumstances:


(1) When a malfunction occurs, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(2) When the diagnostic system cannot send signals to meet the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 


(3) When the engine's ignition is in the “key-on” position before starting or cranking. The MIL should go out after engine starting if the system detects no malfunction.


(c) *Control when the MIL can go out.* If the MIL goes on to show a malfunction or system error, it must remain on during all later engine operation until servicing corrects the malfunction. If the engine is not serviced, but the malfunction or system error does not recur for three consecutive engine starts during which the malfunctioning system is evaluated and found to be working properly, the MIL may stay off during later engine operation.


(d) *Store trouble codes in computer memory.* Record and store in computer memory any diagnostic trouble codes showing a malfunction that should illuminate the MIL. The stored codes must identify the malfunctioning system or component as uniquely as possible. Make these codes available through the data link connector as described in paragraph (g) of this section. You may store codes for conditions that do not turn on the MIL. The system must store a separate code to show when the diagnostic system is disabled.


(e) *Make data, access codes, and devices accessible.* Make all required data accessible to us without any access codes or devices that only you can supply. Ensure that anyone servicing your engine can read and understand the diagnostic trouble codes stored in the onboard computer with generic tools and information. 


(f) *Consider exceptions for certain conditions.* Your diagnostic systems may disregard trouble codes for the first three minutes after engine starting. You may ask us to approve diagnostic-system designs that disregard trouble codes under other conditions that would produce an unreliable reading, damage systems or components, or cause other safety risks. This might include operation at altitudes over 8,000 feet.


(g) *Follow standard references for formats, codes, and connections.* Follow conventions defined in 40 CFR 1045.110 or in the following documents (incorporated by reference in § 1048.810) or ask us to approve using updated versions of (or variations from) these documents:


(1) ISO 9141-2 Road vehicles-Diagnostic systems—Part 2: CARB requirements for interchange of digital information, February 1994. 


(2) ISO 14230-4 Road vehicles—Diagnostic systems—Keyword Protocol 2000—Part 4: Requirements for emission-related systems, June 2000. 



---

[N] [67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008]




