# § 36.3121(l)(3)-1   Termination of agreement by domestic corporation or by reason of change in stock ownership.

(a) *Termination by domestic corporation.* (1) A domestic corporation which has entered into an agreement under section 3121(l)(1) with respect to one or more of its foreign subsidiaries may terminate such agreement in part or in its entirety by giving (for calendar quarters beginning before 1969, to the district director for the internal revenue district in which is located the principal place of business in the United States of the domestic corporation; and for calendar quarters beginning after 1968, except as provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents) to the director of the service center serving such internal revenue district 2 years' advance notice in writing of its desire so to terminate the agreement at the end of a specified calendar quarter: *Provided,* That, at the time of the receipt of such notice by such internal revenue officer, the agreement has been in effect with respect to the subsidiary or subsidiaries covered by the notice for at least 8 years. The notice of termination shall be signed and dated and shall show (i) the title of the officer authorized to sign the notice, (ii) the name, address, and identification number of the domestic corporation, (iii) the internal revenue officer with whom the agreement was entered into, (iv) the name and address of each foreign subsidiary with respect to which the agreement is to be terminated, (v) the date on which the agreement became effective with respect to each such foreign subsidiary, and (vi) the date on which the agreement is to be terminated with respect to each such foreign subsidiary. The notice shall be submitted in duplicate and shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting of the board of directors of the domestic corporation, or other evidence, showing authorization for the notice of termination. No particular form is prescribed for the notice of termination. The Internal Revenue Service will transmit one copy of the notice of termination to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.


(2) A notice of termination given by a domestic corporation in respect of any one or more of its foreign subsidiaries may be revoked by the corporation with respect to any such subsidiary or subsidiaries by giving, prior to the close of the calendar quarter specified in the notice of termination, written notice of revocation. The notice of revocation shall be filed with the internal revenue officer with whom the notice of termination was filed. Such notice of revocation shall be signed and dated and shall show (i) the title of the officer authorized to sign the notice of revocation, (ii) the name, address, and identification number of the domestic corporation, (iii) the name and address of each foreign subsidiary with respect to which the notice of termination is revoked, and (iv) the date of the notice of termination to be revoked. The notice shall be submitted in duplicate and shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting of the board of directors of the domestic corporation, or other evidence, showing authorization for the notice of revocation. No particular form is prescribed for the notice of revocation. The Internal Revenue Service will transmit one copy of the notice of revocation to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.


(b) *Termination by reason of change in stock ownership.* (1) The period for which an agreement entered into by a domestic corporation as provided in § 36.3121(l)(1)-1 is in effect with respect to a foreign corporation is automatically terminated at the end of the calendar quarter in which the foreign corporation ceases, at any time in such quarter, to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. See § 36.3121(l)(8)-1, relating to definition of foreign subsidiary.


(2) A domestic corporation which has entered into an agreement as provided in § 36.3121(l)(1)-1 shall furnish (for calendar quarters beginning before 1969, to the district director for the internal revenue district in which is located its principal place of business in the United States; and for calendar quarters beginning after 1968, except as provided in paragraph (b) of § 301.6091-1 (relating to hand-carried documents) to the director of the service center serving such internal revenue district) written notification in the event that a foreign corporation named in the agreement, including any amendment thereof, as a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation ceases to be its foreign subsidiary. The written notification shall be furnished in duplicate on or before the last day of the first month following the close of the calendar quarter in which the foreign corporation ceases, at any time in such quarter, to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. Such notification shall be signed and dated by the president or other principal officer of the domestic corporation. The written notification shall show (i) the title of the officer signing the notice, (ii) the name, address, and identification number of the domestic corporation, (iii) the internal revenue officer with whom the agreement was entered into, (iv) the date on which the agreement was entered into, (v) the name and address of the foreign corporation with respect to which the notification is furnished, and (vi) the date on which the foreign corporation ceased to be a foreign subsidiary of the domestic corporation. No particular form is prescribed for the written notification. The Internal Revenue Service will transmit one copy of the written notification to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.



---

[N] [T.D. 6145, 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7012, 34 FR 7694, May 15, 1969]




