# § 630.1010   Significant projects.

(a) A significant project is one that, alone or in combination with other concurrent projects nearby, is anticipated to cause sustained work zone impacts (as defined in § 630.1004) that are greater than what is considered tolerable based on State policy and engineering judgment.


(b) The applicability of the provisions in §§ 630.1012(b)(2) and 630.1012(b)(3) is dependent upon whether a project is determined to be significant. The State shall identify upcoming projects that are expected to be significant. This identification of significant projects should be done as early as possible in the project delivery and development process, and in cooperation with FHWA. The State's work zone policy provisions, the project's characteristics, and the magnitude and extent of the anticipated work zone impacts should be considered when determining if a project is significant or not.


(c) All Interstate system projects within the boundaries of a designated Transportation Management Area that require intermittent or continuous lane closures for 3 or more consecutive days shall be considered as significant projects.


(d) For an Interstate system project or categories of Interstate system projects that are classified as significant through the application of the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section but in the judgment of the State do not cause sustained work zone impacts, the State may request from FHWA an exception to §§ 630.1012(b)(2) and 630.1012(b)(3). The FHWA may grant exceptions to these provisions based on the State's ability to show that the specific Interstate system project or categories of Interstate system projects do not have sustained work zone impacts.


(e) Non-interstate system projects with less than 3 consecutive days of intermittent or continuous lane closures do not require the transportation operations (TO) or public information and outreach (PIO) components of a TMP (as described in §  630.1012(b)).






