# § 64.623   Administrator requirements.

(a) For the purposes of this section, the term “Administrator” shall refer to each of the TRS Numbering administrator, the administrator of the TRS User Registration Database, the administrator of the VRS Access Technology Reference Platform, and the provider of the Neutral Video Communication Service Platform. A single entity may serve in one or more of these capacities.


(b) *Neutrality.* (1) The Administrator shall be a non-governmental entity that is impartial and not an affiliate of any Internet-based TRS provider.


(2) Neither the Administrator nor any affiliate thereof shall issue a majority of its debt to, nor derive a majority of its revenues from, any Internet-based TRS provider.


(3) Neither the TRS Numbering administrator nor any affiliate thereof shall be unduly influenced, as determined by the North American Numbering Council, by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of TRS-related numbering administration and activities.


(4) None of the administrator of the TRS User Registration Database, the administrator of the VRS Access Technology Reference Platform, or the provider of the Neutral Video Communication Service Platform, nor any affiliates thereof, shall be unduly influenced, as determined by the Commission, by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of TRS-related activities.


(5) Any subcontractor that performs any function of any Administrator shall also meet the neutrality criteria applicable to such Administrator.


(c) *Terms of administration.* The Administrator shall administer pursuant to the terms of its contract.


(d) *Compensation.* The TRS Fund, as defined by § 64.604(a)(5)(iii) of this subpart, may be used to compensate the Administrator for the reasonable costs of administration pursuant to the terms of its contract.



---

[N] [78 FR 40609, July 5, 2013]




