# ยง 25.123   Applications for streamlined small spacecraft authorization.

(a) This section shall only apply to applicants for space stations that will operate beyond Earth's orbit and that are able to certify compliance with the certifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. For applicants seeking to be authorized under this section, a comprehensive proposal for Commission evaluation must be submitted for each space station in the proposed system on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule S, as described in ยง 25.114(a) through (c), together with the certifications described in paragraph (b) of this section and the requirements described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) Applicants filing for authorization under the streamlined procedure described in this section must include with their applications certifications that the following criteria will be met for all space stations to be operated under the license:


(1) The space station(s) will operate and be disposed of beyond Earth's orbit;


(2) The total lifetime from deployment to spacecraft end-of-life for any individual space station will be six years or less;


(3) Each space station will be identifiable by a unique signal-based telemetry marker distinguishing it from other space stations or space objects;


(4) The space station(s) will release no operational debris;


(5) No debris will be generated in an accidental explosion resulting from the conversion of energy sources on board the space station(s) into energy that fragments the spacecraft;


(6) The probability of a collision between each space station and any other large object (10 centimeters or larger) during the lifetime of the space station is 0.001 or less as calculated using current NASA software or higher fidelity models;


(7) Operation of the space station(s) will be compatible with existing operations in the authorized frequency band(s). Operations will not materially constrain future space station entrants from using the authorized frequency band(s);


(8) The space station(s) can be commanded by command originating from the ground to immediately cease transmissions and the licensee will have the capability to eliminate harmful interference when required under the terms of the license or other applicable regulations;


(9) Each space station is 10 cm or larger in its smallest dimension; and


(10) Each space station will have a mass of 500 kg or less, including any propellant.


(11) Upon receipt of a space situational awareness conjunction warning, the operator will review and take all possible steps to assess the collision risk, and will mitigate the collision risk if necessary. As appropriate, steps to assess and mitigate the collision risk should include, but are not limited to: Contacting the operator of any active spacecraft involved in such a warning; sharing ephemeris data and other appropriate operational information with any such operator; and modifying space station attitude and/or operations.


(c) Applicants must also provide the information specified in ยง 25.122(d) in narrative form.



---

[N] [85 FR 43734, July 20, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 52452, Aug. 25, 2020; 89 FR 65217, Aug. 9, 2024]








