# ยง 600.530   Pacific albacore fishery.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section regulates fishing by Canadian vessels under the 1981 Treaty Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada on Pacific Coast Albacore Tuna Vessels and Port Privileges as amended in 2002. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart F, fishing vessels of Canada may be authorized to fish in waters under the fisheries jurisdiction of the United States more than 12 nautical miles from the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured in accordance with the Treaty and this section, pursuant to Public Law 108-219 (118 Stat. 616; 16 U.S.C. 1821 note).


(b) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act and ยง 600.10, the terms used in this subpart have the following meanings:


*Fishing under the Treaty as amended in 2002* means to engage in fishing for albacore tuna in waters under the fisheries jurisdiction of the United States seaward of 12 nautical miles from the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured.


*Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator, Southwest Region, NMFS, 501 W. Ocean Boulevard, Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802-4213, or a designee.


*Reporting Office* means the office designated by the Regional Administrator to take hail-in and hail-out reports from U.S. and Canadian vessel operators.


*Treaty* means the 1981 Treaty Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada on Pacific Coast Albacore Tuna Vessels and Port Privileges as amended in 2002.


(c) *Vessel list.* A Canadian vessel is not eligible to fish for albacore in U.S. waters under the Treaty as amended in 2002 unless the vessel is on the list provided to NMFS by the Government of Canada of vessels authorized by Canada to fish under the Treaty as amended in 2002.


(d) *Vessel identification.* A Canadian vessel fishing under the Treaty as amended in 2002 must clearly display its Canadian vessel registration number followed by the letter C in the same height and size as the numerals, consistent with Canadian vessel marking requirements.


(e) *Hail-in reports.* The operator of a Canadian Vessel eligible to fish for albacore in U.S. waters under the Treaty as amended in 2002 must file a hail-in report with the Reporting Office at least 24 hours prior to beginning any such fishing.


(f) *Hail-out Reports.* The operator of a Canadian vessel that has been fishing in U.S. waters under the Treaty as amended in 2002 must file a hail-out report with the Reporting Office at least 24 hours prior to exiting from U.S. waters.


(g) *Prohibitions.* It is prohibited for the operator of a Canadian vessel to engage in fishing in U.S. waters if the vessel:


(1) Is not on the vessel list in paragraph (c) of this section;


(2) Has not filed a hail-in report to advise of an intent to fish under the Treaty as amended in 2002 prior to engaging in such fishing; or


(3) Is not clearly marked in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [69 FR 31535, June 4, 2004]




