# ยง 2422.3   What information should you include in your petition?

(a) You must file a petition either in writing with your signature or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at *www.flra.gov.* Your petition must provide the following information on a form designated by the Authority, or on a substantially similar form, or electronically using the eFiling system on the FLRA's Web site at *www.flra.gov:*

(1) The name and mailing address for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code.


(2) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each agency or activity affected by issues raised in the petition.


(3) The name and mailing address for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition, including street number, city, state and zip code. If a labor organization is affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included. If a labor organization is an exclusive representative of any of the employees affected by issues raised in the petition, the date of the recognition or certification and the date any collective bargaining agreement covering the unit will expire or when the most recent agreement did expire should be included, if known.


(4) The name, mailing address and work telephone number, fax number and email address (if known) of the contact person for each labor organization affected by issues raised in the petition.


(5) Your name and mailing address, including street number, city, state and zip code, and fax number and email address. If you are a labor organization affiliated with a national organization, the local designation and the national affiliation should both be included.


(6) A description of the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition. The description should generally indicate the geographic locations and the classifications of the employees included (or sought to be included) in, and excluded (or sought to be excluded) from, the unit.


(7) The approximate number of employees in the unit(s) affected by issues raised in the petition.


(8) A clear and concise statement of the issues raised by the petition and the results the petitioner seeks.


(9) A declaration by the person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that the contents of the petition are true and correct to the best of the person's knowledge and belief.


(10) The title, mailing address and telephone number of the person filing the petition.


(b) *Certification of compliance with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e).* A labor organization/petitioner complies with 5 U.S.C. 7111(e) by submitting to the agency or activity and to the Department of Labor a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives. By signing the petition form, the labor organization/petitioner certifies that it has submitted these documents to the activity or agency and to the Department of Labor.


(c) *Showing of interest supporting a representation petition (defined at 5 U.S.C. 2421.16).* When filing a petition requiring a showing of interest, you must:


(1) So indicate on the petition form;


(2) Submit with the petition a showing of interest of not less than thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the unit involved in the petition; and


(3) Include an alphabetical list of the names constituting the showing of interest.


(d) *Petition seeking dues allotment.* When there is no exclusive representative, a petition seeking certification for dues allotment must be accompanied by a showing of membership in the petitioner of not less than ten percent (10%) of the employees in the unit claimed to be appropriate. An alphabetical list of names constituting the showing of membership must be submitted.




