# ยง 86.113-27   Fuel specifications.

Use the fuels specified in 40 CFR part 1065 to perform valid tests, as follows:


(a) For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use vehicles will use.


(b) For diesel-fueled engines, use the ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.703 for emission testing.


(c) The following fuel requirements apply for gasoline-fueled engines:


(1) Use the appropriate E10 fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065.710(b) to demonstrate compliance with all exhaust, evaporative, and refueling emission standards under subpart S of this part.


(2) For vehicles certified for 50-state sale, you may instead use California Phase 3 gasoline (E10) as adopted in California's LEV III program as follows:


(i) You may use California Phase 3 gasoline (E10) as adopted in California's LEV III program for exhaust emission testing.


(ii) If you certify vehicles to LEV III evaporative emission standards with California Phase 3 gasoline (E10), you may use that collection of data to certify to evaporative emission standards. For evaporative emission testing with California test fuels, perform tests based on the test temperatures specified by the California Air Resources Board. Note that this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) does not apply for refueling, spitback, high-altitude, or leak testing.


(iii) If you certify using fuel meeting California's specifications, we may perform testing with E10 test fuel meeting either California or EPA specifications.


(d) Interim test fuel specifications apply for model years 2027 through 2029 as described in 40 CFR 600.117.


(e) Additional test fuel specifications apply as specified in subpart S of this part.





---

[N] [89 FR 28156, Apr. 18, 2024]










