# § 1.32-2   Earned income credit for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Limitations.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Married individuals.* No credit is allowed by section 32 in the case of an eligible individual who is married (within the meaning of section 7703 and the regulations thereunder) unless the individual and spouse file a single return jointly (a joint return) for the taxable year (see section 6013 and the regulations thereunder relating to joint returns of income tax by husband and wife). The requirements of the preceding sentence do not apply to an eligible individual who is not considered as married under section 7703(b) and the regulations thereunder (relating to certain married individuals living apart). 


(3) *Length of taxable year.* No credit is allowed by section 32 in the case of a taxable year covering a period of less than 12 months. However, the rule of the preceding sentence does not apply to a taxable year closed by reason of the death of the eligible individual. 


(c) *Definitions.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Earned income.* For purposes of this section, earned income is computed without regard to any community property laws which may otherwise be applicable. Earned income is reduced by any net loss in earnings from self-employment. Earned income does not include amounts received as a pension, an annuity, unemployment compensation, or workmen's compensation, or an amount to which section 871(a) and the regulations thereunder apply (relating to income of nonresident alien individuals not connected with United States business).


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Coordination of credit with advance payments*—(1) *Recapture of excess advance payments.* If any advance payment of earned income credit under section 3507 is made to an individual by an employer during any calendar year, then the total amount of these advance payments to the individual in that calendar year is treated as an additional amount of tax imposed (by chapter 1 of the Code) upon the individual on the tax return for the individual's last taxable year beginning in that calendar year. 


(2) *Reconciliation of payments advanced and credit allowed.* Any additional amount of tax under paragraph (e)(1) of this section is not treated as a tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of determining the amount of any credit (other than the earned income credit) allowable under part IV, subchapter A, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.



---

[N] [T.D. 7683, 45 FR 16175, Mar. 13, 1980. Redesignated by T.D. 8448, 57 FR 54923, Nov. 23, 1992; T.D. 9045, 68 FR 10656, Mar. 6, 2003] 




