# ยง 3.46   Proposed findings, conclusions, and order.

(a) *General.* Within 21 days of the closing of the hearing record, each party may file with the Secretary for consideration of the Administrative Law Judge proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and rule or order, together with reasons therefor and briefs in support thereof. Such proposals shall be in writing, shall be served upon all parties, and shall contain adequate references to the record and authorities relied on. If a party includes in the proposals information that has been granted *in camera* status pursuant to ยง 3.45(b), the party shall file 2 versions of the proposals in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง 3.45(e). Reply findings of fact, conclusions of law, and briefs may be filed by each party within 10 days of service of the initial proposed findings.


(b) *Exhibit index.* The first statement of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law filed by a party shall include an index listing for each exhibit offered by the party and received in evidence:


(1) The exhibit number, followed by


(2) The exhibit's title or a brief description if the exhibit is untitled;


(3) The transcript page at which the Administrative Law Judge ruled on the exhibit's admissibility or a citation to any written order in which such ruling was made;


(4) The transcript pages at which the exhibit is discussed;


(5) An identification of any other exhibit which summarizes the contents of the listed exhibit, or of any other exhibit of which the listed exhibit is a summary;


(6) A cross-reference, by exhibit number, to any other portions of that document admitted as a separate exhibit on motion by any other party; and


(7) A statement whether the exhibit has been accorded *in camera* treatment, and a citation to the *in camera* ruling.


(c) *Witness index.* The first statement of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law filed by a party shall also include an index to the witnesses called by that party, to include for each witness:


(1) The name of the witness;


(2) A brief identification of the witness;


(3) The transcript pages at which any testimony of the witness appears; and


(4) A statement whether the witness testimony has been accorded *in camera* treatment, and a citation to the *in camera* ruling.


(d) *Stipulated indices.* As an alternative to the filing of separate indices, the parties are encouraged to stipulate to joint exhibit and witness indices at the time the first statement of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law is due to be filed.




(e) *Rulings.* The record shall show the Administrative Law Judge's recommended ruling on each proposed finding and conclusion, except when the proposed order disposing of the proceeding otherwise informs the parties of the action taken.







---

[N] [74 FR 1833, Jan. 13, 2009, as amended at 80 FR 15162, Mar. 23, 2015; 88 FR 42876, July 5, 2023]




