# § 63.7121   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations standard?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 1 and 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 6 and 7 to this subpart.


(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each operating limit, opacity limit, and VE limit in Tables 2, 3 and 7 to this subpart that applies to you. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.7131.


(c) [Reserved] 




(d) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(g), consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e).




(e) For each PSH operation subject to an opacity limit as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and any vents from buildings subject to an opacity limit, you must conduct a VE check according to item 1 in Table 7 to this subpart, and as follows:


(1) Conduct visual inspections that consist of a visual survey of each stack or process emission point over the test period to identify if there are VE, other than condensed water vapor.


(2) Select a position at least 15 but not more 1,320 feet from the affected emission point with the sun or other light source generally at your back.


(3) The observer conducting the VE checks need not be certified to conduct EPA Method 9 in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter but must meet the training requirements as described in EPA Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.


(f) For existing lime kilns and their associated coolers, you may perform VE measurements in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to part 60 in lieu of installing a COMS or PM detector if any of the conditions in paragraphs (f)(1) or (3) of this section exist:


(1) You use a FF for PM control, and the FF is under positive pressure and has multiple stacks; or


(2) The control device exhausts through a monovent; or


(3) The installation of a COMS in accordance with PS-1 of appendix B to part 60 is infeasible.


(g) If you elect to comply with either the HCl emission limit or the mercury emission limit in table 9 to this subpart using emissions averaging in accordance with an implementation plan approved under the provisions in § 63.7114(c) you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) For lime kilns included in the emissions averaging group that are equipped with dry sorbent injection (DSI) or activated carbon injection (ACI) systems, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.7113(h).


(2) For kilns included in the emissions averaging group that use a control device or method other than DSI or ACI, you must comply with your site-specific monitoring plan of this section, in accordance with the requirements of § 63.7100(d).


(3) Calculate the monthly production-weighted average emission rate using the HCl or mercury emission rate determined during the last performance test and the actual production data for each kiln included in the emissions averaging option, as shown in equation 1 to this paragraph (g)(3).


(4) Until 12 monthly weighted average emission rates have been accumulated, the monthly weighted average emissions rate, calculated as shown in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, must not exceed the emission limit in table 9 to this subpart in any calendar month.


(5) After 12 monthly weighted average emission rates have been accumulated, for each subsequent calendar month, you must use equation 2 to this paragraph (g)(5) to calculate the 12-month rolling average of the monthly weighted average emission rates for the current month and the previous 11 months. The 12-month rolling weighted average emissions rate for the kilns included in the group must not exceed the emission limits in table 9 to this subpart.


(6) For those kilns that produce multiple types of lime in the HCl subcategory (*e.g.,* high calcium quick lime *and* dolomitic quick lime) you must establish a kiln-specific emission limit using equation 3 to this paragraph (g)(6).


(7) For those kilns that produce multiple types of lime in the HCl subcategory, after the close of each calendar month compliance with the kiln-specific emission limit developed in this paragraph (g) would be calculated using equation 4 to this paragraph (g)(7).


(8) For those kilns that produce multiple types of lime in the HCl subcategory, compliance using the emissions averaging provisions is demonstrated when E_K_, as determined using equation 4 to paragraph (g)(7) of this section, is less than E_LK_, as determined using equation 3 to paragraph (g)(6) of this section.





---

[N] [69 FR 416, Jan. 5, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 20467, Apr. 20, 2006; 85 FR 44979, July 24, 2020; 89 FR 57755, July 16, 2024; 89 FR 96110, Dec. 4, 2024]




