# § 62.10630   Identification of sources.

(a) *Approval of State Plan for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units.* Effective February 10, 2020, EPA approved Tennessee's State Plan for Commercial and Solid Waste Incineration Units, which is codified at Tennessee Operating Permit number 072397, as issued on May 10, 2017. The plan applies to each existing commercial and industrial solid waste incineration unit and air curtain incineration unit in the State of Tennessee that commenced construction on or before June 4, 2010, or commenced modification or construction after June 4, 2010, but no later than August 7, 2013, as such incineration units are defined in 40 CFR 60.2875 and 40 CFR part 60.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the material may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Docket Center—Public Reading Room, EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004 or U.S. EPA, Region 4, Air Analysis and Support Branch, 61 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, GA 30303. The telephone number for the Public Reading Room is (202) 566-1744. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of Tennessee, Air Pollution Control Board, Department of Environment and Conservation.


(i) Permit Number 072397, Issued to Eastman Chemical Company, Tennessee Operation (MSOP-02), Date Issued May 10, 2017.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [85 FR 1125, Jan. 9, 2020]






