# § 60.4930   What definitions must I know?

Terms used but not defined in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act and § 60.2.


*Affected source* means a sewage sludge incineration unit as defined in § 60.4930.


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Auxiliary fuel* means natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil, or diesel fuel.


*Bag leak detection system* means an instrument that is capable of monitoring particulate matter loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter (*i.e.,* baghouse) in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other principle to monitor relative particulate matter loadings.


*Bypass stack* means a device used for discharging combustion gases to avoid severe damage to the air pollution control device or other equipment.


*Calendar year* means 365 consecutive days starting on January 1 and ending on December 31.


*Continuous automated sampling system* means the total equipment and procedures for automated sample collection and sample recovery/analysis to determine a pollutant concentration or emission rate by collecting a single integrated sample(s) or multiple integrated sample(s) of the pollutant (or diluent gas) for subsequent on- or off-site analysis; integrated sample(s) collected are representative of the emissions for the sample time as specified by the applicable requirement.


*Continuous emissions monitoring system* means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility.


*Continuous monitoring system* (CMS) means a continuous emissions monitoring system, continuous automated sampling system, continuous parameter monitoring system, or other manual or automatic monitoring that is used for demonstrating compliance with an applicable regulation on a continuous basis as defined by this subpart. The term refers to the total equipment used to sample and condition (if applicable), to analyze, and to provide a permanent record of emissions or process parameters.


*Continuous parameter monitoring system* means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording operating conditions associated with air pollution control device systems (*e.g.,* operating temperature, pressure, and power).


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limit, operating limit, or operator qualification and accessibility requirements.


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit.


*Dioxins/furans* means tetra- through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.


*Electrostatic precipitator or wet electrostatic precipitator* means an air pollution control device that uses both electrical forces and, if applicable, water to remove pollutants in the exit gas from a sewage sludge incinerator stack.


*Existing sewage sludge incineration unit* means a sewage sludge incineration unit the construction of which is commenced on or before October 14, 2010.


*Fabric filter* means an add-on air pollution control device used to capture particulate matter by filtering gas streams through filter media, also known as a baghouse.


*Fluidized bed incinerator* means an enclosed device in which organic matter and inorganic matter in sewage sludge are combusted in a bed of particles suspended in the combustion chamber gas.


*Malfunction* means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control and monitoring equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.


*Modification* means a change to an existing SSI unit later than September 21, 2011 and that meets one of two criteria:


(1) The cumulative cost of the changes over the life of the unit exceeds 50 percent of the original cost of building and installing the SSI unit (not including the cost of land) updated to current costs (current dollars). To determine what systems are within the boundary of the SSI unit used to calculate these costs, see the definition of SSI unit.


(2) Any physical change in the SSI unit or change in the method of operating it that increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted for which section 129 or section 111 of the Clean Air Act has established standards.


*Modified sewage sludge incineration (SSI) unit* means an existing SSI unit that undergoes a modification, as defined in this section.


*Multiple hearth incinerator* means a circular steel furnace that contains a number of solid refractory hearths and a central rotating shaft; rabble arms that are designed to slowly rake the sludge on the hearth are attached to the rotating shaft. Dewatered sludge enters at the top and proceeds downward through the furnace from hearth to hearth, pushed along by the rabble arms.


*New sewage sludge incineration unit* means a SSI unit the construction of which is commenced after October 14, 2010 which would be applicable to such unit or a modified solid waste incineration unit.


*Operating day* means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any amount of sewage sludge is combusted at any time in the SSI unit.


*Particulate matter* means filterable particulate matter emitted from SSI units as measured by Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Methods 26A or 29 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8.


*Power input to the electrostatic precipitator* means the product of the test-run average secondary voltage and the test-run average secondary amperage to the electrostatic precipitator collection plates.


*Process change* means a significant permit revision, but only with respect to those pollutant-specific emission units for which the proposed permit revision is applicable, including but not limited to:


(1) A change in the process employed at the wastewater treatment facility associated with the affected SSI unit (*e.g.,* the addition of tertiary treatment at the facility, which changes the method used for disposing of process solids and processing of the sludge prior to incineration).


(2) A change in the air pollution control devices used to comply with the emission limits for the affected SSI unit (*e.g.,* change in the sorbent used for activated carbon injection).


*Sewage sludge* means solid, semi-solid, or liquid residue generated during the treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works. Sewage sludge includes, but is not limited to, domestic septage; scum or solids removed in primary, secondary, or advanced wastewater treatment processes; and a material derived from sewage sludge. Sewage sludge does not include ash generated during the firing of sewage sludge in a sewage sludge incineration unit or grit and screenings generated during preliminary treatment of domestic sewage in a treatment works.


*Sewage sludge feed rate* means the rate at which sewage sludge is fed into the incinerator unit.


*Sewage sludge incineration (SSI) unit* means an incineration unit combusting sewage sludge for the purpose of reducing the volume of the sewage sludge by removing combustible matter. Sewage sludge incineration unit designs include fluidized bed and multiple hearth. A SSI unit also includes, but is not limited to, the sewage sludge feed system, auxiliary fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, waste heat recovery equipment, if any, and bottom ash system. The SSI unit includes all ash handling systems connected to the bottom ash handling system. The combustion unit bottom ash system ends at the truck loading station or similar equipment that transfers the ash to final disposal. The SSI unit does not include air pollution control equipment or the stack.


*Shutdown* means the period of time after all sewage sludge has been combusted in the primary chamber.


*Solid waste* means any garbage, refuse, sewage sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, agricultural operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1342), or source, special nuclear, or byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2014).


*Standard conditions,* when referring to units of measure, means a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and a pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.3 kilopascals).


*Startup* means the period of time between the activation, including the firing of fuels (*e.g.,* natural gas or distillate oil), of the system and the first feed to the unit.


*Toxic equivalency* means the product of the concentration of an individual dioxin isomer in an environmental mixture and the corresponding estimate of the compound-specific toxicity relative to tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin, referred to as the toxic equivalency factor for that compound. Table 4 to this subpart lists the toxic equivalency factors.


*Wet scrubber* means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an aqueous or alkaline scrubbing liquid to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.


*You* means the owner or operator of a SSI unit that meets the criteria in § 60.4770.







