# ยง 1200.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Act* means the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-412, 108 Stat. 4239, 25 U.S.C. 4001). 


*Agency Superintendent* means the official in charge of a Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency. 


*Bureau* or *BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. 


*Department* or *DOI* means the Department of the Interior. 


*Fiduciary Trust Officer* means the designated OST official at the agency or regional office.


*General Counsel* means the attorney for the tribe. 


*OST* means the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior. 


*Regional Director* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs official in charge of a Regional Office.


*Resolution* means the formal manner in which a tribal government expresses its legislative will. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee. 


*Solicitor* means the Office of the Solicitor, Department of the Interior. 


*Special Trustee* means the Special Trustee for American Indians appointed under title III of the Act. 


*Tribal council* means the elected or appointed governing officials of any tribe which is recognized by the Secretary. 


*Tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which is federally recognized by the U.S. Government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians. For this purpose, it also means two or more tribes joined for any purpose, the joint assets of which include funds held in trust by the Secretary. An example of this would be the KCA (consisting of the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Tribes). 


*Us* means the Department of the Interior, i.e., the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee. 


*We* means the Department of the Interior, i.e., the Secretary of the Interior or his/her designee. 



---

[N] [61 FR 67932, Dec. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 15339, Mar. 28, 2006]




