# § 141.861   Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) *Reporting*—(1) *E. coli.* (i) A system must notify the State by the end of the day when the system learns of an *E. coli* MCL violation, unless the system learns of the violation after the State office is closed and the State does not have either an after-hours phone line or an alternative notification procedure, in which case the system must notify the State before the end of the next business day, and notify the public in accordance with subpart Q of this part.


(ii) A system must notify the State by the end of the day when the system is notified of an *E. coli-*positive routine sample, unless the system is notified of the result after the State office is closed and the State does not have either an after-hours phone line or an alternative notification procedure, in which case the system must notify the State before the end of the next business day.


(2) A system that has violated the treatment technique for coliforms in § 141.859 must report the violation to the State no later than the end of the next business day after it learns of the violation, and notify the public in accordance with subpart Q of this part.


(3) A system required to conduct an assessment under the provisions of § 141.859 of this part must submit the assessment report within 30 days. The system must notify the State in accordance with § 141.859(c) when each scheduled corrective action is completed for corrections not completed by the time of submission of the assessment form.


(4) A system that has failed to comply with a coliform monitoring requirement must report the monitoring violation to the State within 10 days after the system discovers the violation, and notify the public in accordance with subpart Q of this part.


(5) A seasonal system must certify, prior to serving water to the public, that it has complied with the State-approved start-up procedure.


(b) *Recordkeeping.* (1) The system must maintain any assessment form, regardless of who conducts the assessment, and documentation of corrective actions completed as a result of those assessments, or other available summary documentation of the sanitary defects and corrective actions taken under § 141.859 for State review. This record must be maintained by the system for a period not less than five years after completion of the assessment or corrective action.


(2) The system must maintain a record of any repeat sample taken that meets State criteria for an extension of the 24-hour period for collecting repeat samples as provided for under § 141.858(a)(1) of this part.



---

[N] [78 FR 10354, Feb. 13, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 10670, Feb. 26, 2014]












