# § 520.1242g   Levamisole resinate and famphur paste.

(a) *Specifications.* The drug is a paste containing 11.6 percent levamisole resinate (50 percent potency) and 23.6 percent famphur. 


(b) *Sponsor.* See 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Special considerations.* Do not use any cholinesterase-inhibiting drugs, pesticides, insecticides, or chemicals on cattle simultaneously or within a few days before or after treatment with this product. 


(d) *Related tolerances.* See §§ 556.273 and 556.350 of this chapter.


(e) *Conditions of use in cattle*—(1) *Amount.* 8 milligrams of levamisole hydrochloride (equivalent) and 30 milligrams of famphur activity per kilogram of body weight. 


(2) *Indications for use.* For treatment of cattle infected with the following parasites: Stomach worms (*Haemonchus, Trichostrongylus, Ostertagia*), intestinal worms (*Trichostrongylus, Cooperia, Nematodirus, Bunostomum, Oesophagostomum*), lungworms (*Dictyocaulus*), cattle grubs (*Hypoderma*), biting lice (*Bovicola*), and sucking lice (*Linognathus, Solenoptes*). 


(3) *Limitations.* Drug is not effective against lice eggs. Conditions of constant helminth and ectoparasitic exposure may require retreatment within 2 to 4 weeks after first treatment. Do not administer to cattle within 19 days of slaughter. Do not administer to dairy animals of breeding age. Do not use in calves less than 3 months old, or in debilitated animals. Do not treat Brahman bulls. Consult your veterinarian for assistance in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [53 FR 23757, June 24, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 1353, Jan. 13, 1989; 57 FR 7652, Mar. 4, 1992; 62 FR 55160, Oct. 23, 1997; 62 FR 61625, Nov. 19, 1997; 78 FR 28823, May 20, 2014]




