# ยง 100.100   What terms I should know for this part?

*Appraisal* means a written statement independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion of defined value of an adequately described property as of a specific date, supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information.


*Appraiser* means one who is expected to perform an appraisal or valuation competently and in a manner that is independent, impartial, and objective.


*Indian* means:


(1) Any person who is a member of any Indian tribe, is eligible to become a member of any Indian tribe, or is an owner as of October 27, 2004, of a trust or restricted interest in land;


(2) Any person meeting the definition of Indian under the Indian Reorganization Act (25 U.S.C. 479) and the regulations promulgated thereunder; or


(3) With respect to the inheritance and ownership of trust or restricted land in the State of California under 25 U.S.C. 2206, any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition or any person who owns a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of such land in that State.


*Indian property* means trust property or restricted property.


*Indian tribe* means an Indian tribe under section 102 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a).


*Land Buy-Back Program for Tribal Nations* means the program implementing the land consolidation provisions of the settlement agreement in *Cobell* v. *Salazar,* No. 1:96CV01285-JR (D.D.C.), as confirmed by Congress in the Claims Resolution Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-291).


*Qualified appraiser* means an appraiser that is authorized to prepare an appraisal or valuation of Indian property because he or she meets the minimum qualifications of this part.


*Qualifications statement* means a written overview of an appraiser's education, professional history and job qualifications, providing an indication of an appraiser's competency to perform specific types of assignments. The qualifications may include information regarding education (degrees and educational institutions or programs); professional affiliations, designations, certifications, and licenses; work experience (including companies or organizations, the dates of employment, job titles and duties, and any service as an expert witness); awards and publications; types of properties appraised; types of appraisal and valuation assignments; and clients.


*Restricted property* means lands, natural resources, or other assets owned by Indian tribes or individual Indians that can only be alienated or encumbered with the approval of the United States because of limitations contained in the conveyance instrument, or limitations in Federal law.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.


*Trust property* means lands, natural resources, or other assets held by the United States in trust for Indian tribes or individual Indians.


*Us/we/our* means the bureau, agency, or entity within the Department of the Interior that administers appraisals and valuations of Indian property.


*Valuation* means all other valuation methods or a market analysis, such as a general description of market trends, values, or benchmarks, prepared by a qualified appraiser.




