# § 165.561   Security Zones; Lewes and Rehoboth Canal and Atlantic Ocean, Rehoboth Beach, DE.

(a) *Location.* The following areas are security zones; these coordinates are based on North American Datum 83 (NAD83):


(1) *Security zone one:* All waters of the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal bounded on the north by a line drawn from 38° 44.35′ North Latitude (N), 075°5.32′ West Longitude (W), thence easterly to 38°44.37′ N, 075°5.31′ W proceeding from shoreline to shoreline on the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal in a Southeasterly direction where it is bounded by a line drawn from 38°43.89′ N, 075°5.31′ W, thence easterly to 38°43.90′ N, 075°5.07′ W thence northerly across the entrance to the yacht basin to 38°43.93′ N, 075° 5.09′ W.


(2) *Security zone two:* All waters of the Atlantic Ocean extending 500 yards seaward from a line beginning at 38°44.86′ N, 075°4.86′ W, proceeding southerly along the shoreline to 38°43.97′ N, 075°4.70′ W.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Delaware Bay (COTP) in the enforcement of the security zone.


*USSS protectee* means any person for whom the United States Secret Service requests implementation of a security zone in order to supplement protection of said person(s).


*Official patrol vessel* means any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, State, or local law enforcement vessel assigned or approved by the COTP.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations contained in §  165.33 of this part, entry into or movement within this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP, Sector Delaware Bay, or designated representative.


(2) Entry into or remaining in a security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP or designated representative when the security zones are being enforced. At the start of each enforcement, all persons and vessels within the security zone must depart the zones immediately or obtain authorization from the COTP or designated representative to remain within either zone. All vessels authorized to remain in the zone(s) must proceed as directed by the COTP or designated representative.


(3) A person or vessel operator who intends to enter or transit the security zones while the zones are being enforced must obtain authorization from the COTP or designated representative. While the zones are being enforced the COTP or designated representative will determine access to the zones on a case-by-case basis. A person or vessel operator requesting permission to enter or transit the security zone may contact the COTP or designated representative at 215-271-4807 or on marine band radio VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz), or by visually or verbally hailing the on-scene law enforcement vessel enforcing the zone. On-scene Coast Guard personnel enforcing this section can be contacted on marine band radio, VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHz). The operator of a vessel must proceed as directed upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel, or other Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency vessel, by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means. When authorized by the COTP or designated representative to enter the security zone all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP or designated representative and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the security zone.


(4) Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel, or other Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency vessel, by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, a person or operator of a vessel must proceed as directed. Failure to comply with lawful direction may result in expulsion from the regulated area, citation for failure to comply, or both.


(5) Unless specifically authorized by on-scene enforcement vessels, no vessel or person will be permitted to stop or anchor in the security zone. A vessel granted permission to enter or transit within the security zone(s) must do so without delay or pause for the entirety of its time within the boundaries of the security zone(s). At times, for limited duration, it is anticipated that vessels may be prohibited from entering the zone due to movement of persons protected by USSS. During those times, the Coast Guard will provide actual notice to vessels in the area.


(6) The U.S. Coast Guard may secure the entirety of either or both security zones if deemed necessary to address security threats or concerns.


(7) The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted by Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies in the patrol and enforcement of the security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Enforcement.* (1) The Coast Guard activates the security zones when requested by the U.S. Secret Service for the protection of individuals who qualify for protection under 18 U.S.C 3056(a) or Presidential memorandum. The COTP will provide the public with notice of enforcement of security zone by Broadcast Notice to Mariners (BNM), information release at the website: *https://homeport.uscg.mil/my-homeport/coast-guard-prevention/waterway-management?cotpid=40* as well as on-scene notice by designated representative or other appropriate means in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7.


(2) These security zones may be enforced individually or simultaneously.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0208, 86 FR 47579, Aug. 26, 2021]




