# § 881.201   Definitions.

*Agreement.* (Agreement to Enter into Housing Assistance Payments Contract) The Agreement between the owner and the contract administrator which provides that, upon satisfactory completion of the project in accordance with the HUD-approved final proposal, the administrator will enter into the Contract with the owner. 


*Annual Contributions Contract (ACC).* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Annual income.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Assisted unit.* A dwelling unit eligible for assistance under a Contract. 


*Contract.* (Housing Assistance Payments Contract) The Contract entered into by the owner and the contract administrator upon satisfactory completion of the project, which sets forth the rights and duties of the parties with respect to the project and the payments under the Contract. 


*Contract Administrator.* The entity which enters into the Contract with the owner and is responsible for monitoring performance by the owner. The contract administrator is a PHA in the case of private-owner/PHA projects, and HUD is private-owner/HUD and PHA-owner/HUD projects. 


*Contract rent.* The total amount of rent specified in the contract as payable to the owner for a unit. 


*Decent, safe, and sanitary.* Housing is decent, safe, and sanitary if it meets the physical condition requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.


*Elderly family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Fair Market Rent (FMR).* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Final proposal.* The detailed description of a proposed project to be assisted under this part, which an owner submits after selection of the preliminary proposal, except where a preliminary proposal is not required under § 881.303(c). The final proposal becomes an exhibit to the Agreement and is the standard by which HUD judges acceptable construction of the project. 


*Housing assistance payment.* The payment made by the contract administrator to the owner of an assisted unit as provided in the contract. Where the unit is leased to an eligible family, the payment is the difference between the contract rent and the tenant rent. An additional payment is made to the family when the utility allowance is greater than the total tenant payment. A housing assistance payment, known as a “vacancy payment”. may be made to the owner when an assisted unit is vacant, in accordance with the terms of the contract. 


*HUD.* Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Independent Public Accountant.* A Certified Public Accountant or a licensed or registered public accountant, having no business relationship with the owner except for the performance of audit, systems work and tax preparation. If not certified, the Independent Public Accountant must have been licensed or registered by a regulatory authority of a State or other political subdivision of the United States on or before December 31, 1970. In States that do not regulate the use of the title “public accountant,” only Certified Public Accountants may be used.


*Low income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*NOFA.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Owner.* Any private person or entity (including a cooperative) or a public entity which qualifies as a PHA, having the legal right to lease or sublease substantially rehabilitated dwelling units assisted under this part. The term owner also includes the person or entity submitting a proposal under this part.


*Partially-assisted Project.* A project for non-elderly families under this part which includes more than 50 units of which 20 percent or fewer are assisted.


*PHA-Owner/HUD Project.* A project under this part which is owned by a PHA. For this type of project, the Agreement and the Contract are entered into by the PHA, as owner, and HUD, as contract administrator.


*Private-Owner/HUD Project.* A project under this part which is owned by a private owner. For this type of project, the Agreement and Contract are entered into by the private owner, as owner, and HUD, as contract administrator.


*Private-Owner/PHA Project.* A project under this part which is owned by a private owner. For this type of project, the Agreement and Contract are entered into by the private owner, as owner, and the PHA, as contract administrator, pursuant to an ACC between the PHA and HUD. The term also covers the situation where the ACC is with one PHA and the owner is another PHA.


*Project Account.* A specifically identified and segregated account for each project which is established in accordance with § 881.503(b) out of the amounts by which the maximum annual commitment exceeds the amount actually paid out under the Contract or ACC, as applicable, each year.


*Public Housing Agency (PHA).* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Rent.* In the case of an assisted unit in a cooperative project, rent means the carrying charges payable to the cooperative with respect to occupancy of the unit.


*Replacement cost.* The sum of the “as is” value before rehabilitation of the property as determined by HUD and the estimated cost of rehabilitation, including carrying and finance charges.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (or designee).


*Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Housing.* A unit for occupancy by a single eligible individual capable of independent living, which does not contain food preparation and/or sanitary facilities and is located within a multifamily structure consisting of more than 12 units.


*Small project.* A project for non-elderly families under this part which includes a total of 50 or fewer (assisted and unassisted) units.


*Substantial rehabilitation.* (a) The improvement of a property to decent, safe and sanitary condition in accordance with the standards of this part from a condition below those standards. Substantial rehabilitation may vary in degree from gutting and extensive reconstruction to the cure of substantial accumulation of deferred maintenance. Cosmetic improvements alone do not qualify as substantial rehabilitation under this definition.


(b) Substantial rehabilitation may also include renovation, alteration or remodeling for the conversion or adaptation of structurally sound property to the design and condition required for use under this part or the repair or replacement of major building systems or components in danger of failure.


*Tenant rent.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Total tenant payment.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility allowance.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility reimbursement.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Vacancy payment.* The housing assistance payment made to the owner by the contract administrator for a vacant assisted unit if certain conditions are fulfilled as provided in the Contract. The amount of the vacancy payment varies with the length of the vacancy period and is less after the first 60 days of any vacancy. 


*Very low income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 



---

[N] [45 FR 7085, Jan. 31, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 12705, Mar. 28, 1983; 49 FR 17449, Apr. 24, 1984; 49 FR 19944, May 10, 1984; 61 FR 5212, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 13591, Mar. 27, 1996; 63 FR 46578, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16722, Mar. 29, 2000]




