# ยง 3430.19   Resubmission of an application.

(a) *Previously unfunded applications.* (1) Applications that are resubmitted to a program, after being previously submitted but not funded by that program, must include the following information:


(i) The NIFA-assigned proposal number of the previously submitted application.


(ii) Summary of the previous reviewers' comments.


(iii) Explanation of how the previous reviewers' comments or previous panel summary have been addressed in the current application.


(2) Resubmitting an application that has been revised based on previous reviewers' critiques does not guarantee the application will be recommended for funding.


(b) *Previously funded applications.* (1) NIFA competitive programs are generally not designed to support multiple Federal assistance awards activities that are essentially repetitive in nature. PDs who have had their projects funded previously are discouraged from resubmitting relatively identical applications for further funding. Applications that are sequential continuations or new stages of previously funded projects must compete with first-time applications, and should thoroughly demonstrate how the proposed project expands substantially on previously funded efforts and promotes innovation and creativity beyond the scope of the previously funded project.


(2) An application may be submitted only once to NIFA. The submission of duplicative or substantially similar applications concurrently for review by more than one program will result in the exclusion of the redundant applications from NIFA consideration.




