# § 1962.3   Authorities and responsibilities.

(a) *Redelegation of authority.* Authority will be redelegated to the maximum extent possible consistent with program requirements and available resources. The State Director, District Director and County Supervisor are authorized to redelegate, in writing, any authority delegated to them in this subpart to any employee determined by them to be qualified.


(b) *Responsibilities*—(1) *Rural Development personnel.* The State Director, District Director and County Supervisor are responsible for carrying out the policies and procedures in this subpart.


(2) *Borrower.* The borrower is responsible for repaying the loans, maintaining, protecting, and accounting to Rural Development for all chattel security, and complying with all other requirements specified in promissory notes, security instruments, and related documents.


(c) *Exception authority.* The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law if the Administrator determines that application of the requirement or provision would adversely affect the Government's interest. The Administrator will exercise this auhority only at the request of the State Director and on the recommendation of the appropriate program Assistant Administrator. Requests for exceptions must be made in writing by the State Director and supported with documentation to explain the adverse effect on the Government's interest, propose alternative courses of action, and show how the adverse effect will be eliminated or minimized if the exception is granted.


(d) *Farms in more than one jurisdiction.* If the farm is situated in more than one State, County, or Parish, the loan will be serviced by the County Office serving the County in which the borrower's residence is located. If the borrower is a corporation, cooperative, partnership or joint operation is the borrower's residence is not on the farm, the loan will be serviced by the County Office serving the County in which the farm or a major portion of the farm is located.



---

[N] [50 FR 45783, Nov. 1, 1985, as amended at 51 FR 13480, Apr. 21, 1986]




