# § 746.9   Syria.

Sections 5(a)(1) and 5(a)(2)(A) of the Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2003 (Pub. L. 108-175, codified as a note to 22 U.S.C. 2151) (the SAA) require a prohibition on the export to Syria of all items on the Commerce Control List (in 15 CFR part 774) (CCL) and a prohibition on the export to Syria of products of the United States, other than food and medicine. The President also exercised national security waiver authority pursuant to Section 5(b) of the SAA for certain transactions. The provisions in this section were issued consistent with Executive Order 13338 of May 11, 2004 which implemented the SAA.


(a) *License requirements.* A license is required for the export or reexport to Syria of all items subject to the EAR, except food and medicine classified as EAR99 (food and medicine are defined in part 772 of the EAR). A license is required for the deemed export and deemed reexport, as described in §§ 734.13(b) and 734.14(b) of the EAR, respectively, of any technology or source code on the Commerce Control List (CCL) to a Syrian foreign national. Deemed exports and deemed reexports to Syrian foreign nationals involving technology or source code subject to the EAR but not listed on the CCL do not require a license.


(b) *License Exceptions.* No License Exceptions to the license requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section are available for exports or reexports to Syria, except the following:


(1) TMP for items for use by the news media as set forth in § 740.9(a)(9) of the EAR,


(2) GOV for items for personal or official use by personnel and agencies of the U.S. Government as set forth in § 740.11(b)(2) of the EAR,


(3) TSU for operation technology and software, sales technology, and software updates pursuant to the terms of § 740.13(a), (b), or (c) of the EAR,


(4) BAG for exports of personally-owned items by individuals leaving the United States as personal baggage pursuant to the terms of § 740.14(a) through (d), only, of the EAR, and


(5) AVS for the temporary sojourn of civil aircraft reexported to Syria pursuant to the terms of § 740.15(a)(4) of the EAR.


(c) *Licensing policy.* (1) Except as described in this paragraph (c), all license applications for export or reexport to Syria are subject to a general policy of denial. License applications for “deemed exports” and “deemed reexports” of technology and source code will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. BIS may consider, on a case-by-case basis, license applications for exports and reexports of items necessary to carry out the President's constitutional authority to conduct U.S. foreign affairs and as Commander-in-Chief, including exports and reexports of items necessary for the performance of official functions by the United States Government personnel abroad.


(2) BIS may also consider the following license applications on a case-by-case basis: items in support of activities, diplomatic or otherwise, of the United States Government (to the extent that regulation of such exportation or reexportation would not fall within the President's constitutional authority to conduct the nation's foreign affairs); medicine (on the CCL) and medical devices (both as defined in part 772 of the EAR); parts and components intended to ensure the safety of civil aviation and the safe operation of commercial passenger aircraft; aircraft chartered by the Syrian Government for the transport of Syrian Government officials on official Syrian Government business; telecommunications equipment and associated computers, software and technology; items in support of United Nations operations in Syria; and items necessary for the support of the Syrian people, including, but not limited to, items related to water supply and sanitation, agricultural production and food processing, power generation, oil and gas production, construction and engineering, transportation, and educational infrastructure. The total dollar value of each approved license for aircraft parts for flight safety normally will be limited to no more than $2 million over the 24-month standard license term, except in the case of complete overhauls.


(3) In addition, consistent with part 734 of the EAR, the following are not subject to the EAR and therefore not subject to this General Order: informational materials in the form of books and other media; publicly available software and technology; and technology exported in the form of a patent application or an amendment, modification, or supplement thereto or a division thereof (see 15 CFR 734.3(b)(1)(v), (b)(2) and (b)(3)).



---

[N] [76 FR 77117, Dec. 12, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 43973, July 23, 2013; 79 FR 32625, June 5, 2014; 82 FR 61157, Dec. 27, 2017]




