# ยง 112.12   Effect on other regulations; forms and instructions.

(a) *Effect on other regulations.* All regulations, orders or like directions heretofore issued by SBA which impose requirements designed to prohibit any discrimination against individuals on the grounds of race, color, or national origin and which authorize the suspension or termination of or refusal to grant to or to continue financial assistance to any applicant for or recipient of such assistance for failure to comply with such requirements, are hereby superseded to the extent that such discrimination is prohibited by this part, except that nothing in this part shall be deemed to relieve any person of any obligation assumed or imposed under any such superseded regulation, order, instruction, or like direction prior to the effective date of this part. Nothing in this part, however, shall be deemed to supersede any of the following (including future amendments thereof): 


(1) Executive Order 11246 and regulations issued thereunder, or (2) any other orders, regulations or instructions, insofar as such order, regulations, or instructions prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, color, or national origin in any program or situation to which this part is inapplicable or prohibit discrimination on any other ground. 


(b) *Forms and instructions.* SBA shall issue and promptly make available to interested persons forms and detailed instructions and procedures for effectuating this part. 


(c) *Supervision and coordination.* The Administrator may from time to time assign to officials of SBA or to officials of other agencies of the Government with the consent of such agencies, responsibilities in connection with the effectuation of the purpose of Title VI of the Act and this part (other than responsibility for final decision as provided in ยง 112.13), including the achievement of effective coordination and maximum uniformity within SBA and within the Executive Branch of the Government in the application of Title VI and this part to similar programs and in similar situations. Any action taken, determination made, or requirement imposed by an official of another Department or agency acting pursuant to an assignment of responsibility under this subsection shall have the same effect as though such action had been taken by the Administrator of SBA. 



---

[N] [30 FR 298, Jan. 9, 1965, as amended at 38 FR 17935, July 5, 1973. Redesignated at 49 FR 33629, Aug. 24, 1984] 




