# ยง 110.1   Definitions.

Terms not defined in this section have the same meaning given by the Section 311 of the Act. As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated below:


*Act* means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.,* also known as the Clean Water Act;


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA);


*Applicable water quality standards* means State water quality standards adopted by the State pursuant to section 303 of the Act or promulgated by EPA pursuant to that section;


*MARPOL 73/78* means the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, Annex I, which regulates pollution from oil and which entered into force on October 2, 1983;


*Navigable waters* means waters of the United States, including the territorial seas, as defined in ยง 120.2 of this chapter.


*NPDES* means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;


*Sheen* means an iridescent appearance on the surface of water;


*Sludge* means an aggregate of oil or oil and other matter of any kind in any form other than dredged spoil having a combined specific gravity equivalent to or greater than water;


*United States* means the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands;



---

[N] [52 FR 10719, Apr. 2, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 45039, Aug. 25, 1993; 61 FR 7421, Feb. 28, 1996; 80 FR 37106, June 29, 2015; 83 FR 5208, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 56667, Oct. 22, 2019; 85 FR 22339, Apr. 21, 2020]




