# § 890.5150   Powered patient transport.

(a) *Powered patient stairway chair lifts*—(1) *Identification.* A powered patient stairway chair lift is a motorized lift equipped with a seat and permanently mounted in one location that is intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by moving a person up and down a stairway.


(2) *Classification.* Class II. The stairway chair lift is exempt from premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter, subject to § 890.9 and the following conditions for exemption:


(i) Appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently FDA-recognized edition of American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) A18.1 “Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chair Lifts”) must demonstrate that the safety controls are adequate to prevent a free fall of the chair in the event of a device failure;


(ii) Appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing must demonstrate the ability of the device, including armrests, to withstand the rated load with an appropriate factor of safety;


(iii) Appropriate restraints must be provided to prevent the user from falling from the device (such as that outlined in the currently FDA-recognized edition of ASME A18.1 “Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chair Lifts”);


(iv) Appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing (such as that outlined in the currently FDA-recognized editions of AAMI/ANSI/IEC 60601-1-2, “Medical Electrical Equipment—Part 1-2: General Requirements for Safety—Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic Compatibility—Requirements and Tests,” and ASME A18.1 “Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chair Lifts”) must validate electromagnetic compatibility and electrical safety; and


(v) Appropriate analysis and nonclinical testing must demonstrate the resistance of the device upholstery to ignition.


(b) *All other powered patient transport*—(1) *Identification.* A powered patient transport is a motorized device intended for use in mitigating mobility impairment caused by injury or other disease by moving a person from one location or level to another, such as up and down flights of stairs (e.g., attendant-operated portable stair-climbing chairs). This generic type of device does not include motorized three-wheeled vehicles or wheelchairs.


(2) *Classification.* Class II.



---

[N] [78 FR 14017, Mar. 4, 2013]




