# ยง 177.10   Publication of decisions.

(a) *Generally.* Within 90 days after issuing any interpretive decision under the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, relating to any Customs transaction (prospective, current, or completed), the Customs Service shall publish the decision in the Customs Bulletin or otherwise make it available for public inspection. For purposes of this paragraph an interpretive decision includes any ruling letter, internal advice memorandum, or protest review decision. Disclosure is governed by 31 CFR part 1, 19 CFR part 103, and 19 CFR 177.8(a)(3). 


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Changes of practice.* Before the publication of a ruling which has the effect of changing an established and uniform practice and which results in the assessment of a higher rate of duty within the meaning of 19 U.S.C. 1315(d), notice that the practice (or prior ruling on which that practice was based) is under review will be published in the _Federal Register_ and interested parties will be given an opportunity to make written submissions with respect to the correctness of the contemplated change. 


(d) *Limiting rulings.* A published ruling may limit the application of a court decision to the specific article under litigation, or to an article of a specific class or kind of such merchandise, or to the particular circumstances or entries which were the subject of the litigation. 


(e) *Effective dates.* Except as otherwise provided in ยง 177.12(e) or in the ruling itself, all rulings published under the provisions of this part will be applied immediately. If the ruling involves merchandise, it will be applicable to all unliquidated entries, except that a change of practice resulting in the assessment of a higher rate of duty or increased duties shall be effective only as to merchandise entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after the 90th day after publication of the change in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [T.D. 75-186, 40 FR 31929, July 30, 1975, as amended by T.D. 78-394, 43 FR 49792, Oct. 25, 1978; T.D. 89-74, 54 FR 31517, July 31, 1989; T.D. 02-49, 67 FR 53496, Aug. 16, 2002]




