# ยง 721.11380   Silsesquioxanes, 3-(dimethyloctadecylammonio) propyl Me Pr, polymers with silicic acid (H

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as silsesquioxanes, 3-(dimethyloctadecylammonio) propyl Me Pr, polymers with silicic acid (H4SiO4) tetra-Et ester, (2-hydroxyethoxy)- and methoxy-terminated, chlorides. (P-19-24, CASRN 2231249-14-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as an asphalt additive or asphalt emulsion additive. It is a significant new use to use the chemical substance as an asphalt additive in a manner that results in inhalation exposure to respirable particles or droplets containing the chemical substance.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=8.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 46555, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 57757, Sept. 16, 2020]




