# § 8.30   Review of Decisions and Appeal to Board of Veterans' Appeals.

(a) *Decisions.* This section pertains to insurance decisions involving questions arising under parts 6, 7, 8, and 8a of this chapter, to include the denial of applications for insurance, total disability income provision, or reinstatement; disallowance of claims for insurance benefits; and decisions holding fraud or imposing forfeiture. The applicant or claimant and his or her representative, if any, will be notified in writing of such a decision, which must include, in the notice letter or enclosures or a combination thereof, all of the following elements:


(1) Identification of the issues adjudicated.


(2) A summary of the evidence considered.


(3) A summary of the applicable laws and regulations relevant to the decision.


(4) Identification of findings that are favorable to the claimant.


(5) For denials, identification of the element(s) not satisfied that led to the denial.


(6) An explanation of how to obtain or access the evidence used in making the decision.


(7) A summary of the applicable review options available for the claimant to seek further review of the decision.


(b) *Favorable findings.* Any finding favorable to the claimant or applicant is binding on all subsequent agency of original jurisdiction and Board of Veterans' Appeals adjudicators, unless rebutted by evidence that identifies a clear and unmistakable error in the favorable finding.


(c) *Review of decisions.* Within one year from the date on which the agency of original jurisdiction issues notice of an insurance decision as outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, applicants or claimants may elect one of the following administrative review options by timely filing the appropriate form prescribed by the Secretary:


(1) *Supplemental claim review.* The nature of this review will accord with § 3.2501 of this title to the extent the terms used therein apply to insurance matters.


(2) *Request for a higher-level review.* The nature of this review will accord with § 3.2601 of this title to the extent the terms used therein apply to insurance matters. Higher-level reviews will be conducted by an experienced adjudicator who did not participate in the prior decision. Selection of a higher-level adjudicator to conduct a higher-level review is at VA's discretion.


(3) Appeal to *Board of Veterans' Appeals.* See 38 CFR part 20.


(d) *Part 3 provisions.* See § 3.2500(b) through (d) of this chapter for principles that generally apply to a veteran's election of review of an insurance decision.


(e) *Applicability.* This section applies where notice of an insurance decision was provided to an applicant or claimant on or after the effective date of the modernized review system as provided in § 19.2(a) of this chapter, or where an applicant or claimant has elected review of a legacy claim under the modernized review system as provided in § 3.2400(c) of this title.


(f) *Unpaid premiums.* When a claimant or applicant elects a review option under paragraph (c) of this section, any unpaid premiums, normally due under the policy from effective date of issue or reinstatement (as appropriate), will become an interest-bearing lien, enforceable as a legal debt due the United States and subject to all available collection procedures in the event of a favorable result for the claimant or applicant.


(g) *Premium payments.* Despite a claimant's or applicant's election of a review option under paragraph (c) of this section, where the agency of original jurisdiction's decision involved a change in or addition to insurance currently in force, premium payments must be continued on the existing contract.


(h) *Section 1984.* Nothing in this section shall limit an applicant's or claimant's right to pursue actions under 38 U.S.C. 1984.



---

[N] [84 FR 173, Jan. 18, 2019]




