# ยง 62.1950   Identification of plan.

(a) Section 111(d) plan for municipal solid waste landfills and the associated Delaware Department of Natural Resources, Division of Air and Waste Management, Regulation No. 20, Section 28, as submitted on April 23, 1998, to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cc.


(b) Control of Emissions from Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, including Delaware Administrative Code 1120 (Section 30), submitted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on October 10, 2017, to implement 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf. The Plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which the EPA incorporates by reference.


(c) After March 23, 2020, the substantive requirements of the municipal solid waste landfills state plan are contained in paragraph (b) of this section and owners and operators of municipal solid waste landfills in Delaware must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d)(1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A copy of the material is available at the EPA Region III office, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, 215-814-5000. You may inspect a copy at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of Delaware, Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, State of Delaware Administrative Code.


(i) Title 7 Natural Resources and Environmental Control, 1120 New Source Performance Standards, 30.0 Standards of Performance for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills After July 11, 2017, dated July 11, 2017.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [85 FR 9675, Feb. 20, 2020]






