# § 301-70.802   Must we ensure that travel on Government aircraft is the most cost-effective alternative?

(a) Yes, you must ensure that travel on a Government aircraft is the most cost-effective alternative that will meet the travel requirement. Your designated travel approving official must—


(1) Compare the cost of all travel alternatives, as applicable, that is—


(i) Travel on a scheduled commercial airline;


(ii) Travel on a Federal aircraft;


(iii) Travel on a Government aircraft hired as a commercial aviation service (CAS); and


(iv) Travel by other available modes of transportation; and


(2) Approve only the most cost-effective alternative that meets your agency's needs.


(3) Consider the cost of non-productive or lost work time while in travel status and certain other costs when comparing the costs of using Government aircraft in lieu of scheduled commercial airline service and other available modes of transportation. Additional information on costs included in the cost comparison may be found in the “U.S. Government Aircraft Cost Accounting Guide,” published by the General Services Administration, Office of Government-wide Policy. To obtain a copy of the guide, please contact *aviationpolicy@gsa.gov.*

(b) The aircraft management office in the agency that owns or hires the Government aircraft must provide your designated travel-approving official with cost estimates for a Government aircraft trip (*i.e.,* a Federal aircraft trip cost or a CAS aircraft trip cost).


(c) When an agency operates a Government aircraft to fulfill a non-travel related governmental function or for required use travel, using any space available for passengers on official travel is presumed to result in cost savings.



---

[N] [FTR Amdt. 2004-02, 69 FR 34305, June 21, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 39849, July 2, 2020]




