# § 245.303   Criteria for revoking certification.

(a) It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with any of the railroad rules or practices described in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) A certified dispatcher who fails to comply with a railroad rule or practice described in paragraph (e) of this section shall have their certification revoked.


(c) A certified dispatcher who is assigned to monitor, pilot, or instruct a dispatcher and fails to take appropriate action to prevent a violation of a railroad rule or practice described in paragraph (e) of this section shall have their certification revoked. Appropriate action does not mean that a supervisor, pilot, or instructor must prevent a violation from occurring at all costs; the duty may be met by warning the dispatcher of a potential or foreseeable violation.


(d) A certified dispatcher who is called by a railroad to perform a duty other than that of a dispatcher shall not have their dispatcher certification revoked based on actions taken or not taken while performing that duty except for violations described in paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(e) When determining whether to revoke a dispatcher's certification, a railroad shall only consider violations of its operating rules or practices that involve:


(1) Failure to properly issue or apply a mandatory directive when warranted.


(2) Improperly authorizing a train or on-track equipment to enter into an out-of-service or blue flag protected track.


(3) Granting permission for a train or on-track equipment to enter into established RWIC limits without authority or permission from the RWIC.


(4) Removal of blocking devices or established protection of RWIC working limits prior to the RWIC releasing the limits.


(5) Failure to properly apply blocking devices or establish proper protection for specified working limits or movements of trains or on-track equipment.


(6) Granting permission for a train to enter PTC or Cab Signal limits with inoperative or malfunctioning PTC or Cab Signal equipment.


(7) Failure to comply with § 219.101 of this chapter. However, such incidents shall be considered as a violation only for the purposes of § 245.305(a)(2) and (b).


(f) In making the determination as to whether to revoke a dispatcher's certification, a railroad shall only consider conduct described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section that occurred within the three years prior to the determination.


(g) If in any single incident the person's conduct contravened more than one operating rule or practice, that event shall be treated as a single violation for the purposes of this section.


(h) A violation of one or more operating rules or practices described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section that occurs during a properly conducted operational compliance test subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be counted in determining the periods of ineligibility described in § 245.305.


(i) An operational test that is not conducted in compliance with this part, a railroad's operating rules, or a railroad's program under § 217.9 of this chapter, will not be considered a legitimate test of operational skill or knowledge, and will not be considered for revocation purposes.


(j) Each railroad shall adopt and comply with a program meeting the requirements of this section. When any person (including, but not limited to, each railroad, railroad officer, supervisor, and employee) violates any requirement of a program which complies with the requirements of this section, that person shall be considered to have violated the requirements of this section.






