# § 165.846   Security Zone; Lower Mississippi River, Mile Marker 94 to 97 Above Head of Passes, New Orleans, LA.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: All navigable waters of Lower Mississippi River from mile marker (MM) 94 (29°57′32″ N, 90°03′05″ W) to MM 97 (29°55′19″ N, 90°04′00″ W), NAD83 datum, Above Head of Passes in New Orleans, LA.


(b) *Enforcement period.* The security zone established by this section will be enforced only upon notice of the Captain of the Port New Orleans (COTP). In accordance with subpart A of this part, for each enforcement of the security zone established under this section, the COTP will publish a notice of enforcement in the _Federal Register_ as early as is practicable. In addition, the COTP will also inform the public of the enforcement area and times of this section as indicated in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general security zone regulations in subpart D of this part, no person or vessel may enter the security zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or a designated representative. A designated representative means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer of the U.S. Coast Guard assigned to units under the operational control of Sector New Orleans; to include a Federal, State, and/or local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port New Orleans (COTP) in the enforcement of the security zone.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact the COTP or a designated representative by telephone at (504) 365-2545 or VHF-FM Channel 16 or 67. Those in the security zone must transit at their slowest speed and comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or a designated representative.


(d) *Information broadcasts.* The COTP or a designated representative will inform the public of the enforcement period of this security zone through Vessel Traffic Service Advisories, Broadcast Notices to Mariners (BNMs), Local Notice to Mariners (LNMs), and/or Marine Safety Information Bulletins (MSIBs) as appropriate.



---

[N] [USCG-2022-0333, 87 FR 45250, July 28, 2022]






