# ยง 1261.104   Allowable claims.

(a) A claim may be allowed only if:


(1) The damage or loss was not caused wholly or partly by the negligent or wrongful act of the claimant, the claimant's agent, private employee, or family member (the standard to be applied is that of reasonable care under the circumstances);


(2) The possession of the property lost or damaged and the quantity is determined to have been reasonable, useful, or proper under the circumstances; and


(3) The claim is substantiated by proper and convincing evidence.


(b) Claims which are otherwise allowable under this subpart shall not be disallowed solely because the property was not in the possession of the claimant at the time of the damage or loss, or solely because the claimant was not the legal owner of the property for which the claim is made. For example, borrowed property may be the subject of a claim.


(c) Subject to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this section and the other provisions of this subpart, any claim for damage to, or loss of, personal property incident to service with NASA may be considered and allowed. The following are examples of the principal types of claims which may be allowed, but these examples are not exclusive and other types of claims may be allowed, unless excluded by ยง 1261.105.


(1) *Property loss or damage in quarters or other authorized places.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property arising from fire, flood, hurricane, other natural disaster, theft, or other unusual occurrence, while such property is located at:


(i) Quarters within the 50 States or the District of Columbia that were assigned to the claimant or provided by the United States;


(ii) Quarters outside the 50 States and the District of Columbia that were occupied by the claimant, whether or not they were assigned or provided by the United States, except when the claimant is a civilian employee who is a local inhabitant; or


(iii) Any warehouse, office working area, hospital, or other place authorized or apparently authorized for the reception or storage of property.


(2) *Transportation or travel losses.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property incident to transportation or storage pursuant to orders, or in connection with travel under orders, including property in the custody of a carrier, an agent or agency of the Government, or the claimant.


(3) *House trailers.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, house trailers and their contents under the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(4) *Negligence of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property caused by the negligence or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the Government while acting within the scope of office or employment.


(5) *Enemy action or public service.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property as a direct consequence of:


(i) Enemy action or threat of action or combat, guerrilla, brigandage, or other belligerent activity, or unjust confiscation by a foreign power or its nationals;


(ii) Action by the claimant to quiet a civil disturbance or to alleviate a public disaster; or


(iii) Efforts by the claimant to save human life or Government property.


(6) *Property used for benefit of the Government.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, property when used for the benefit of the Government at the request of, or with the knowledge and consent of, an authorized official.


(7) *Clothing and accessories.* Claims may be allowed for damage to, or loss of, clothing or accessories customarily worn on the person, such as eyeglasses, hearing aids or dentures.




