# ยง 26.199d   Customs inspection and release.

On receipt of a properly executed TTB Form 5110.31 from the consignor, the customs officer at the port of arrival in the United States shall inspect the corresponding shipment of spirits:


(a) If a shipment is in a bulk conveyance, and:


(1) The seals are intact, he shall release the shipment; or


(2) If the seals are broken, he shall, before release of the spirits, affix customs seals.


(b) If a shipment in packages does not arrive in a sealed conveyance, the packages shall be inspected, and if it appears that any package has sustained a loss, the package shall be weighed and its new gross weight shall be entered in contrasting color on the package gauge record attached to the related TTB Form 5110.31. The serial numbers of any seals affixed by the customs officers shall be reported on TTB Form 5110.31 under remarks with an explanation and description of any evidence of loss. After completing his inspection, the customs officer shall execute his certificate on each copy of TTB Form 5110.31 and show thereon any exceptions found at the time of his release for transfer of the spirits to the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant. Missing packages should be reported separately from packages which have sustained losses. The customs officer shall then release the spirits to the consignee's representative and distribute all forms in accordance with the instructions on TTB Form 5110.31.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8552, Mar. 1, 1985, as amended by T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1134, Jan. 4, 2017]




