# § 2402.6   Timing of responses to requests.

(a) *In general.* OSTP shall ordinarily respond to requests in order of their receipt.


(b) *Initial determinations.* OSTP will exercise all reasonable efforts to make an initial determination acknowledging and granting, partially granting, or denying a request for records within twenty (20) working days after receiving a perfected request.


(c) *Extensions of response time in “unusual circumstances.”* (1) The twenty (20)-working day period provided in paragraph (b) of this section may be extended if unusual circumstances arise. If an extension is necessary, OSTP shall promptly notify the requester of the extension, briefly state the reasons for the extension, and estimate when a response will be issued. Unusual circumstances warranting extension are:


(i) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;


(ii) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or


(iii) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject-matter interest therein.


(2) After OSTP notifies the requester of the reasons for the delay, the requester will have an opportunity to modify the request or arrange for an alternative time frame for completion of the request. To assist in this process, OSTP shall advise the requester of the availability of OSTP's FOIA Public Liaison to aid in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and OSTP, and notify the requester of his or her right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.


(3) If no initial determination is made at the end of the twenty-day period provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, including any extension provided for in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the requester may appeal the action to the FOIA Appeals Officer.


(d) *Expedited processing of request.* (1) A requester may make a request for expedited processing at any time.


(2) When a request for expedited processing is received, OSTP must determine whether to grant the request for expedited processing within ten (10) calendar days of its receipt. Requests will receive expedited processing if one of the following compelling needs is met:


(i) The requester can establish that failure to receive the records quickly could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual; or


(ii) The requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information and can demonstrate that an urgency to inform the public concerning actual or alleged Federal Government activity exists.


(3) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. As a matter of administrative discretion, OSTP may waive the formal certification requirement.


(4) Administrative appeals of denials of expedited processing will be given expeditious consideration. If the FOIA Appeals Officer upholds the denial of expedited processing, that decision is immediately subject to judicial review in the appropriate Federal district court.


(e) *Multi-track processing.* (1) OSTP may use multi-track processing in responding to requests. Multi-track processing means placing simple requests that require limited review in one processing track and placing more voluminous and complex requests in one or more other processing tracks. Requests in each track are processed on a first-in, first-out basis.


(i) *Track one—expedited requests.* Track one is made up of requests that sought and received expedited processing as provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Track two—simple requests.* Track two is for requests of simple to moderate complexity that do not require consultations with other entities and do not involve voluminous records.


(iii) *Track three—complex requests.* Track three is for complex requests that involve voluminous records, require lengthy or numerous consultations, raise unique or novel legal questions, or require submitter review under § 2402.7.


(2) OSTP may provide requesters with requests in slower track(s) the opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to qualify for faster processing within the specified limits of faster track(s). OSTP will do so by contacting the requester by letter, telephone, email, or facsimile, whichever is more efficient in each case. When providing a requester with the opportunity to limit the scope of a request, OSTP shall also advise the requester of OSTP's FOIA Public Liaison to aid in the resolution of any dispute arising between the requester and OSTP as well as the requester's right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.


(f) *Aggregating requests.* OSTP may aggregate requests if it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a single requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, involve related matters and constitute a single request that otherwise would involve unusual circumstances. For example, OSTP may aggregate multiple requests for similar information filed by a single requester within a short period of time.




