# ยง 133.41   Flight characteristics requirements.

(a) The applicant must demonstrate to the Administrator, by performing the operational flight checks prescribed in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, as applicable, that the rotorcraft-load combination has satisfactory flight characteristics, unless these operational flight checks have been demonstrated previously and the rotorcraft-load combination flight characteristics were satisfactory. For the purposes of this demonstration, the external-load weight (including the external-load attaching means) is the maximum weight for which authorization is requested. 


(b) Class A rotorcraft-load combinations: The operational flight check must consist of at least the following maneuvers: 


(1) Take off and landing. 


(2) Demonstration of adequate directional control while hovering. 


(3) Acceleration from a hover. 


(4) Horizontal flight at airspeeds up to the maximum airspeed for which authorization is requested. 


(c) *Class B and D rotorcraft-load combinations:* The operational flight check must consist of at least the following maneuvers: 


(1) Pickup of the external load. 


(2) Demonstration of adequate directional control while hovering. 


(3) Acceleration from a hover. 


(4) Horizontal flight at airspeeds up to the maximum airspeed for which authorization is requested. 


(5) Demonstrating appropriate lifting device operation. 


(6) Maneuvering of the external load into release position and its release, under probable flight operation conditions, by means of each of the quick-release controls installed on the rotorcraft. 


(d) Class C rotorcraft-load combinations: For Class C rotorcraft-load combinations used in wire-stringing, cable-laying, or similar operations, the operational flight check must consist of the maneuvers, as applicable, prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 1529, 29 FR 603, Jan. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 133-5, 41 FR 55475, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 133-9, 51 FR 40709, Nov. 7, 1986]




