# ยง 360.102   Online registration.

(a) *In general.* (1) Any importer, importing company, customs broker or importer's agent with a U.S. street address may register and obtain the user identification number necessary to log on to the automatic steel import license issuance system. Foreign companies may obtain a user identification number if they have a U.S. address through which they may be reached; P.O. boxes will not be accepted. A user identification number will be issued within two business days. Companies will be able to register online through the SIMA system Web site. However, should a company prefer to apply for a user identification number non-electronically, a phone/fax option will be available at Commerce during regular business hours.


(2) This user identification number will be required in order to log on to the steel import license issuance system. A single user identification number will be issued to an importer, customs broker or importer's agent. Operating units within the company (*e.g.*, individual branches, divisions or employees) will all use the same basic company user identification code but can supply suffixes to identify the branches. The steel import license issuance system will be designed to allow multiple users of a single identification number from different locations within the company to enter information simultaneously.


(b) *Information required to obtain a user identification number.* In order to obtain a user identification number, the importer, importing company, customs broker or importer's agent will be required to provide general information. This information will include: the filer company name, employer identification number (EIN) or Customs ID number (where no EIN is available), U.S. street address, phone number, contact information and e-mail address for both the company headquarters and any branch offices that will be applying for steel licenses. It is the responsibility of the applicant to keep the information up-to-date. This information will not be released by Commerce, except as required by U.S. law.




