# ยง 482.70   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Adverse event* means an untoward, undesirable, and usually unanticipated event that causes death or serious injury, or the risk thereof. As applied to transplant programs, examples of adverse events include (but are not limited to) serious medical complications or death caused by living donation; unintentional transplantation of organs of mismatched blood types; transplantation of organs to unintended beneficiaries; and unintended transmission of infectious disease to a beneficiary.


*End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD)* means that stage of renal impairment that appears irreversible and permanent, and requires a regular course of dialysis or kidney transplantation to maintain life.


*ESRD Network* means all Medicare-approved ESRD facilities in a designated geographic area specified by CMS.


*Heart-Lung transplant program* means a transplant program that is located in a hospital with an existing Medicare-approved heart transplant program and an existing Medicare-approved lung program that performs combined heart-lung transplants.


*Intestine transplant program* means a Medicare-approved liver transplant program that performs intestine transplants, combined liver-intestine transplants, or multivisceral transplants.


*Network organization* means the administrative governing body to the network and liaison to the Federal government.


*Pancreas transplant program* means a Medicare-approved kidney transplant program that performs pancreas transplants alone or subsequent to a kidney transplant as well as kidney-pancreas transplants.


*Transplant hospital* means a hospital that furnishes organ transplants and other medical and surgical specialty services required for the care of transplant patients.


*Transplant program* means an organ-specific transplant program within a transplant hospital (as defined in this section).



---

[N] [51 FR 22042, June 17, 1986, as amended at 84 FR 51821, Sept. 30, 2019]




