# ยง 387.2   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 as amended, 40 U.S.C. 471 *et seq.*, and 41 CFR 101-47. Terms defined in the Act and not defined in this section have the meanings given to them in the Act.


(b) *Applicant* means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any political subdivision, municipality, or instrumentality thereof, that has submitted an application to the Secretary to obtain surplus Federal property.


(c) *Disposal Agency* means the executive agency of the Government which has authority to assign property to the Secretary for conveyance for development or operation of a port facility.


(d) *Grantee* means the Applicant to which surplus Federal property is conveyed.


(e) *Grantor* means the Secretary.


(f) *Port Facility* means any structure and improved property, including services connected therewith, whether located on the waterfront or inland, which is used or intended for use in developing, transferring, or assisting maritime commerce and water dependent industries, including, but not limited to, piers, wharves, yards, docks, berths, aprons, equipment used to load and discharge cargo and passengers from vessels, dry and cold storage spaces, terminal and warehouse buildings, bulk and liquid storage terminals, tank farms, multimodal transfer terminals, transshipment and receiving stations, marinas, foreign trade zones, shipyards, industrial property, fishing and aquaculture structures, mixed use waterfront complexes, connecting channels and port landside transportation access routes.


(g) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation acting by and through the Maritime Administrator, Maritime Administration by delegation of authority.


(h) *Surplus Property* means Federal real and related personal property duly determined to be unneeded by a Federal agency which may be conveyed to an Applicant for use in the development or operation of a port facility.




