# ยง 1201.32   What are NARA's procedures for salary offset?

(a) NARA will coordinate salary deductions under this subpart as appropriate. 


(b) If you are a NARA employee who owes a debt to NARA, NARA's payroll office will determine the amount of your disposable pay and will implement the salary offset. 


(c) Deductions will begin within three official pay periods following receipt by NARA's payroll office of certification of debt from the creditor agency. 


(d) The Notice provisions of these regulations do not apply to certain debts arising under this section (*see* ยง 1201.14(c)). 


(e) Types of collection. (1) *Lump-sum offset.* If the amount of the debt is equal to or less than 15 percent of disposable pay, the debt generally will be collected through one lump-sum offset. 


(2) *Installment deductions.* Installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size and frequency of installment deductions will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and your ability to pay. However, the amount deducted from any period will not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made unless you have agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. If possible, installment payments will be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less. 


(3) *Deductions from final check.* A deduction exceeding the 15 percent of disposable pay limitation may be made from any final salary payment under 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS in order to liquidate the debt, whether the employee is being separated voluntarily or involuntarily. 


(4) *Deductions from other sources.* If an employee subject to salary offset is separated from NARA and the balance of the debt cannot be liquidated by offset of the final salary check, NARA may offset later payments of any kind against the balance of the debt, as allowed by 31 U.S.C. 3716 and the FCCS. 


(f) *Multiple debts.* In instances where two or more creditor agencies are seeking salary offsets, or where two or more debts are owed to a single creditor agency, NARA's payroll office may, at its discretion, determine whether one or more debts should be offset simultaneously within the 15 percent limitation. 




