# § 229.20   Relation to state law.

(a) *In general.* Any provision of a law or regulation of any state in effect on or before September 1, 1989, that requires funds deposited in an account at a bank chartered by the state to be made available for withdrawal in a shorter time than the time provided in subpart B, and, in connection therewith, subpart A, shall—


(1) Supersede the provisions of the EFA Act and subpart B, and, in connection therewith, subpart A, to the extent the provisions relate to the time by which funds deposited or received for deposit in an account are available for withdrawal; and


(2) Apply to all federally insured banks located within the state.


(b) *Preemption of inconsistent law.* Except as provided in paragraph (a), the EFA Act and subpart B, and, in connection therewith, subpart A, supersede any provision of inconsistent state law.


(c) *Standards for preemption.* A provision of a state law in effect on or before September 2, 1989, is not inconsistent with the EFA Act, or subpart B, or in connection therewith, subpart A, if it requires that funds shall be available in a shorter period of time than the time provided in this subpart. Inconsistency with the EFA Act and subpart B, and in connection therewith, subpart A, may exist when state law—


(1) Permits a depositary bank to make funds deposited in an account by cash, electronic payment, or check available for withdrawal in a longer period of time than the maximum period of time permitted under subpart B, and, in connection therewith, subpart A; or


(2) Provides for disclosures or notices concerning funds availability relating to accounts.


(d) *Preemption determinations.* The Board may determine, upon the request of any state, bank, or other interested party, whether the EFA Act and subpart B, and, in connection therewith, subpart A, preempt provisions of state laws relating to the availability of funds.


(e) *Procedures for preemption determinations.* A request for a preemption determination shall include the following—


(1) A copy of the full text of the state law in question, including any implementing regulations or judicial interpretations of that law; and


(2) A comparison of the provisions of state law with the corresponding provisions in the EFA Act and subparts A and B of this part, together with a discussion of the reasons why specific provisions of state law are either consistent or inconsistent with corresponding sections of the EFA Act and subparts A and B of this part.


A request for a preemption determination shall be addressed to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.



---

[N] [53 FR 19433, May 27, 1988, as amended at 69 FR 47311, Aug. 4, 2004]




