# 215.404-4   Profit.

(b) *Policy.* (1) Contracting officers shall use a structured approach for developing a prenegotiation profit or fee objective on any negotiated contract action when certified cost or pricing data is obtained, except for cost-plus-award-fee contracts (see 215.404-74, 216.405-2, and FAR 16.405-2) or contracts with Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) (see 215.404-75). There are three structured approaches—


(A) The weighted guidelines method;


(B) The modified weighted guidelines method; and


(C) An alternate structured approach.


(c) *Contracting officer responsibilities.* (1) Also, do not perform a profit analysis when assessing cost realism in competitive acquisitions.


(2) When using a structured approach, the contracting officer—


(A) Shall use the weighted guidelines method (see 215.404-71), except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2)(B) and (c)(2)(C) of this subsection.


(B) Shall use the modified weighted guidelines method (see 215.404-72) on contract actions with nonprofit organizations other than FFRDCs.


(C) May use an alternate structured approach (see 215.404-73) when—


(*1*) The contract action is—


(*i*) At or below the certified cost or pricing data threshold (see FAR 15.403-4(a)(1));


(*ii*) For architect-engineer or construction work;


(*iii*) Primarily for delivery of material from subcontractors; or


(*iv*) A termination settlement; or


(*2*) The weighted guidelines method does not produce a reasonable overall profit objective and the head of the contracting activity approves use of the alternate approach in writing.


(D) Shall use the weighted guidelines method to establish a basic profit rate under a formula-type pricing agreement, and may then use the basic rate on all actions under the agreement, provided that conditions affecting profit do not change.


(E) Shall document the profit analysis in the contract file.


(5) Although specific agreement on the applied weights or values for individual profit factors shall not be attempted, the contracting officer may encourage the contractor to—


(A) Present the details of its proposed profit amounts in the weighted guidelines format or similar structured approached; and


(B) Use the weighted guidelines method in developing profit objectives for negotiated subcontracts.


(6) The contracting officer must also verify that relevant variables have not materially changed (e.g., performance risk, interest rates, progress payment rates, distribution of facilities capital).


(d) *Profit-analysis factors*—(1) *Common factors.* The common factors are embodied in the DoD structured approaches and need not be further considered by the contracting officer.



---

[N] [63 FR 55040, Oct. 14, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 63799, Nov. 17, 1998; 65 FR 77829, Dec. 13, 2000; 66 FR 49863, Oct. 1, 2001; 71 FR 69494, Dec. 1, 2006; 77 FR 76940, Dec. 31, 2012]




