# ยง 55.12   Consistency updates.

(a) The Administrator will update this part as necessary to maintain consistency with the regulations of onshore areas in order to attain and maintain Federal and State ambient standards and comply with part C of title I of the Act.


(b) Where an OCS activity is occurring within 25 miles of a State seaward boundary, consistency reviews will occur at least annually. In addition, in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, consistency reviews will occur upon receipt of an NOI and when a State or local agency submits a rule to EPA to be considered for incorporation by reference in this part 55.


(1) Upon initiation of a consistency review, the Administrator will evaluate the requirements of part 55 to determine whether they are consistent with the current onshore requirements.


(2) If the Administrator finds that part 55 is inconsistent with the requirements in effect in the onshore area, EPA will conduct a notice and comment rulemaking to update part 55 accordingly.


(c) *Consistency reviews triggered by receipt of an NOI.* Upon receipt of an NOI, the Administrator will initiate a consistency review of regulations in the onshore area.


(1) If the NOI is submitted by a source for which the COA has previously been assigned, EPA will publish a proposed consistency update in the _Federal Register_ no later than 60 days after the receipt of the NOI, if an update is deemed necessary by the Administrator:


(2) If the NOI is submitted by a source requiring a COA designation, EPA will publish a proposed consistency update in the _Federal Register,_ if an update is deemed necessary by the Administrator:


(i) No later than 75 days after receipt of the NOI if no adjacent areas submit a request for COA designation and the NOA becomes the COA by default, or


(ii) No later than 105 days after receipt of the NOI if an adjacent area submits a request to be designated as COA but fails to submit the required demonstration within 90 days of receipt of the NOI, or


(iii) No later than 15 days after the date of the final COA determination if one or more demonstrations are received.


(d) *Consistency reviews triggered by State and local air pollution control agencies submitting rules directly to EPA for inclusion into part 55.* (1) EPA will propose in the _Federal Register_ to approve applicable rules submitted by State or local regulatory agencies for incorporation by reference into ยง 55.14 of this part by the end of the calendar quarter following the quarter in which the submittal is received by EPA.


(2) State and local rules submitted for inclusion in part 55 must be rationally related to the attainment and maintenance of Federal or State ambient air quality standards or to the requirements of part C of title I of the Act. The submittal must be legible and unmarked, with the adoption date and the name of the agency on each page, and must be accompanied by proof of adoption.


(e) No rule or regulation that EPA finds to be arbitrary or capricious will be incorporated into this part.


(f) A source may not submit a complete permit application until any update the Administrator deems necessary to make part 55 consistent with the COA's rules has been proposed.




