# ยง 117.869   Columbia River.

(a) The draws of the Interstate 5 Bridges, mile 106.5, between Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, shall open on signal except that the draws need not be opened for the passage of vessels from 6:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday except federal holidays.


(b) The draw of the Port of Hood River bridge, mile 169.8 at Hood River, shall open on signal if at least 12 hours notice is given.


(c) The draw of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge, mile 201.2, between Celilo, Oregon, and Wishram, Washington, is automated and is normally maintained in the fully open-to-navigation position.


(1) *Lights.* All lights required for automated operation shall be visible to marine traffic for a distance of at least 2 miles and shall be displayed at all times, day and night.


(i) When the draw is fully open, a steady green light shall be displayed at the center of the drawspan on both upstream and downstream sides.


(ii) When the draw is not fully open, a steady red light shall be displayed at the center of the drawspan on both upstream and downstream sides.


(iii) When the draw is about to close, flashing yellow lights in the form of a down-pointing arrow shall be displayed at the center of the drawspan on both upstream and downstream sides.


(2) *Operation.* When a train approaches the bridge, the yellow lights shall start flashing. After an 8-minute delay, the green lights shall change to red, the drawspan shall lower and lock, and the yellow lights shall be extinguished. Red lights shall continue to be displayed until the train has crossed and the drawspan is again in the fully open position. At that time, the red lights shall change to green.


(3) Vessels equipped with radiotelephones may contact Burlington Northern Santa Fe to obtain information on the status of the bridge. Bridge status information also may be obtained by calling the commercial telephone number posted at the drawspan of the bridge.



---

[N] [CGD 82-025, 49 FR 17452, Apr. 24, 1984, as amended by CCGD13 85-02, 50 FR 31591, Aug. 5, 1985; CGD13-93-031, 60 FR 32268, June 21, 1995; CGD13-99-011, 65 FR 1544, Jan. 11, 2000] 




