# § 1.987-12   Deferral of section 987 gain or loss.

(a) *Overview*—(1) *Scope.* This section provides rules that defer the recognition of section 987 gain or loss and rules for recognizing (or suspending) deferred section 987 gain or loss. This paragraph (a) provides an overview of this section and certain instances when this section does not apply. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the extent to which net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss is recognized under § 1.987-5 (or in certain cases, suspended) or becomes deferred section 987 gain or loss in connection with a deferral event. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the extent to which deferred section 987 gain or loss is recognized (or in certain cases, suspended) upon the occurrence of subsequent events. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a rule relating to the treatment of a successor deferral QBU when deferred section 987 loss becomes suspended section 987 loss. Paragraph (e) of this section provides an anti-abuse rule. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for determining the deferred section 987 gain or loss of combined and separated QBUs. Paragraph (g) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (h) of this section provides examples illustrating the rules of this section.


(2) *Exceptions*—(i) *Annual recognition election.* This section does not apply to a termination of a section 987 QBU in a taxable year in which an annual recognition election is in effect.


(ii) *De minimis rule.* This section does not apply in a taxable year if the aggregate amount of net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss of the owner with respect to all of its section 987 QBUs that would become deferred section 987 gain or loss under this section does not exceed $5 million.


(b) *Treatment of section 987 gain and loss in connection with a deferral event.* Notwithstanding § 1.987-5 (general rule requiring recognition of section 987 gain or loss in the taxable year of a remittance), the owner of a section 987 QBU with respect to which a deferral event occurs (an *original deferral QBU*) includes in taxable income section 987 gain or loss in connection with the deferral event only to the extent provided in this paragraph (b).


(1) *Gain or loss recognized (or suspended) in the taxable year of a deferral event.* In the taxable year of a deferral event with respect to an original deferral QBU, the owner of the original deferral QBU recognizes section 987 gain or loss under § 1.987-5, except that, solely for purposes of applying § 1.987-5, all assets and liabilities of the original deferral QBU that, immediately after the deferral event, are reflected on the books and records of a successor deferral QBU are treated as not having been transferred and therefore as remaining on the books and records of the original deferral QBU notwithstanding the deferral event. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, any section 987 loss that would otherwise be recognized under this paragraph (b)(1) and § 1.987-5 may instead become suspended loss under § 1.987-11(c) if a current rate election is in effect, or under § 1.987-13(h) if the deferral event also constitutes an outbound loss event.


(2) *Deferred section 987 gain or loss*—(i) *In general.* In the taxable year of a deferral event with respect to an original deferral QBU, any net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss that is not recognized or suspended in the taxable year of the deferral event becomes deferred section 987 gain or loss of the original deferral QBU owner. Suspended section 987 loss does not become deferred section 987 loss under this paragraph (b)(2).


(ii) *Deferred section 987 gain or loss attributable to a successor deferral QBU.* A portion of the deferred section 987 gain or loss described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section becomes deferred section 987 gain or loss with respect to each successor deferral QBU. Such portion is equal to the deferred section 987 gain or loss multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets transferred to the successor deferral QBU in connection with the deferral event and the denominator of which is the aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets transferred to all successor deferral QBUs in connection with the deferral event.


(c) *Recognition (or suspension) of deferred section 987 gain or loss following a deferral event.* An original deferral QBU owner recognizes deferred section 987 gain or loss with respect to a successor deferral QBU in the taxable year of the deferral event and in subsequent taxable years as provided in this paragraph (c).


(1) *Recognition upon a subsequent remittance*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an original deferral QBU owner recognizes deferred section 987 gain or loss in the taxable year of the deferral event, and in subsequent taxable years, upon a remittance from a successor deferral QBU to the owner of the successor deferral QBU (*successor deferral QBU owner*) in the amount described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, any deferred section 987 loss that would otherwise be recognized under this paragraph (c)(1) may instead become suspended section 987 loss under § 1.987-11(c) (if a current rate election is in effect with respect to the original deferral QBU owner) or under § 1.987-7(d)(1)(ii) (in the case of a partnership).


(ii) *Amount.* The amount of deferred section 987 gain or loss that is recognized (or suspended) pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1) in a taxable year of the original deferral QBU owner is the original deferral QBU owner's outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss (that is, the amount of deferred section 987 gain or loss not previously recognized or suspended) with respect to the successor deferral QBU multiplied by the remittance proportion of the successor deferral QBU owner with respect to the successor deferral QBU for the taxable year ending with or within the taxable year of the original deferral QBU owner, as determined under § 1.987-5(b) without regard to any annual recognition election of the successor deferral QBU owner. *See* paragraph (h)(4) of this section (*Example 4*) for an illustration of this rule.


(iii) *Deemed remittance by a successor deferral QBU.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), in a taxable year of the original deferral QBU owner in which a successor deferral QBU ceases to be owned by a member of the controlled group that includes the original deferral QBU owner, the successor deferral QBU is treated as having a remittance proportion of one. Accordingly, if a successor deferral QBU ceases to be owned by a member of the controlled group that includes the original deferral QBU owner, the original deferral QBU owner's outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss with respect to that successor deferral QBU will be recognized (or suspended). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(1), if the original deferral QBU owner goes out of existence and there is no qualified successor, in the last taxable year of the original deferral QBU owner, each successor deferral QBU is treated as having a remittance proportion of one. This paragraph (c)(1)(iii) does not affect the application of the section 987 regulations to the successor deferral QBU owner with respect to its ownership of the successor deferral QBU.


(2) *Deferral events and outbound loss events with respect to a successor deferral QBU.* Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if assets of the successor deferral QBU (*transferred assets*) are transferred (or deemed transferred) in a transaction that would constitute a deferral event or an outbound loss event if the original deferral QBU owner owned the successor deferral QBU directly and the original deferral QBU owner had net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss with respect to the successor deferral QBU equal to its outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss with respect to the successor deferral QBU (the *deemed transaction*), then, in accordance with the rules of this section and § 1.987-13(h)—


(i) The original deferral QBU owner recognizes its outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss, or suspends its outstanding deferred section 987 loss, to the extent it would have recognized or suspended net unrecognized section 987 gain or loss as a result of the deemed transaction; and


(ii) Each section 987 QBU is a successor deferral QBU to the extent it would have been after the deemed transaction and the original deferral QBU owner has deferred section 987 gain or loss with respect to the successor deferral QBU to the extent it would have after the deemed transaction;


(iii) Each eligible QBU is a successor suspended loss QBU to the extent it would have been after the deemed transaction and the original deferral QBU owner has suspended section 987 loss with respect to the suspended loss QBU to the extent it would have after the deemed transaction.


(d) *Successor deferral QBU becomes a successor suspended loss QBU.* A successor deferral QBU becomes a successor suspended loss QBU, and an original deferral QBU owner becomes an original suspended loss QBU owner, if any of the original deferral QBU owner's deferred section 987 loss with respect to the successor deferral QBU becomes suspended section 987 loss. An eligible QBU may be both a successor deferral QBU and a successor suspended loss QBU and the original deferral QBU owner may also be an original suspended loss QBU owner.


(e) *Anti-abuse rule.* No section 987 loss is recognized under this section, § 1.987-5 or § 1.987-13 in connection with a transaction or series of transactions that are undertaken with a principal purpose of avoiding the purposes of this section.


(f) *Combinations and separations of successor deferral QBUs.* A combined QBU is a successor deferral QBU if either combining QBU was a successor deferral QBU. A separated QBU is a successor deferral QBU if the separating QBU was a successor deferral QBU.


(1) *Combined QBU.* The outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss of a combined QBU in each recognition grouping for a taxable year is equal to the sum of the combining QBUs' outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss in that recognition grouping.


(2) *Separated QBU.* The outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss of a separated QBU in each recognition grouping for a taxable year is equal to the separating QBU's outstanding deferred section 987 gain or loss in each recognition grouping multiplied by the separation fraction.


(g) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Deferral event.* A deferral event with respect to a section 987 QBU means any transaction or series of transactions that satisfy the conditions described in both paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) *Events.* The transaction or series of transactions constitutes:


(A) A termination of the section 987 QBU under § 1.987-8(b)(2) (substantially all the assets transferred to the owner), § 1.987-8(b)(5) (section 987 QBU ceases to be a section 987 QBU), or § 1.987-8(b)(6) (individual or corporation ceases to be a direct owner of a section 987 QBU); or


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Assets on books of successor deferral QBU.* Immediately after the transaction or series of transactions, assets of the section 987 QBU are reflected on the books and records of a successor deferral QBU.


(2) *Successor deferral QBU.* A section 987 QBU (*potential successor deferral QBU*) is a successor deferral QBU with respect to a section 987 QBU referred to in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section if, immediately after the transaction or series of transactions described in that paragraph, the potential successor deferral QBU satisfies all of the conditions described in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The books and records of the potential successor deferral QBU reflect assets that, immediately before the transaction or series of transactions described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, were reflected on the books and records of the section 987 QBU referred to in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.


(ii) The owner of the potential successor deferral QBU and the owner of the section 987 QBU referred to in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section immediately before the transaction or series of transactions described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section are members of the same controlled group.


(iii) If the owner of the section 987 QBU referred to in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section immediately before the transaction or series of transactions described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section was a U.S. person, the potential successor deferral QBU is owned by a U.S. person.


(3) *Original deferral QBU owner.* An original deferral QBU owner means, with respect to an original deferral QBU, the owner of the original deferral QBU immediately before the deferral event, or the owner's qualified successor.


(4) *Qualified successor.* A qualified successor with respect to a corporation (*transferor corporation*) means another corporation that acquires the assets of the transferor corporation in a transaction described in section 381(a) (*acquiring corporation*), provided that the acquiring corporation is a domestic corporation and the transferor corporation was a domestic corporation, or the acquiring corporation is a controlled foreign corporation and the transferor corporation was a controlled foreign corporation. A qualified successor of a person includes the qualified successor of a qualified successor.


(h) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section. For purposes of the examples, DC1 is a domestic corporation that owns all of the stock of DC2, which is also a domestic corporation, and CFC1, a controlled foreign corporation. In addition, DC1, DC2, and CFC1 are members of a controlled group, and the de minimis rule of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section is not applicable. Finally, except as otherwise provided, Business A is a section 987 QBU with the euro as its functional currency, there are no transfers between Business A and its owner, and Business A's assets are not depreciable or amortizable.


(1) *Example 1: Contribution of a section 987 QBU with net unrecognized section 987 gain to a member of the controlled group*—(i) *Facts.* DC1 owns Business A. The adjusted balance sheet of Business A reflects assets with an aggregate adjusted basis of €1,000x and no liabilities. DC1 contributes €900x of Business A's assets to DC2 in exchange for DC2 stock in a transaction to which section 351 applies. Immediately after the contribution, the remaining €100x of Business A's assets are no longer reflected on the books and records of a section 987 QBU (but are instead reflected on the books and records of DC1's home office). DC2, which has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency, uses the Business A assets in a business (*Business B*) that constitutes a section 987 QBU. At the time of the contribution, Business A has net unrecognized section 987 gain of $100x.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) Under § 1.987-2(c)(2)(ii), DC1's contribution of €900x of Business A's assets to DC2 is treated as a transfer of all of the assets of Business A to DC1, immediately followed by DC1's contribution of €900x of Business A's assets to DC2. The contribution of Business A's assets is a deferral event within the meaning of paragraph (g)(1) of this section because:


(*1*) The transfer from Business A to DC1 is a transfer of substantially all of Business A's assets to DC1, resulting in a termination of the Business A QBU under § 1.987-8(b)(2); and


(*2*) Immediately after the transaction, assets of Business A are reflected on the books and records of Business B, a section 987 QBU owned by a member of DC1's controlled group and a successor deferral QBU within the meaning of paragraph (g)(2) of this section. Accordingly, Business A is an original deferral QBU within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section, and DC1 is an original deferral QBU owner of Business A within the meaning of paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(B) Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, DC1's taxable income in the taxable year of the deferral event includes DC1's section 987 gain or loss determined with respect to Business A under § 1.987-5, except that, for purposes of applying § 1.987-5, all assets of Business A that are reflected on the books and records of Business B immediately after Business A's termination are treated as not having been transferred and therefore as though they remained on Business A's books and records (notwithstanding the deemed transfer of those assets under § 1.987-8(e)). Accordingly, in the taxable year of the deferral event, Business A is treated as making a remittance of €100x, corresponding to the assets of Business A that are no longer reflected on the books and records of a section 987 QBU, and is treated as having a remittance proportion with respect to Business A of 0.1, determined by dividing the €100x remittance by the sum of the remittance and the €900x aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets deemed to remain on Business A's books and records at the end of the taxable year. Thus, DC1 recognizes $10x of section 987 gain in the taxable year of the deferral event. DC1's deferred section 987 gain equals $90x, which is the amount of its net unrecognized section 987 gain (which is $100x) less the amount of section 987 gain recognized by DC1 under § 1.987-5 and this section (which is $10x).


(2) *Example 2: Contribution of a section 987 QBU with net unrecognized section 987 loss to a member of the controlled group when a current rate election is in effect*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (h)(1) of this section (*Example 1*) except that a current rate election is in effect for the taxable year (and an annual recognition election is not in effect) and, at the time of the contribution, Business A has net unrecognized section 987 loss of $100x. Business A is engaged in the business of manufacturing Product X before the contribution, and Business B is engaged in the same business after the contribution. After the contribution, the €100x of assets that are reflected on the books and records of DC1's home office are not used in the business of manufacturing Product X.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) For the reasons described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section (*Example 1*), the contribution results in a termination of the Business A QBU and a deferral event with respect to the Business A QBU, an original deferral QBU; DC1 is an original deferral QBU owner within the meaning of paragraph (g)(3) of this section; Business B is a successor deferral QBU with respect to Business A; and DC2 is a successor deferral QBU owner.


(B) Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for purposes of applying § 1.987-5, all the assets of Business A that are reflected on the books and records of Business B immediately after Business A's termination are treated as not having been transferred and therefore as though they remained on Business A's books and records (notwithstanding the deemed transfer of those assets under § 1.987-8(e)). Accordingly, in the taxable year of the deferral event, Business A is treated as making a remittance of €100x, corresponding to the assets of Business A that are no longer reflected on the books and records of a section 987 QBU, and DC1 is treated as having a remittance proportion with respect to Business A of 0.1, determined by dividing the €100x remittance by the sum of the remittance and the €900x aggregate adjusted basis of the gross assets deemed to remain on Business A's books and records at the end of the taxable year. Thus, but for the application of § 1.987-11(c), DC1 would recognize $10x of section 987 loss in the taxable year of the deferral event. Under § 1.987-11(c), because a current rate election is in effect (and an annual recognition election is not in effect), the loss is instead treated as suspended section 987 loss. DC1's deferred section 987 loss equals $90x, which is the amount of its net unrecognized section 987 loss less the amount of section 987 loss suspended under § 1.987-11(c) (which is $10x).


(C) Under § 1.987-13(b)(1)(i), Business B is a successor suspended loss QBU because, immediately after the termination of the Business A section 987 QBU, a significant portion of the assets of Business A was reflected on the books and records of Business B (an eligible QBU), Business B continued to carry on the trade or business of Business A, and Business B was owned by DC2, a member of the same controlled group as DC1 (which is the original suspended loss QBU owner under § 1.987-13(l)(1)). Therefore, under § 1.987-13(b)(1)(ii), all of Business A's cumulative suspended section 987 loss (including the suspended section 987 loss resulting from the termination of Business A) becomes suspended section 987 loss with respect to Business B. After the transaction, DC1 may recognize its suspended section 987 loss with respect to Business B under § 1.987-11(e) or § 1.987-13(b) through (d), as applicable.


(3) *Example 3: Election to be classified as a corporation*—(i) *Facts.* DC1 owns all of the interests in Entity A, a DE. Entity A conducts Business A, which has net unrecognized section 987 gain of $500x. Entity A elects to be classified as a corporation under § 301.7701-3(c) of this chapter. As a result of the election and pursuant to § 301.7701-3(g)(1)(iv) of this chapter, DC1 is treated as contributing all of the assets and liabilities of Business A to newly-formed CFC1, which has the euro as its functional currency. Immediately after the contribution, the assets and liabilities of Business A are reflected on CFC1's books and records.


(ii) *Analysis.* Under § 1.987-2(c)(2)(ii), DC1's deemed contribution of all of the assets and liabilities of Business A to CFC1 is treated as a transfer of all of the assets and liabilities of Business A to DC1, followed immediately by DC1's contribution of those assets and liabilities to CFC1. Because the deemed transfer from Business A to DC1 is a transfer of substantially all of Business A's assets to DC1, the Business A QBU terminates under § 1.987-8(b)(2). The contribution of Business A's assets is not a deferral event within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section because, immediately after the transaction, no assets of Business A are reflected on the books and records of a successor deferral QBU within the meaning of paragraph (g)(2) of this section due to the fact that the assets of Business A are not reflected on the books and records of a section 987 QBU immediately after the termination. In addition, the requirement of paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section is not met because Business A was owned by a U.S. person and the potential successor deferral QBU, which is owned by CFC1, is not owned by a U.S. person. Accordingly, DC1 recognizes section 987 gain of $500x with respect to Business A under § 1.987-5 without regard to this section. Because the requirement of paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section is not met, the result would be the same even if the assets of Business A were transferred in a section 351 exchange to an existing foreign corporation that had a different functional currency than Business A.


(4) *Example 4: Partial recognition of deferred gain or loss*—(i) *Facts.* DC1 owns all of the interests in Entity A, a DE that conducts Business A in Country X. During year 1, DC1 contributes all of its interests in Entity A to DC2 in an exchange to which section 351 applies. At the time of the contribution, Business A has net unrecognized section 987 gain of $100x and cumulative suspended section 987 loss of $50x. After the contribution, Entity A continues to conduct the same trade or business in Country X (*Business B*). In year 3, as a result of a net transfer of property from Business B to DC2, DC2's remittance proportion with respect to Business B, as determined under § 1.987-5, is 0.25.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) For the reasons described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section *(Example 1*), the contribution of all the interests in Entity A by DC1 to DC2 results in a termination of the Business A QBU and a deferral event with respect to the Business A QBU, an original deferral QBU; DC1 is an original deferral QBU owner within the meaning of paragraph (g)(3) of this section; Business B is a successor deferral QBU with respect to Business A; DC2 is a successor deferral QBU owner; and the $100x of net unrecognized section 987 gain with respect to Business A becomes deferred section 987 gain as a result of the deferral event.


(B) Under § 1.987-13(b)(1)(i), Business B is a successor suspended loss QBU because, immediately after the termination of the Business A section 987 QBU, a significant portion of the assets of Business A was reflected on the books and records of Business B (an eligible QBU), Business B continued to carry on the trade or business of Business A, and Business B was owned by DC2, a member of the same controlled group as DC1 (which is the original suspended loss QBU owner under § 1.987-13(l)(1)). Therefore, under § 1.987-13(b)(1)(ii), all of DC1's cumulative suspended section 987 loss with respect to Business A becomes suspended section 987 loss of DC1 with respect to Business B.


(C) Under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, DC1 recognizes deferred section 987 gain in year 3 as a result of the remittance from Business B to DC2. Under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount of deferred section 987 gain that DC1 recognizes is $25x, which is DC1's outstanding deferred section 987 gain of $100x with respect to Business A multiplied by the remittance proportion of 0.25 of DC2 with respect to Business B for the taxable year as determined under § 1.987-5(b). In addition, under § 1.987-11(e), DC1 recognizes its cumulative suspended section 987 loss to the extent of the deferred section 987 gain recognized in the same recognition grouping.



---

[N] [T.D. 10016, 89 FR 100165, Dec. 11, 2024]




