# § 702.101   Capital measures, capital adequacy, effective date of classification, and notice to NCUA.

(a) *Capital measures.* For purposes of this part, a credit union must determine its capital classification at the end of each calendar quarter using the following measures:


(1) The net worth ratio; and


(2) If determined to be applicable under § 702.103, either the risk-based capital ratio under § 702.104(a) through (c) or the CCULR framework under § 702.104(d).


(b) *Capital adequacy.* (1) Notwithstanding the minimum requirements in this part, a credit union defined as complex must maintain capital commensurate with the level and nature of all risks to which the institution is exposed.


(2) A credit union defined as complex must have a process for assessing its overall capital adequacy in relation to its risk profile and a comprehensive written strategy for maintaining an appropriate level of capital.


(c) *Effective date of capital classification.* For purposes of this part, the effective date of a federally insured credit union's capital classification shall be the most recent to occur of:


(1) *Quarter-end effective date.* The last day of the calendar month following the end of the calendar quarter;


(2) *Corrected capital classification.* The date the credit union received subsequent written notice from NCUA or, if state-chartered, from the appropriate state official, of a decline in capital classification due to correction of an error or misstatement in the credit union's most recent Call Report; or


(3) *Reclassification to lower category.* The date the credit union received written notice from NCUA or, if state-chartered, the appropriate state official, of reclassification on safety and soundness grounds as provided under § 702.102(b) or § 702. 202(d).


(d) *Notice to NCUA by filing Call Report.* (1) Other than by filing a Call Report, a federally insured credit union need not notify the NCUA Board of a change in its capital measures that places the credit union in a lower capital category;


(2) Failure to timely file a Call Report as required under this section in no way alters the effective date of a change in capital classification under paragraph (b) of this section, or the affected credit union's corresponding legal obligations under this part.



---

[N] [80 FR 66706, Oct. 29, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 72804, Dec. 23, 2021]




