# ยง 113.210   Feline Calicivirus Vaccine, Killed Virus.

Feline Calicivirus Vaccine, Killed Virus, shall be prepared from virus-bearing cell culture fluids. Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for preparing seeds for vaccine production. All serials of vaccine shall be prepared from the first through the fifth passage from the Master Seed.


(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.200.


(b) The Master Seed shall be tested for chlamydial agents as prescribed in ยง 113.43.


(c) The immunogenicity of vaccine prepared from the Master Seed in accordance with the Outline of Production shall be established by a method acceptable to Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Vaccine used for this test shall be at the highest passage from the Master Seed and prepared at the minimum preinactivation titer specified in the Outline of Production.


(d) *Test requirements for release.* Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable general requirements prescribed in ยง 113.200 and the special requirements provided in this paragraph. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released.


(1) *Safety.* Vaccinates used in the potency test in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be observed each day during the prechallenge period. If unfavorable reactions occur, including oral lesions, which are attributable to the vaccine, the serial is unsatisfactory. If unfavorable reactions occur which are not attributable to the vaccine, the test is inconclusive and may be repeated. If the test is not repeated, the serial is unsatisfactory.


(2) *Potency.* Bulk or final container samples of completed product shall be treated for potency as follows:


(i) Eight feline calicivirus susceptible cats (five vaccinates and three controls) shall be used as test animals. Throat and nasal swabs shall be collected from each cat and individually tested on susceptible cell cultures for the presence of feline calicivirus. Blood samples shall be drawn and individual serum samples tested for neutralizing antibody. The cats shall be considered suitable for use if all swabs are negative for virus isolation and all serums are negative for calicivirus antibody at the 1:2 final dilution in a 50 percent plaque reduction test or other test of equal sensitivity.


(ii) The five cats used as vaccinates shall be administered one dose of vaccine by the method recommended on the label. If two doses are recommended, the second dose shall be given after the interval recommended on the label.


(iii) Fourteen or more days after the final dose of vaccine, the vaccinates and controls shall each be challenged intranasally with virulent feline calicivirus furnished or approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and observed each day for 14 days postchallenge. The rectal temperature of each animal shall be taken and the presence or absence of clinical signs, particularly lesions on the oral mucosa, noted and recorded each day.


(iv) If three of three controls do not show clinical signs of feline calicivirus infection other than fever, the test is inconclusive and may be repeated.


(v) If a significant difference in clinical signs cannot be demonstrated between vaccinates and controls using a scoring system approved by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and prescribed in the Outline of Production, the serial is unsatisfactory.



---

[N] [50 FR 433, Jan. 4, 1985. Redesignated at 55 FR 35562, Aug. 31, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66784, 66786, Dec. 26, 1991]




