# § 203.37a   Sale of property.

(a) *Sale by owner of record*—(1) *Owner of record requirement.* To be eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA, the property must be purchased from the owner of record and the transaction may not involve any sale or assignment of the sales contract. 


(2) *Supporting documentation.* The mortgagee shall obtain documentation verifying that the seller is the owner of record and must submit this documentation to HUD as part of the application for mortgage insurance, in accordance with § 203.255(b)(12). This documentation may include, but is not limited to, a property sales history report, a copy of the recorded deed from the seller, or other documentation (such as a copy of a property tax bill, title commitment, or binder) demonstrating the seller's ownership. 


(b) *Time restrictions on re-sales*—(1) *General.* The eligibility of a property for a mortgage insured by FHA is dependent on the time that has elapsed between the date the seller acquired the property (based upon the date of settlement) and the date of execution of the sales contract that will result in the FHA mortgage insurance (the re-sale date). The mortgagee shall obtain documentation verifying compliance with the time restrictions described in this paragraph and must submit this documentation to HUD as part of the application for mortgage insurance, in accordance with § 203.255(b). 


(2) *Re-sales occurring 90 days or less following acquisition.* If the re-sale date is 90 days or less following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is not eligible for a mortgage to be insured by FHA. 


(3) *Re-sales occurring between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition.* (i) If the re-sale date is between 91 days and 180 days following acquisition by the seller, the property is generally eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA. 


(ii) However, HUD will require that the mortgagee obtain additional documentation if the re-sale price is 100 percent over the purchase price. Such documentation must include an appraisal from another appraiser. The mortgagee may also document its loan file to support the increased value by establishing that the increased value results from the rehabilitation of the property. 


(iii) HUD may revise the level at which additional documentation is required under § 203.37a(b)(3) at 50 to 150 percent over the original purchase price. HUD will revise this level by _Federal Register_ notice with a 30 day delayed effective date. 


(4) *Authority to address property flipping for re-sales occurring between 91 days and 12 months following acquisition.* (i) If the re-sale date is more than 90 days after the date of acquisition by the seller, but before the end of the twelfth month after the date of acquisition, the property is eligible for a mortgage to be insured by FHA. 


(ii) However, HUD may require that the lender provide additional documentation to support the re-sale value of the property if the re-sale price is 5 percent or greater than the lowest sales price of the property during the preceding 12 months (as evidenced by the contract of sale). At HUD's discretion, such documentation must include, but is not limited to, an appraisal from another appraiser. HUD may exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements. 


(iii) If the additional value documentation supports a value of the property that is more than 5 percent lower than the value supported by the first appraisal, the lower value will be used to calculate the maximum mortgage amount under § 203.18. Otherwise, the value supported by the first appraisal will be used to calculate the maximum mortgage amount. 


(iv) HUD will announce its determination to require additional value documentation through issuance of a _Federal Register_ notice. The requirement for additional value documentation may be established either on a nationwide or regional basis. Further, the _Federal Register_ notice will specify the percentage increase in the re-sale price that will trigger the need for additional documentation, and will specify the acceptable types of documentation. The _Federal Register_ notice may also exclude re-sales of less than a specific dollar amount from the additional value documentation requirements. Any such _Federal Register_ notice, and any subsequent revisions, will be issued at least thirty days before taking effect. 


(v) The level at which additional documentation is required under § 203.37a(b)(4) shall supersede that under § 203.37a(b)(3). 


(5) *Re-sales occurring more than 12 months following acquisition.* If the re-sale date is more than 12 months following the date of acquisition by the seller, the property is eligible for a mortgage insured by FHA. 


(c) *Exceptions to the time restrictions on sales.* The time restrictions on sales described in paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to:


(1) Sales by HUD of Real Estate-Owned (REO) properties under 24 CFR part 291 and of single family assets in revitalization areas pursuant to section 204 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710);


(2) Sales by another agency of the United States Government of REO single family properties pursuant to programs operated by these agencies;


(3) Sales of properties by nonprofit organizations approved to purchase HUD REO single family properties at a discount with resale restrictions;


(4) Sales of properties that were acquired by the sellers by inheritance;


(5) Sales of properties purchased by an employer or relocation agency in connection with the relocation of an employee;


(6) Sales of properties by state- and federally-chartered financial institutions and government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs);


(7) Sales of properties by local and state government agencies; and


(8) Only upon announcement by HUD through issuance of a notice, sales of properties located in areas designated by the President as federal disaster areas. The notice will specify how long the exception will be in effect.


(d) *Sanctions and indemnification.* Failure of a mortgagee to comply with the requirements of this section may result in HUD requesting indemnification of the mortgage loan, or seeking other appropriate remedies under 24 CFR part 25.



---

[N] [68 FR 23375, May 1, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 77116, Dec. 23, 2004; 71 FR 33142, June 7, 2006]




