# ยง 146.88   Injection well operating requirements.

(a) Except during stimulation, the owner or operator must ensure that injection pressure does not exceed 90 percent of the fracture pressure of the injection zone(s) so as to ensure that the injection does not initiate new fractures or propagate existing fractures in the injection zone(s). In no case may injection pressure initiate fractures in the confining zone(s) or cause the movement of injection or formation fluids that endangers a USDW. Pursuant to requirements at ยง 146.82(a)(9), all stimulation programs must be approved by the Director as part of the permit application and incorporated into the permit.


(b) Injection between the outermost casing protecting USDWs and the well bore is prohibited.


(c) The owner or operator must fill the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing with a non-corrosive fluid approved by the Director. The owner or operator must maintain on the annulus a pressure that exceeds the operating injection pressure, unless the Director determines that such requirement might harm the integrity of the well or endanger USDWs.


(d) Other than during periods of well workover (maintenance) approved by the Director in which the sealed tubing-casing annulus is disassembled for maintenance or corrective procedures, the owner or operator must maintain mechanical integrity of the injection well at all times.


(e) The owner or operator must install and use:


(1) Continuous recording devices to monitor: The injection pressure; the rate, volume and/or mass, and temperature of the carbon dioxide stream; and the pressure on the annulus between the tubing and the long string casing and annulus fluid volume; and


(2) Alarms and automatic surface shut-off systems or, at the discretion of the Director, down-hole shut-off systems (e.g., automatic shut-off, check valves) for onshore wells or, other mechanical devices that provide equivalent protection; and


(3) Alarms and automatic down-hole shut-off systems for wells located offshore but within State territorial waters, designed to alert the operator and shut-in the well when operating parameters such as annulus pressure, injection rate, or other parameters diverge beyond permitted ranges and/or gradients specified in the permit.


(f) If a shutdown (*i.e.,* down-hole or at the surface) is triggered or a loss of mechanical integrity is discovered, the owner or operator must immediately investigate and identify as expeditiously as possible the cause of the shutoff. If, upon such investigation, the well appears to be lacking mechanical integrity, or if monitoring required under paragraph (e) of this section otherwise indicates that the well may be lacking mechanical integrity, the owner or operator must:


(1) Immediately cease injection;


(2) Take all steps reasonably necessary to determine whether there may have been a release of the injected carbon dioxide stream or formation fluids into any unauthorized zone;


(3) Notify the Director within 24 hours;


(4) Restore and demonstrate mechanical integrity to the satisfaction of the Director prior to resuming injection; and


(5) Notify the Director when injection can be expected to resume.




