# § 60.45   Emissions and fuel monitoring.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the applicable emissions standard shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) for measuring opacity and a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for measuring SO_2_ emissions, NO_X_ emissions, and either oxygen (O_2_) or carbon dioxide (CO_2_) except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) Certain of the CEMS and COMS requirements under paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to owners or operators under the following conditions:


(1) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that combusts only gaseous or liquid fossil fuel (excluding residual oil) with potential SO_2_ emissions rates of 26 ng/J (0.060 lb/MMBtu) or less and that does not use post-combustion technology to reduce emissions of SO_2_ or PM, COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions and CEMS for measuring SO_2_ emissions are not required if the owner or operator monitors SO_2_ emissions by fuel sampling and analysis or fuel receipts.


(2) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that does not use a flue gas desulfurization device, a CEMS for measuring SO_2_ emissions is not required if the owner or operator monitors SO_2_ emissions by fuel sampling and analysis.


(3) Notwithstanding § 60.13(b), installation of a CEMS for NO_X_ may be delayed until after the initial performance tests under § 60.8 have been conducted. If the owner or operator demonstrates during the performance test that emissions of NO_X_ are less than 70 percent of the applicable standards in § 60.44, a CEMS for measuring NO_X_ emissions is not required. If the initial performance test results show that NO_X_ emissions are greater than 70 percent of the applicable standard, the owner or operator shall install a CEMS for NO_X_ within one year after the date of the initial performance tests under § 60.8 and comply with all other applicable monitoring requirements under this part.


(4) If an owner or operator is not required to and elects not to install any CEMS for either SO_2_ or NO_X_, a CEMS for measuring either O_2_ or CO_2_ is not required.


(5) For affected facilities using a PM CEMS, a bag leak detection system to monitor the performance of a fabric filter (baghouse) according to the most current requirements in § 60.48Da of this part, or an ESP predictive model to monitor the performance of the ESP developed in accordance and operated according to the most current requirements in section § 60.48Da of this part a COMS is not required.


(6) A COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions is not required for an affected facility that does not use post-combustion technology (except a wet scrubber) for reducing PM, SO_2_, or carbon monoxide (CO) emissions, burns only gaseous fuels or fuel oils that contain less than or equal to 0.30 weight percent sulfur, and is operated such that emissions of CO to the atmosphere from the affected source are maintained at levels less than or equal to 0.15 lb/MMBtu on a boiler operating day average basis. Owners and operators of affected sources electing to comply with this paragraph must demonstrate compliance according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) You must monitor CO emissions using a CEMS according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The CO CEMS must be installed, certified, maintained, and operated according to the provisions in § 60.58b(i)(3) of subpart Eb of this part.


(B) Each 1-hour CO emissions average is calculated using the data points generated by the CO CEMS expressed in parts per million by volume corrected to 3 percent oxygen (dry basis).


(C) At a minimum, valid 1-hour CO emissions averages must be obtained for at least 90 percent of the operating hours on a 30-day rolling average basis. The 1-hour averages are calculated using the data points required in § 60.13(h)(2).


(D) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the CO CEMS must be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.


(ii) You must calculate the 1-hour average CO emissions levels for each boiler operating day by multiplying the average hourly CO output concentration measured by the CO CEMS times the corresponding average hourly flue gas flow rate and divided by the corresponding average hourly heat input to the affected source. The 24-hour average CO emission level is determined by calculating the arithmetic average of the hourly CO emission levels computed for each boiler operating day.


(iii) You must evaluate the preceding 24-hour average CO emission level each boiler operating day excluding periods of affected source startup, shutdown, or malfunction. If the 24-hour average CO emission level is greater than 0.15 lb/MMBtu, you must initiate investigation of the relevant equipment and control systems within 24 hours of the first discovery of the high emission incident and, take the appropriate corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust control settings or repair equipment to reduce the 24-hour average CO emission level to 0.15 lb/MMBtu or less.


(iv) You must record the CO measurements and calculations performed according to paragraph (b)(6) of this section and any corrective actions taken. The record of corrective action taken must include the date and time during which the 24-hour average CO emission level was greater than 0.15 lb/MMBtu, and the date, time, and description of the corrective action.


(7) An owner or operator of an affected facility subject to an opacity standard under § 60.42 that elects to not use a COMS because the affected facility burns only fuels as specified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, monitors PM emissions as specified under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, or monitors CO emissions as specified under paragraph (b)(6) of this section, shall conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable limit in § 60.42 by April 29, 2011 or within 45 days after stopping use of an existing COMS, whichever is later, and shall comply with either paragraph (b)(7)(i), (b)(7)(ii), or (b)(7)(iii) of this section. The observation period for Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance tests may be reduced from 3 hours to 60 minutes if all 6-minute averages are less than 10 percent and all individual 15-second observations are less than or equal to 20 percent during the initial 60 minutes of observation. The permitting authority may exempt owners or operators of affected facilities burning only natural gas from the opacity monitoring requirements.


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) or (b)(7)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance tests using the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section according to the applicable schedule in paragraphs (b)(7)(i)(A) through (b)(7)(i)(D) of this section, as determined by the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test results.


(A) If no visible emissions are observed, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 12 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later;


(B) If visible emissions are observed but the maximum 6-minute average opacity is less than or equal to 5 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 6 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later;


(C) If the maximum 6-minute average opacity is greater than 5 percent but less than or equal to 10 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 3 calendar months from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted or within 45 days of the next day that fuel with an opacity standard is combusted, whichever is later; or


(D) If the maximum 6-minute average opacity is greater than 10 percent, a subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test must be completed within 45 calendar days from the date that the most recent performance test was conducted.


(ii) If the maximum 6-minute opacity is less than 10 percent during the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to performing subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, elect to perform subsequent monitoring using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator shall conduct 10 minute observations (during normal operation) each operating day the affected facility fires fuel for which an opacity standard is applicable using Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part and demonstrate that the sum of the occurrences of any visible emissions is not in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (*i.e.*, 30 seconds per 10 minute period). If the sum of the occurrence of any visible emissions is greater than 30 seconds during the initial 10 minute observation, immediately conduct a 30 minute observation. If the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is greater than 5 percent of the observation period (i.e., 90 seconds per 30 minute period), the owner or operator shall either document and adjust the operation of the facility and demonstrate within 24 hours that the sum of the occurrence of visible emissions is equal to or less than 5 percent during a 30 minute observation (i.e., 90 seconds) or conduct a new Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test using the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section within 45 calendar days according to the requirements in § 60.46(b)(3).


(B) If no visible emissions are observed for 10 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable, observations can be reduced to once every 7 operating days during which an opacity standard is applicable. If any visible emissions are observed, daily observations shall be resumed.


(iii) If the maximum 6-minute opacity is less than 10 percent during the most recent Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to performing subsequent Method 9 of appendix A-4 performance tests, elect to perform subsequent monitoring using a digital opacity compliance system according to a site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator. The observations shall be similar, but not necessarily identical, to the requirements in paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section. For reference purposes in preparing the monitoring plan, see OAQPS “Determination of Visible Emission Opacity from Stationary Sources Using Computer-Based Photographic Analysis Systems.” This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Policy Group (D243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emission Measurement Center Preliminary Methods.


(8) A COMS for measuring the opacity of emissions is not required for an affected facility at which the owner or operator installs, calibrates, operates, and maintains a particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS) according to the requirements specified in subpart UUUUU of part 63.


(c) For performance evaluations under § 60.13(c) and calibration checks under § 60.13(d), the following procedures shall be used:


(1) Methods 6, 7, and 3B of appendix A of this part, as applicable, shall be used for the performance evaluations of SO_2_ and NO_X_ continuous monitoring systems. Acceptable alternative methods for Methods 6, 7, and 3B of appendix A of this part are given in § 60.46(d).


(2) Sulfur dioxide or nitric oxide, as applicable, shall be used for preparing calibration gas mixtures under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part.


(3) For affected facilities burning fossil fuel(s), the span value for a continuous monitoring system measuring the opacity of emissions shall be 80, 90, or 100 percent. For a continuous monitoring system measuring sulfur oxides or NO_X_ the span value shall be determined using one of the following procedures:


(i) Except as provided under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, SO_2_ and NO_X_ span values shall be determined as follows:


(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to use the SO_2_ and NO_X_ span values determined according to sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.


(4) All span values computed under paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section for burning combinations of fossil fuels shall be rounded to the nearest 500 ppm. Span values that are computed under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section shall be rounded off according to the applicable procedures in section 2 of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.


(5) For a fossil-fuel-fired steam generator that simultaneously burns fossil fuel and nonfossil fuel, the span value of all CEMS shall be subject to the Administrator's approval.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) For any CEMS installed under paragraph (a) of this section, the following conversion procedures shall be used to convert the continuous monitoring data into units of the applicable standards (ng/J, lb/MMBtu):


(1) When a CEMS for measuring O_2_ is selected, the measurement of the pollutant concentration and O_2_ concentration shall each be on a consistent basis (wet or dry). Alternative procedures approved by the Administrator shall be used when measurements are on a wet basis. When measurements are on a dry basis, the following conversion procedure shall be used:


(2) When a CEMS for measuring CO_2_ is selected, the measurement of the pollutant concentration and CO_2_ concentration shall each be on a consistent basis (wet or dry) and the following conversion procedure shall be used:


(f) The values used in the equations under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section are derived as follows:


(1) E = pollutant emissions, ng/J (lb/MMBtu).


(2) C = pollutant concentration, ng/dscm (lb/dscf), determined by multiplying the average concentration (ppm) for each one-hour period by 4.15 × 10
4 M ng/dscm per ppm (2.59 × 10_−9_ M lb/dscf per ppm) where M = pollutant molecular weight, g/g-mole (lb/lb-mole). M = 64.07 for SO_2_ and 46.01 for NO_X_.


(3) %O_2_, %CO_2_ = O_2_ or CO_2_ volume (expressed as percent), determined with equipment specified under paragraph (a) of this section.


(4) F, F_c_ = a factor representing a ratio of the volume of dry flue gases generated to the calorific value of the fuel combusted (F), and a factor representing a ratio of the volume of CO_2_ generated to the calorific value of the fuel combusted (F_c_), respectively. Values of F and F_c_ are given as follows:


(i) For anthracite coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2,723 × 10_−17_ dscm/J (10,140 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.532 × 10_−17_ scm CO_2_/J (1,980 scf CO_2_/MMBtu).


(ii) For subbituminous and bituminous coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2.637 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (9,820 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.486 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,810 scf CO_2_/MMBtu).


(iii) For liquid fossil fuels including crude, residual, and distillate oils, F = 2.476 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (9,220 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.384 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,430 scf CO_2_/MMBtu).


(iv) For gaseous fossil fuels, F = 2.347 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (8,740 dscf/MMBtu). For natural gas, propane, and butane fuels, F_c_ = 0.279 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,040 scf CO_2_/MMBtu) for natural gas, 0.322 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,200 scf CO_2_/MMBtu) for propane, and 0.338 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,260 scf CO_2_/MMBtu) for butane.


(v) For bark F = 2.589 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (9,640 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.500 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,840 scf CO_2_/MMBtu). For wood residue other than bark F = 2.492 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (9,280 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.494 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,860 scf CO_2_/MMBtu).


(vi) For lignite coal as classified according to ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), F = 2.659 × 10_−7_ dscm/J (9,900 dscf/MMBtu) and F_c_ = 0.516 × 10_−7_ scm CO_2_/J (1,920 scf CO_2_/MMBtu).


(5) The owner or operator may use the following equation to determine an F factor (dscm/J or dscf/MMBtu) on a dry basis (if it is desired to calculate F on a wet basis, consult the Administrator) or Fc factor (scm CO_2_/J, or scf CO_2_/MMBtu) on either basis in lieu of the F or F_c_ factors specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section:


(i) %H, %C, %S, %N, and %O are content by weight of hydrogen, carbon, sulfur, nitrogen, and O_2_ (expressed as percent), respectively, as determined on the same basis as GCV by ultimate analysis of the fuel fired, using ASTM D3178 or D3176 (solid fuels), or computed from results using ASTM D1137, D1945, or D1946 (gaseous fuels) as applicable. (These five methods are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.)


(ii) GVC is the gross calorific value (kJ/kg, Btu/lb) of the fuel combusted determined by the ASTM test methods D2015 or D5865 for solid fuels and D1826 for gaseous fuels as applicable. (These three methods are incorporated by reference, see § 60.17.)


(iii) For affected facilities which fire both fossil fuels and nonfossil fuels, the F or Fc value shall be subject to the Administrator's approval.


(6) For affected facilities firing combinations of fossil fuels or fossil fuels and wood residue, the F or Fc factors determined by paragraphs (f)(4) or (f)(5) of this section shall be prorated in accordance with the applicable formula as follows:


(g) Excess emission and monitoring system performance reports shall be submitted to the Administrator semiannually for each six-month period in the calendar year. All semiannual reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each six-month period. Each excess emission and MSP report shall include the information required in § 60.7(c). Periods of excess emissions and monitoring systems (MS) downtime that shall be reported are defined as follows:


(1) *Opacity.* Excess emissions are defined as any six-minute period during which the average opacity of emissions exceeds 20 percent opacity, except that one six-minute average per hour of up to 27 percent opacity need not be reported.


(i) For sources subject to the opacity standard of § 60.42(b)(1), excess emissions are defined as any six-minute period during which the average opacity of emissions exceeds 35 percent opacity, except that one six-minute average per hour of up to 42 percent opacity need not be reported.


(ii) For sources subject to the opacity standard of § 60.42(b)(2), excess emissions are defined as any six-minute period during which the average opacity of emissions exceeds 32 percent opacity, except that one six-minute average per hour of up to 39 percent opacity need not be reported.


(2) *Sulfur dioxide.* Excess emissions for affected facilities are defined as:


(i) For affected facilities electing not to comply with § 60.43(d), any three-hour period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of three contiguous one-hour periods) of SO_2_ as measured by a CEMS exceed the applicable standard in § 60.43; or


(ii) For affected facilities electing to comply with § 60.43(d), any 30 operating day period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of all one-hour periods during the 30 operating days) of SO_2_ as measured by a CEMS exceed the applicable standard in § 60.43. Facilities complying with the 30-day SO_2_ standard shall use the most current associated SO_2_ compliance and monitoring requirements in §§ 60.48Da and 60.49Da of subpart Da of this part or §§ 60.45b and 60.47b of subpart Db of this part, as applicable.


(3) *Nitrogen oxides.* Excess emissions for affected facilities using a CEMS for measuring NO_X_ are defined as:


(i) For affected facilities electing not to comply with § 60.44(e), any three-hour period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of three contiguous one-hour periods) exceed the applicable standards in § 60.44; or


(ii) For affected facilities electing to comply with § 60.44(e), any 30 operating day period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of all one-hour periods during the 30 operating days) of NO_X_ as measured by a CEMS exceed the applicable standard in § 60.44. Facilities complying with the 30-day NO_X_ standard shall use the most current associated NO_X_ compliance and monitoring requirements in §§ 60.48Da and 60.49Da of subpart Da of this part.


(4) *Particulate matter.* Excess emissions for affected facilities using a CEMS for measuring PM are defined as any boiler operating day period during which the average emissions (arithmetic average of all operating one-hour periods) exceed the applicable standards in § 60.42. Affected facilities using PM CEMS must follow the most current applicable compliance and monitoring provisions in §§ 60.48Da and 60.49Da of subpart Da of this part.


(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the opacity limits in § 60.42 that elects to monitor emissions according to the requirements in § 60.45(b)(7) shall maintain records according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable to the visible emissions monitoring method used.


(1) For each performance test conducted using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Dates and time intervals of all opacity observation periods;


(ii) Name, affiliation, and copy of current visible emission reading certification for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test; and


(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets;


(2) For each performance test conducted using Method 22 of appendix A-4 of this part, the owner or operator shall keep the records including the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Dates and time intervals of all visible emissions observation periods;


(ii) Name and affiliation for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test;


(iii) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets; and


(iv) Documentation of any adjustments made and the time the adjustments were completed to the affected facility operation by the owner or operator to demonstrate compliance with the applicable monitoring requirements.


(3) For each digital opacity compliance system, the owner or operator shall maintain records and submit reports according to the requirements specified in the site-specific monitoring plan approved by the Administrator.



---

[N] [60 FR 65415, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 74 FR 5077, Jan. 28, 2009; 76 FR 3522, Jan. 20, 2011; 77 FR 9447, Feb. 16, 2012]




