# § 60.2740   What records must I keep?

You must maintain the items (as applicable) as specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (e) through (w) of this section for a period of at least 5 years:


(a) Calendar date of each record;


(b) Records of the data described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section:


(1) The CISWI charge dates, times, weights, and hourly charge rates;


(2) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;


(3) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system every 15 minutes of operation or amperage to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;


(4) Liquor pH as introduced to the wet scrubber every 15 minutes of operation, as applicable;


(5) For affected CISWIs that establish operating limits for controls other than wet scrubbers under § 60.2675(d) through (g) or § 60.2680, you must maintain data collected for all operating parameters used to determine compliance with the operating limits. For energy recovery units using activated carbon injection or a dry scrubber, you must also maintain records of the load fraction and corresponding sorbent injection rate records; and


(6) If a fabric filter is used to comply with the emission limitations, you must record the date, time, and duration of each alarm and the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of operating time during each 6-month period that the alarm sounds, calculated as specified in § 60.2675(c).


(7) If you monitor clinker production in accordance with § 60.2730(t):


(i) Hourly clinker rate produced if clinker production is measured directly;


(ii) Hourly measured kiln feed rates and calculated clinker production rates if clinker production is not measured directly;


(iii) 30-day rolling averages for mercury in pounds per million tons of clinker produced;


(iv) The initial and quarterly accuracy of the system of measruing hourly clinker production (or feed mass flow).


(c)-(d) [Reserved]


(e) Identification of calendar dates and times for which data show a deviation from the operating limits in table 3 of this subpart or a deviation from other operating limits established under § 60.2675(d) through (g) or § 60.2680 with a description of the deviations, reasons for such deviations, and a description of corrective actions taken.


(f) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits and/or to establish operating limits, as applicable. Retain a copy of the complete test report including calculations.


(g) Records showing the names of CISWI operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.2660(a) as required by § 60.2660(b), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews.


(h) Records showing the names of the CISWI operators who have completed the operator training requirements under § 60.2635, met the criteria for qualification under § 60.2645, and maintained or renewed their qualification under § 60.2650 or § 60.2655. Records must include documentation of training, the dates of the initial and refresher training, and the dates of their qualification and all subsequent renewals of such qualifications.


(i) For each qualified operator, the phone and/or pager number at which they can be reached during operating hours.


(j) Records of calibration of any monitoring devices as required under § 60.2730.


(k) Equipment vendor specifications and related operation and maintenance requirements for the incinerator, emission controls, and monitoring equipment.


(l) The information listed in § 60.2660(a).


(m) On a daily basis, keep a log of the quantity of waste burned and the types of waste burned (always required).


(n) Maintain records of the annual air pollution control device inspections that are required for each CISWI subject to the emissions limits in table 2 of this subpart or tables 6 through 9 of this subpart, any required maintenance and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the state regulatory agency.


(o) For continuously monitored pollutants or parameters, you must document and keep a record of the following parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems. If you monitor emissions with a CEMS, you must indicate which data are CEMS data during startup and shutdown:


(1) All 6-minute average levels of opacity;


(2) All 1-hour average concentrations of sulfur dioxide emissions;


(3) All 1-hour average concentrations of nitrogen oxides emissions;


(4) All 1-hour average concentrations of carbon monoxide emissions;


(5) All 1-hour average concentrations of particulate matter emissions;


(6) All 1-hour average concentrations of mercury emissions;


(7) All 1-hour average concentrations of HCl CEMS outputs;


(8) All 1-hour average percent oxygen concentrations; and


(9) All 1-hour average PM CPMS readings or particulate matter CEMS outputs.


(p) Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times and durations.


(q) If you choose to stack test less frequently than annually, consistent with § 60.2720(a) through (c), you must keep annual records that document that your emissions in the previous stack test(s) were less than 75 percent of the applicable emission limit and document that there was no change in source operations including fuel composition and operation of air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past year.


(r) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (*i.e.,* process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(s) Records of all required maintenance performed on the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.


(t) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(u) For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to § 241.3(b)(1) of this chapter, you must keep a record which documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria under § 241.3(d)(1). If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to § 241.3(b)(4), you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfies the definition of processing in § 241.2 and each of the legitimacy criteria in § 241.3(d)(1) of this chapter. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under § 241.3(c), you must keep a record that documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process. For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials as fuel per § 241.4, you must keep records documenting that the material is a listed non-waste under § 241.4(a).


(v) Records of the criteria used to establish that the unit qualifies as a small power production facility under section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)) and that the waste material the unit is proposed to burn is homogeneous.


(w) Records of the criteria used to establish that the unit qualifies as a cogeneration facility under section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)) and that the waste material the unit is proposed to burn is homogeneous.




