# § 210.7   Service of process and other documents; publication of notices.

(a) *Manner of service.* (1) The service of process and all documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge—and the service of all documents issued by parties under §§ 210.27 through 210.34 of this part—shall be in accordance with § 201.16 of this chapter, unless the Commission, the administrative law judge, or this or another section of this part specifically provides otherwise.




(2) The service of all initial determinations as defined in § 210.42, all cease and desist orders as set forth in § 210.50(a)(1), all show cause orders issued under § 210.16(b)(1)(i), and all documents containing confidential business information as defined in § 201.6(a) of this chapter, issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge on a private party, shall be effected by serving a copy of the document by express delivery, as defined in § 201.16(e) of this chapter, on the person to be served, on a member of the partnership to be served, on the president, secretary, other executive officer, or member of the board of directors of the corporation, association, or other organization to be served, or, if an attorney represents a person or entity to be served in connection with an investigation under part 210, by serving a copy by express delivery on such attorney.


(3) Whenever the Commission effects service of documents issued by or on behalf of the Commission or the administrative law judge upon the private parties by overnight delivery, service upon the Office of Unfair Import Investigations shall also be deemed to have occurred by overnight delivery.


(b) *Designation of a single attorney or representative for service of process.* The service list prepared by the Secretary for each investigation will contain the name and address of no more than one attorney or other representative for each party to the investigation. In the event that two or more attorneys or other persons represent one party to the investigation, the party must select one of their number to be the lead attorney or representative for service of process. The lead attorney or representative for service of process shall state, at the time of the filing of its entry of appearance with the Secretary, that it has been so designated by the party it represents. (Only those persons authorized to receive confidential business information under a protective order issued pursuant to § 210.34(a) are eligible to be included on the service list for documents containing confidential business information.)


(c) *Publication of notices.* (1) Notice of action by the Commission or an administrative law judge will be published in the _Federal Register_ only as specifically provided in § 201.10, paragraph (c)(2) of this section, by another section in this chapter, or by order of an administrative law judge or the Commission.


(2) When an administrative law judge or the Commission determines to amend or supplement a notice published in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, notice of the amendment will be published in the _Federal Register._


---

[N] [60 FR 53119, Oct. 12, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 13960, Mar. 23, 2007; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013; 90 FR 238, Jan. 3, 2025]




