# § 351.401   In general.

(a) *Introduction.* In general terms, an antidumping analysis involves a comparison of export price or constructed export price in the United States with normal value in the foreign market. This section establishes certain general rules that apply to the calculation of export price, constructed export price and normal value. (*See* section 772, section 773, and section 773A of the Act.)


(b) *Adjustments in general.* In making adjustments to export price, constructed export price, or normal value, the Secretary will adhere to the following principles:


(1) The interested party that is in possession of the relevant information has the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Secretary the amount and nature of a particular adjustment; and


(2) The Secretary will not double-count adjustments.


(c) *Use of price net of price adjustments.* In calculating export price, constructed export price, and normal value (where normal value is based on price), the Secretary normally will use a price that is net of price adjustments, as defined in § 351.102(b), that are reasonably attributable to the subject merchandise or the foreign like product (whichever is applicable). The Secretary will not accept a price adjustment that is made after the time of sale unless the interested party demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Secretary, its entitlement to such an adjustment.


(d) *Delayed payment or pre-payment of expenses.* Where cost is the basis for determining the amount of an adjustment to export price, constructed export price, or normal value, the Secretary will not factor in any delayed payment or pre-payment of expenses by the exporter or producer.


(e) *Adjustments for movement expenses*—(1) *Original place of shipment.* In making adjustments for movement expenses to establish export price or constructed export price under section 772(c)(2)(A) of the Act, or normal value under section 773(a)(6)(B)(ii) of the Act, the Secretary normally will consider the production facility as being the “original place of shipment. However, where the Secretary bases export price, constructed export price, or normal value on a sale by an unaffiliated reseller, the Secretary may treat the original place from which the reseller shipped the merchandise as the “original place of shipment.”


(2) *Warehousing.* The Secretary will consider warehousing expenses that are incurred after the subject merchandise or foreign like product leaves the original place of shipment as movement expenses.




(f) *Treatment of affiliated parties in antidumping proceedings*—(1) *In general.* In an antidumping proceeding under this part, the Secretary will normally treat two or more affiliated parties as a single entity if the Secretary concludes that there is a significant potential for manipulation of prices, production, or other export decisions.


(2) *Significant potential for manipulation.* In identifying a significant potential for the manipulation of price, production or other export decisions, the factors the Secretary may consider for all affiliated parties include:


(i) The level of common ownership;


(ii) The extent to which managerial employees or board members of one firm sit on the board of directors of an affiliated firm; and


(iii) Whether operations are intertwined, such as through the sharing of sales and export information; involvement in production, pricing, and other commercial decisions; the sharing of facilities or employees; or significant transactions between the affiliated parties.


(3) *Additional considerations for affiliated parties with access to production facilities in determining the significant potential for manipulation.* In determining whether there is a significant potential for manipulation, if the Secretary determines that affiliated parties have, or will have, access to production facilities for similar or identical products, the Secretary shall consider if any of those facilities would require substantial retooling in order to restructure manufacturing priorities.


(4) *Exceptions.* If the following affiliated parties do not produce similar or identical products to the subject merchandise or export subject merchandise to the United States, the Secretary will normally not treat those parties as part of a single entity for purposes of the Secretary's calculations under this provision:


(i) Input suppliers;


(ii) Sellers of the foreign like product in the home market; and


(iii) Affiliated entities for which the Secretary determines that treating those parties as a single entity would be otherwise inappropriate based on record information.


(g) *Allocation of expenses and price adjustments*—(1) *In general.* The Secretary may consider allocated expenses and price adjustments when transaction-specific reporting is not feasible, provided the Secretary is satisfied that the allocation method used does not cause inaccuracies or distortions.


(2) *Reporting allocated expenses and price adjustments.* Any party seeking to report an expense or a price adjustment on an allocated basis must demonstrate to the Secretary's satisfaction that the allocation is calculated on as specific a basis as is feasible, and must explain why the allocation methodology used does not cause inaccuracies or distortions.


(3) *Feasibility.* In determining the feasibility of transaction-specific reporting or whether an allocation is calculated on as specific a basis as is feasible, the Secretary will take into account the records maintained by the party in question in the ordinary course of its business, as well as such factors as the normal accounting practices in the country and industry in question and the number of sales made by the party during the period of investigation or review.


(4) *Expenses and price adjustments relating to merchandise not subject to the proceeding.* The Secretary will not reject an allocation method solely because the method includes expenses incurred, or price adjustments made, with respect to sales of merchandise that does not constitute subject merchandise or a foreign like product (whichever is applicable).


(h) [Reserved]


(i) *Date of sale.* In identifying the date of sale of the subject merchandise or foreign like product, the Secretary normally will use the date of invoice, as recorded in the exporter or producer's records kept in the ordinary course of business. However, the Secretary may use a date other than the date of invoice if the Secretary is satisfied that a different date better reflects the date on which the exporter or producer establishes the material terms of sale.



---

[N] [62 FR 27379, May 19, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 16518, Mar. 28, 2008; 81 FR 15645, Mar. 24, 2016; 89 FR 101764, Dec. 16, 2024]




