# § 410.61   Plan of treatment requirements for outpatient rehabilitation services.

(a) *Basic requirement.* Outpatient rehabilitation services (including services furnished by a qualified physical or occupational therapist in private practice), must be furnished under a written plan of treatment that meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) *Establishment of the plan.* The plan is established before treatment is begun by one of the following:


(1) A physician.


(2) A physical therapist who furnishes the physical therapy services.


(3) A speech-language pathologist who furnishes the speech-language pathology services.


(4) An occupational therapist who furnishes the occupational therapy services.


(5) A nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant.


(c) *Content of the plan.* The plan prescribes the type, amount, frequency, and duration of the physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech-language pathology services to be furnished to the individual, and indicates the diagnosis and anticipated goals.


(d) *Changes in the plan.* Any changes in the plan—


(1) Are made in writing and signed by one of the following:


(i) The physician.


(ii) The physical therapist who furnishes the physical therapy services.


(iii) The occupational therapist that furnishes the occupational therapy services.


(iv) The speech-language pathologist who furnishes the speech-language pathology services.


(v) A registered professional nurse or a staff physician, in accordance with oral orders from the physician, physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech-language pathologist who furnishes the services.


(vi) A nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant.


(2) The changes are incorporated in the plan immediately.



---

[N] [53 FR 6638, Mar. 2, 1988; 53 FR 12945, Apr. 20, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 38680, Sept. 20, 1989; 54 FR 46614, Nov. 6, 1989. Redesignated at 56 FR 8854, Mar. 1, 1991; 56 FR 23022, May 20, 1991; 63 FR 58907, Nov. 2, 1998; 67 FR 80040, Dec. 31, 2002; 72 FR 66399, Nov. 27, 2007; 77 FR 69363, Nov. 16, 2012; 83 FR 60073, Nov. 23, 2018]




