# ยง 1.101   Definitions.

The definitions set forth in this section apply for purposes of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in this chapter:


(a) *Commission* means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.


(b) *Chairman* means the Chairman of the Commission.


(c) *Commissioner* and *Member* mean a member of the Commission.


(d) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Commission.


(e) *Executive Director* means the Executive Director of the Commission.


(f) *General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Commission.


(g) *DOE Act* means the Department of Energy Organization Act.


(h) *DOE* means the Department of Energy.


(i) *Administrative law judge* means an officer appointed under section 3105 of title 5 of the United States Code.


(j) *Attorney* means an attorney admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States or the highest court of any State, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or any other person with the requisite qualifications to represent others, who acts in a representative capacity for any participant before the Commission.


(k) *State Commission* means the regulatory body of any State or municipality having jurisdiction to regulate rates or charges for the sale of electric energy or natural gas to consumers or for the transportation of oil by pipeline within the State or municipality.


(l) *Oath* includes *affirmation* and *sworn* includes *affirmed.*


---

[N] [Order 225, 47 FR 19022, May 3, 1982; 48 FR 786, Jan. 7, 1983]




