# ยง 550.301   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Agency* means an Executive agency as defined by section 105 of Title 5, United States Code.


*Allotment* means a recurring specified deduction for a legal purpose from pay authorized by an employee to be paid to an allottee.


*Allottee* means the person or institution to whom an allotment is made payable.


*Allotter* means the employee from whose pay an allotment is made. 


*Association of management officials and/or supervisors* means an association composed of either management officials and/or supervisors with which the agency has established official relationships. 


*Combined Federal Campaign* means an organization of voluntary health and welfare agencies authorized to solicit charitable contributions in a local area in accordance with arrangements prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management under Executive Order 10927.


*Continental United States* means the several States and the District of Columbia, but excluding Alaska and Hawaii.


*Dues* means the regular periodic amount specified by an allotter to be withheld from his or her pay which is required to maintain the allotter as a member in good standing in a labor organization or association of management officials and/or supervisors or other organization.


*Employee* means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*Foreign affairs agency* means the Department of State, the International Communications Agency, the Agency for International Development and its successor agency or agencies.


*Labor organization* means a labor organization as defined by section 7103(a)(4) of title 5, United States Code, unless specified otherwise.



---

[N] [46 FR 2325, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 65 FR 44644, July 19, 2000; 71 FR 66828, Nov. 17, 2006]




