# § 1601.20   Processing of appeals.

(a) *Right of appeal.* If a request has been denied in whole or in part, the requester may appeal the denial to the CSB's FOIA Appeals Officer.


(b) *Definitions.*

(1) *FOIA Appeal* means an independent review of an adverse determination initial determination made in response to a FOIA request.


(2) *FOIA Appeals Officer* means the person designated by the Chairperson to process and to decide a FOIA appeal.


(c) *Requirements for making an appeal.* (1) A requester may appeal any adverse determinations to the FOIA Appeals Officer. Examples of adverse determinations are provided in § 1601.14(e).


(2) The requester must make the appeal in writing. Requesters can submit appeals by mail or email in accordance with the following requirements herein, which are also listed on the CSB's Web site. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal” or “FOIA Appeal.”


(i) For hard copy requests: The envelope and the request both should addressed to: FOIA Appeals Officer—FOIA Appeal, Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, 1750 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Suite 910, Washington, DC 20006.


(ii) For electronic requests: The appeal should addressed to the FOIA Appeals Officer and may be submitted by email to *foiaappeals@csb.gov.*

(3) To be considered timely, an appeal must be postmarked, or in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted, within ninety (90) calendar days after the date of the adverse determination that is the subject of the appeal. For purposes of apply the ninety (90) calendar day deadline, the CSB will treat an appeal that is improperly addressed as being received on the date on the date that it is actually received by the CSB, or would have been received with the exercise of due diligence, by the FOIA Appeals Officer.


(4) The appeal should clearly identify the adverse determination that is being appealed and the assigned request number.


(5) An appeal should also include a copy of the initial request, a copy of the letter denying the request in whole or in part, and a statement of the circumstances, reasons, or arguments advanced in support of disclosure of the requested record.


(d) *Adjudication of appeals.* (1) The CSB FOIA Appeals Officer or designee will act on behalf of the CSB's Chief FOIA Officer on all appeals under this section.


(2) An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of FOIA litigation.


(3) On receipt of any appeal involving classified information, the FOIA Appeals Officer must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.


(e) *Decisions on appeals.* The CSB must provide its decision on an appeal in writing. The disposition of an appeal will be in writing and will constitute the final action of the CSB on a request. A decision that upholds the CSB's determination in whole or in part will contain a statement that identifies the reasons for the affirmance, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will also inform the requester of the mediation services offered by the OGIS of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If the CSB's decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the CSB must notify the requester of that determination in writing. The CSB must then further process the request in accordance with that appeal determination and will respond directly to the requester.


(f) *Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.* Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If the CSB agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.


(g) *When appeal is required.* Before seeking review by a court of the CSB's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.




