# ยง 1206.301   Value basis for royalty computation.

(a) The gross value for royalty purposes shall be the sale or contract unit price times the number of units sold, *Provided, however,* That where the authorized officer determines:


(1) That a contract of sale or other business arrangement between the lessee and a purchaser of some or all of the commodities produced from the lease is not a bona fide transaction between independent parties because it is based in whole or in part upon considerations other than the value of the commodities, or 


(2) That no bona fide sales price is received for some or all of such commodities because the lessee is consuming them, the authorized officer shall determine their gross value, taking into account: (i) All prices received by the lessee in all bona fide transactions, (ii) Prices paid for commodities of like quality produced from the same general area, and (iii) Such other relevant factors as the authorized officer may deem appropriate; and *Provided further,* That in a situation where an estimated value is used, the authorized officer shall require the payment of such additional royalties, or allow such credits or refunds as may be necessary to adjust royalty payment to reflect the actual gross value.


(b) The lessee is required to certify that the values reported for royalty purposes are bona fide sales not involving considerations other than the sale of the mineral, and he may be required by the authorized officer to supply supporting information. 



---

[N] [43 FR 10341, Mar. 13, 1978. Redesignated at 48 FR 36588, Aug. 12, 1983, and amended at 48 FR 44795, Sept. 30, 1983. Further redesignated at 51 FR 15212, Apr. 22, 1986. Redesignated at 53 FR 39461, Oct. 7, 1988]




