# § 148.82   Diplomatic, consular, and other privileged personnel.

(a) *Inviolability of the person of diplomatic personnel.* The person of the representatives of foreign governments and members of their families set forth below shall be free from arrest, search, or detention: 


(1) Ambassadors, ministers, chargés d'affaires, secretaries, counselors, attachés of foreign embassies and legations, and other heads of diplomatic missions or members of the diplomatic staffs of such missions, accredited to the United States or en route between other countries to which accredited and their own countries. 


(2) Members of the families forming part of the households of the diplomatic personnel listed in the preceding subparagraph, who are accompanying them or traveling separately to join them incidental to their official travel, excluding those members of families who are U.S. nationals. 


(3) Members of the administrative and technical staffs of diplomatic missions accredited to the United States and members of their families forming part of their household, all of whom are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States who are accompanying them or traveling separately to join them incidental to their official travel. 


(4) Diplomatic and consular couriers. 


(b) *Exemption for baggage and effects and admission without entry.* The baggage and effects of the following representatives of foreign governments shall be admitted free of duty without the filing of an entry, upon the request of the Department of State and appropriate instructions from the United States Customs Service in each instance: 


(1) Ambassadors, ministers, chargés d'affaires, secretaries, counselors, attachés of embassies and legations, and other members of the diplomatic staffs of such missions accredited to the United States or en route to or from other countries to which assigned, as well as recognized consular officers, and the immediate families, suites, and servants of all the above under subheading 9806.00.05, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) (19 U.S.C. 1202). 


(2) Members of the administrative and technical staffs of diplomatic missions and members of their families forming part of their households, all of whom are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States under subheading 9806.00.05, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202). Unless more extensive privileges are provided in treaties or special agreements between the United States and the foreign country concerned, this privilege is limited to baggage and effects imported at the time of first installation. 


(3) Consular employees who are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States. Unless more extensive privileges are provided in treaties or special agreements between the United States and the foreign country concerned, this privilege is limited to articles imported at the time of first installation. 


(4) Other high officials of foreign governments and such distinguished foreign visitors as may be designated by the Department of State, and their immediate families under subheading 9806.00.25, HTSUS. 


(5) Foreign government personnel entitled to privileges under statutes or treaties under subheading 9806.00.30, HTSUS. 


(6) Diplomatic couriers, limited to accompanying baggage and effects. 


(c) *Absence of special request.* In the absence of special request from the Department of State prior to the arrival of representatives of foreign governments enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, their immediate families as well as accompanying suites and servants, and diplomatic couriers, their baggage and effects may be admitted free of duty without entry upon presentation of their credentials or other proof of their identity. 


(d) *Delay in arrival of baggage or effects.* If by accident or unavoidable delay in shipment the baggage or other effects of a person entitled to the privileges of this section shall arrive after him upon satisfactory proof of ownership, such baggage or effects may be passed free of duty without entry. 


(e) *Inspection of baggage*—(1) *Exemption for representatives of foreign governments.* The personal baggage of the following representatives of foreign governments and their families is ordinarily exempt from inspection: 


(i) Ambassadors, ministers, chargés d'affaires, secretaries, counselors, attachés of foreign embassies or legations, and other members of the diplomatic staffs of such missions, who are accredited to the United States or en route between other countries to which accredited and their own countries and members of their families forming part of their household who are not nationals of the United States. 


(ii) Consular officers recognized by the United States and members of their families forming part of their household who are not nationals or permanent residents of the United States, provided the baggage accompanies them. 


(iii) Diplomatic couriers, provided the baggage accompanies them. 


(2) *Conditions permitting inspection.* The personal baggage of representatives of foreign governments listed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and members of their families may be inspected if there is serious reason to believe that it contains: 


(i) Articles other than those for the personal use of such persons or for the use of their establishments or for official mission use. 


(ii) In the case of consular officers and their families, articles intended for consumption in excess of the quantities necessary for direct use by the person concerned. 


(iii) Articles which are absolutely or conditionally prohibited importation or exportation under the laws or regulations of the United States, or which are subject to the quarantine laws or regulations of the United States. 


(3) *Presence of foreign representative.* When inspection of personal baggage is permitted under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the inspection shall take place only in the presence of the affected representative of a foreign government, or his authorized agent. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-27, 38 FR 2449, Jan. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. 89-1, 53 FR 51266, Dec. 21, 1988]




