# § 721.9790   Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2′-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxypropyl) amino]- 6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2′,2″-nitrilo-tris[ethanol] (1:2); Benzenesulfonic acid, 5-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-[2-[4-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-sulfophenyl]ethenyl]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2′,2″-nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as a Benzenesulfonic acid, 2,2′-(1,2-ethenediyl)bis[5-[[4-[bis(2hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2′,2″-nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2); Benzenesulfonic acid, 5-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-[2-[4-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxypropyl)amino]-6-[(3-sulfophenyl)amino]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl]amino]-2-sulfophenyl] ethenyl]-, disodium salt, compd. with 2,2′,2″-nitrilotris[ethanol] (1:2) (PMN P-98-716; CAS Nos. 198716-46-0 and 198716-48-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (v)(1), (v)(2), (w)(1), (w)(2), (x)(1), and (x)(2).


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notfication requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 373, Jan. 5, 2000]




