# § 1.170A-12   Valuation of a remainder interest in real property for contributions made after July 31, 1969.

(a) *In general.* (1) Section 170(f)(4) provides that, in determining the value of a remainder interest in real property for purposes of section 170, depreciation and depletion of such property shall be taken into account. Depreciation shall be computed by the straight line method and depletion shall be computed by the cost depletion method. Section 170(f)(4) and this section apply only in the case of a contribution, not made in trust, of a remainder interest in real property made after July 31, 1969, for which a deduction is otherwise allowable under section 170. 


(2) In the case of the contribution of a remainder interest in real property consisting of a combination of both depreciable and nondepreciable property, or of both depletable and nondepletable property, and allocation of the fair market value of the property at the time of the contribution shall be made between the depreciable and nondepreciable property, or the depletable and nondepletable property, and depreciation or depletion shall be taken into account only with respect to the depreciable or depletable property. The expected value at the end of its “estimated useful life” (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) of that part of the remainder interest consisting of depreciable property shall be considered to be nondepreciable property for purposes of the required allocation. In the case of the contribution of a remainder interest in stock in a cooperative housing corporation (as defined in section 216(b)(1)), an allocation of the fair market value of the stock at the time of the contribution shall be made to reflect the respective values of the depreciable and nondepreciable property underlying such stock, and depreciation on the depreciable part shall be taken into account for purposes of valuing the remainder interest in such stock. 


(3) If the remainder interest that has been contributed follows only one life, the value of the remainder interest shall be computed under the rules contained in paragraph (b) of this section. If the remainder interest that has been contributed follows a term for years, the value of the remainder interest shall be computed under the rules contained in paragraph (c) of this section. If the remainder interest that has been contributed is dependent upon the continuation or the termination of more than one life or upon a term certain concurrent with one or more lives, the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section shall apply. In every case where it is provided in this section that the rules contained in § 25.2512-5 (or, for certain prior periods, § 25.2512-5A) of this chapter (Gift Tax Regulations) apply, such rules shall apply notwithstanding the general effective date for such rules contained in paragraph (a) of such section. Except as provided in § 1.7520-3(b) of this chapter, for transfers of remainder interests after April 30, 1989, the present value of the remainder interest is determined under § 25.2512-5 of this chapter by use of the interest rate component on the date the interest is transferred unless an election is made under section 7520 and § 1.7520-2 of this chapter to compute the present value of the interest transferred by use of the interest rate component for either of the 2 months preceding the month in which the interest is transferred. In some cases, a reduction in the amount of a charitable contribution of a remainder interest, after the computation of its value under section 170(f)(4) and this section, may be required. See section 170(e) and § 1.170A-4. 


(b) *Valuation of a remainder interest following only one life*—(1) *General rule.* The value of a remainder interest in real property following only one life is determined under the rules provided in § 20.2031-7 (or for certain prior periods, § 20.2031-7A) of this chapter (Estate Tax Regulations), using the interest rate and life contingencies prescribed for the date of the gift. See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances). However, if any part of the real property is subject to exhaustion, wear and tear, or obsolescence, the special factor determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used in valuing the remainder interest in that part. Further, if any part of the property is subject to depletion of its natural resources, such depletion is taken into account in determining the value of the remainder interest. 




(2) *Computation of depreciation factor.* If the valuation of the remainder interest in depreciable property is dependent upon the continuation of one life, a special factor must be used. The factor determined under this paragraph (b)(2) is carried to the fifth decimal place. The special factor is to be computed on the basis of the interest rate and life contingency rates from the mortality table prescribed in § 20.2031-7 of this chapter (or for periods before June 1, 2023, §§ 20.2031-7(d)(3) and 20.2031-7A of this chapter) and on the assumption that the property depreciates on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after June 1, 2023, special factors for determining the present value of a remainder interest following one life may be computed by taxpayers based on Table 2010CM, found in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter, and using the formula provided in this paragraph (b)(2). Alternatively, taxpayers may use the actuarial factors provided in Table C to determine the special factor for the remainder interest following one life. Table C currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables* (or a corresponding URL as may be updated from time to time). IRS Publication 1459, *Actuarial Valuations Version 4C* (2023), references and explains Table C and provides examples describing the computation. This publication will be available within a reasonable time after June 1, 2023. For transfers for which the valuation date is on or after May 1, 2009, and before June 1, 2023, special factors for determining the present value of a remainder interest following one life and an example describing the computation are contained in the previous version of Table C, which currently is available, at no charge, electronically via the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.* IRS Publication 1459, *Actuarial Valuations Version 3C* (2009), references and explains this version of Table C and provides examples describing the computation. See, however, § 1.7520-3(b) (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances). Otherwise, in the case of the valuation of a remainder interest following one life, the special factor may be obtained through use of the formula in Figure 1 to this paragraph (b)(2). The prescribed mortality table is Table 2010CM as set forth in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter, or for periods before June 1, 2023, the appropriate table found in § 20.2031-7A of this chapter. Table 2010CM is referenced by IRS Publication 1459, *Actuarial Values Version 4C.* The mortality tables prescribed for periods before June 1, 2023, are referenced by prior versions of IRS Publication 1459.



(3) *Sample factors from actuarial Table S.* The present value of a remainder interest dependent on the termination of one life is determined by using the formula in § 20.2031-7(d)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter to derive a remainder factor expressed to at least five decimal places. For the convenience of taxpayers, actuarial factors have been computed by the IRS and appear in Table S. The complete Table S can be found on the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables.* For purposes of the example in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the following factors from Table S will be used:


(4) *Example.* After June 1, 2023, A, who is 62, donates to Y University a remainder interest in a personal residence, consisting of a house and land, subject to a reserved life estate in A. At the time of the gift, the land has a value of $30,000 and the house has a value of $100,000 with an estimated useful life of 28 years, at the end of which period the value of the house is expected to be $10,000. The portion of the property considered to be depreciable is $90,000 (the value of the house ($100,000) less its expected value at the end of 28 years ($10,000)). The portion of the property considered to be nondepreciable is $40,000 (the value of the land at the time of the gift ($30,000) plus the expected value of the house at the end of 28 years ($10,000)). A chooses to use the interest rate prescribed under section 7520 for the month in which the gift was made (3.2 percent). Based on an interest rate of 3.2 percent, the remainder factor for $1.00 prescribed in § 20.2031-7(d) and found in Table S for a person age 62 is 0.53238. The value of the nondepreciable remainder interest is $21,295.20 (0.53238 times $40,000). The factor for the remainder interest in depreciable property is computed under the formula described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and is 0.19392. (This factor, 0.19392, may instead be determined by using Table C, which can be found on the IRS website at *https://www.irs.gov/retirement-plans/actuarial-tables,* and following the method provided in IRS Publication 1459, *Actuarial Values Version 4C.*) The value of the depreciable remainder interest is $17,452.80 (0.19392 times $90,000). Therefore, the value of the remainder interest is $38,748.00 ($21,295.20 plus $17,452.80).




(c) *Valuation of a remainder interest following a term for years.* The value of a remainder interest in real property following a term for years shall be determined under the rules provided in § 25.2512-5 (or, for certain prior periods, § 25.2512-5A) of this chapter (Gift Tax Regulations) using Table B provided in § 20.2031-7(d)(6) of this chapter. However, if any part of the real property is subject to exhaustion, wear and tear, or obsolescence, in valuing the remainder interest in that part the value of such part is adjusted by subtracting from the value of such part the amount determined by multiplying such value by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of years in the term or, if less, the estimated useful life of the property, and the denominator of which is the estimated useful life of the property. The resultant figure is the value of the property to be used in § 25.2512-5 (or, for certain prior periods, § 25.2512-5A) of this chapter (Gift Tax Regulations). Further, if any part of the property is subject to depletion of its natural resources, such depletion shall be taken into account in determining the value of the remainder interest. The provisions of this paragraph as it relates to depreciation are illustrated by the following example:


(d) *Definition of estimated useful life.* For the purposes of this section, the determination of the estimated useful life of depreciable property shall take account of the expected use of such property during the period of the life estate or term for years. The term “estimated useful life” means the estimated period (beginning with the date of the contribution) over which such property may reasonably be expected to be useful for such expected use. This period shall be determined by reference to the experience based on any prior use of the property for such purposes if such prior experience is adequate. If such prior experience is inadequate or if the property has not been previously used for such purposes, the estimated useful life shall be determined by reference to the general experience of persons normally holding similar property for such expected use, taking into account present conditions and probable future developments. The estimated useful life of such depreciable property is not limited to the period of the life estate or term for years preceding the remainder interest. In determining the expected use and the estimated useful life of the property, consideration is to be given to the provisions of the governing instrument creating the life estate or term for years or applicable local law, if any, relating to use, preservation, and maintenance of the property during the life estate or term for years. In arriving at the estimated useful life of the property, estimates, if available, of engineers or other persons skilled in estimating the useful life of similar property may be taken into account. At the option of the taxpayer, the estimated useful life of property contributed after December 31, 1970, for purposes of this section, shall be an asset depreciation period selected by the taxpayer that is within the permissible asset depreciation range for the relevant asset guideline class established pursuant to § 1.167(a)-11(b) (4)(ii). For purposes of the preceding sentence, such period, range, and class shall be those which are in effect at the time that the contribution of the remainder interest was made. At the option of the taxpayer, in the case of property contributed before January 1, 1971, the estimated useful life, for purposes of this section, shall be the guideline life provided in Revenue Procedure 62-21 for the relevant asset guideline class. 


(e) *Valuation of a remainder interest following more than one life or a term certain concurrent with one or more lives.* (1)(i) If the valuation of the remainder interest in the real property is dependent upon the continuation or the termination of more than one life or upon a term certain concurrent with one or more lives, a special factor must be used.


(ii) The special factor is to be computed on the basis of—


(A) Interest at the rate prescribed under § 25.2512-5 (or, for certain prior periods, § 25.2512-5A) of this chapter, compounded annually;


(B) Life contingencies determined from the values that are set forth in the mortality table in § 20.2031-7 (or, for certain prior periods, § 20.2031-7A) of this chapter; and


(C) If depreciation is involved, the assumption that the property depreciates on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.


(iii) If any part of the property is subject to depletion of its natural resources, such depletion must be taken into account in determining the value of the remainder interest.




(2) In the case of the valuation of a remainder interest following two lives, the special factor may be obtained through use of the formula in Figure 2 to this paragraph (e)(2). The prescribed mortality table is Table 2010CM as set forth in § 20.2031-7(d)(7)(ii) of this chapter, or for periods before June 1, 2023, the appropriate table found in § 20.2031-7A of this chapter. Table 2010CM is referenced by IRS Publication 1459, *Actuarial Values Version 4C.* The mortality tables prescribed for periods before June 1, 2023, are referenced by prior versions of IRS Publication 1459.



(3) Notwithstanding that the taxpayer may be able to compute the special factor in certain cases under paragraph (2), if a special factor is required in the case of an actual contribution, the Commissioner will furnish the factor to the donor upon request. The request must be accompanied by a statement of the sex and date of birth of each person the duration of whose life may affect the value of the remainder interest, copies of the relevant instruments, and, if depreciation is involved, a statement of the estimated useful life of the depreciable property. However, since remainder interests in that part of any property which is depletable cannot be valued on a purely actuarial basis, special factors will not be furnished with respect to such part. Requests should be forwarded to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Attention: OP:E:EP:A:1, Washington, DC 20224. 


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to contributions made after July 31, 1969, except that paragraphs (b)(2), (3), and (4) and (e)(2) of this section apply to all contributions made on or after June 1, 2023.





---

[N] [T.D. 7370, 40 FR 34337, Aug. 15, 1975, as amended by T.D. 7955, 49 FR 19975, May 11, 1984; T.D. 8540, 59 FR 30102, 30104, June 10, 1994; T.D. 8819, 64 FR 23228, Apr. 30, 1999; T.D. 8886, 65 FR 36909, 36943, June 12, 2000; T.D. 9448, 74 FR 21439, 21518, May 7, 2009; 74 FR 27079, June 8, 2009; T.D. 9540, 76 FR 49571, 49612, Aug. 10, 2011; T.D. 9974, 88 FR 37427, June 7, 2023]




