# § 75.322   Intangible property and copyrights.

(a) Title to intangible property (see § 75.2 *Intangible property*) acquired under a Federal award vests upon acquisition in the non-Federal entity. The non-Federal entity must use that property for the originally-authorized purpose, and must not encumber the property without approval of the HHS awarding agency. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property must occur in accordance with the provisions in § 75.320(e).


(b) The non-Federal entity may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was acquired, under a Federal award. The HHS awarding agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes, and to authorize others to do so.


(c) The non-Federal entity is subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including government-wide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR part 401.


(d) The Federal Government has the right to:


(1) Obtain, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the data produced under a Federal award; and


(2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data for Federal purposes


(e) *Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).* (1) In response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for research data relating to published research findings produced under a Federal award that were used by the Federal Government in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law, the HHS awarding agency must request, and the non-Federal entity must provide, within a reasonable time, the research data so that they can be made available to the public through the procedures established under the FOIA. If the HHS awarding agency obtains the research data solely in response to a FOIA request, the HHS awarding agency may charge the requester a reasonable fee equaling the full incremental cost of obtaining the research data. This fee should reflect costs incurred by the Federal agency and the non-Federal entity. This fee is in addition to any fees the HHS awarding agency may assess under the FOIA (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)).


(2) Published research findings means when:


(i) Research findings are published in a peer-reviewed scientific or technical journal; or


(ii) A Federal agency publicly and officially cites the research findings in support of an agency action that has the force and effect of law. “Used by the Federal Government in developing an agency action that has the force and effect of law” is defined as when an agency publicly and officially cites the research findings in support of an agency action that has the force and effect of law.


(3) Research data means the recorded factual material commonly accepted in the scientific community as necessary to validate research findings, but not any of the following: Preliminary analyses, drafts of scientific papers, plans for future research, peer reviews, or communications with colleagues. This “recorded” material excludes physical objects (*e.g.,* laboratory samples). Research data also do not include:


(i) Trade secrets, commercial information, materials necessary to be held confidential by a researcher until they are published, or similar information which is protected under law; and


(ii) Personnel and medical information and similar information the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, such as information that could be used to identify a particular person in a research study.


(f) The requirements set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section do not apply to commercial organizations



---

[N] [79 FR 75889, Dec. 19, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 3016, Jan. 20, 2016]




