# § 301.6212-2   Definition of last known address.

(a) *General rule.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a taxpayer's last known address is the address that appears on the taxpayer's most recently filed and properly processed Federal tax return, unless the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is given clear and concise notification of a different address. Further information on what constitutes clear and concise notification of a different address and a properly processed Federal tax return can be found in Rev. Proc. 90-18 (1990-1 C.B. 491) or in procedures subsequently prescribed by the Commissioner. 


(b) *Address obtained from third party*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, change of address information that a taxpayer provides to a third party, such as a payor or another government agency, is not clear and concise notification of a different address for purposes of determining a last known address under this section. 


(2) *Exception for address obtained from the United States Postal Service*—(i) *Updating taxpayer addresses.* The IRS will update taxpayer addresses maintained in IRS records by referring to data accumulated and maintained in the United States Postal Service (USPS) National Change of Address database that retains change of address information for thirty-six months (NCOA database). Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, if the taxpayer's name and last known address in IRS records match the taxpayer's name and old mailing address contained in the NCOA database, the new address in the NCOA database is the taxpayer's last known address, unless the IRS is given clear and concise notification of a different address. 


(ii) *Duration of address obtained from NCOA database.* The address obtained from the NCOA database under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section is the taxpayer's last known address until one of the following events occurs— 


(A) The taxpayer files and the IRS properly processes a Federal tax return with an address different from the address obtained from the NCOA database; or 


(B) The taxpayer provides the Internal Revenue Service with clear and concise notification of a change of address, as defined in procedures prescribed by the Commissioner, that is different from the address obtained from the NCOA database. 


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraph (b)(2) of this section:


(c) *Last known address for all notices, statements, and documents.* The rules in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply for purposes of determining whether all notices, statements, or other documents are mailed to a taxpayer's last known address whenever the term *last known address* is used in the Internal Revenue Code or the regulations thereunder. 


(d) *Effective Date*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this section is effective on January 29, 2001. 


(2) *Individual moves in the case of joint filers.* In the case of taxpayers who file joint returns under section 6013, if the NCOA database contains change of address information for only one spouse, paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section will not apply to notices, statements, and other documents mailed before the processing of the taxpayers' 2000 joint return.



---

[N] [T.D. 8939, 66 FR 2820, Jan. 12, 2001]




