# § 80.50   What activities are eligible for funding under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act?

The following activities are eligible for funding under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act:


(a) *Wildlife Restoration program.* (1) Restore and manage wildlife for the benefit of the public.


(2) Conduct research on the problems of managing wildlife and its habitat if necessary to administer wildlife resources efficiently.


(3) Obtain data to guide and direct the regulation of hunting.


(4) Acquire real property suitable or capable of being made suitable for:


(i) Wildlife habitat; or


(ii) Public access for hunting or other wildlife-oriented recreation.


(5) Restore, rehabilitate, improve, or manage areas of lands or waters as wildlife habitat.


(6) Build structures or acquire equipment, goods, and services to:


(i) Restore, rehabilitate, or improve lands and waters as wildlife habitat; or


(ii) Provide public access for hunting or other wildlife-oriented recreation.


(iii) Grantees and subgrantees must follow the requirements at 2 CFR part 200 when acquiring equipment, goods, and services under an award, with emphasis on §§ 200.313, 200.317 through 200.326, and 200.439.


(7) Operate or maintain:


(i) Projects that the State fish and wildlife agency completed under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act; or


(ii) Facilities that the agency acquired or constructed with funds other than those authorized under the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act if these facilities are necessary to carry out activities authorized by the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act.


(8) Coordinate grants in the Wildlife Restoration program and related programs and subprograms.


(9) Provide technical assistance.


(10) Make payments in lieu of taxes on real property under the control of the State fish and wildlife agency when the payment is:


(i) Required by State or local law; and


(ii) Required for all State lands including those acquired with Federal funds and those acquired with non-Federal funds.


(b) *Wildlife Restoration—Basic Hunter Education and Safety subprogram.* (1) Teach the skills, knowledge, and attitudes necessary to be a responsible hunter.


(2) Acquire real property suitable or capable of being made suitable for firearm and archery ranges for public use.


(3) Construct, operate, or maintain firearm and archery ranges for public use.


(c) *Enhanced Hunter Education and Safety program.* (1) Enhance programs for hunter education, hunter development, and firearm and archery safety. Hunter-development programs introduce individuals to and recruit them to take part in hunting, bow hunting, target shooting, or archery.


(2) Enhance interstate coordination of hunter-education and firearm- and archery-range programs.


(3) Enhance programs for education, safety, or development of bow hunters, archers, and shooters.


(4) Enhance construction and development of firearm and archery ranges.


(5) Update safety features of firearm and archery ranges.


(6) Acquire real property suitable or capable of being made suitable for firearm and archery ranges for public use.



---

[N] [76 FR 46156, Aug. 1, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 44786, Aug. 27, 2019]




