# ยง 38.9   Discharge of educators.

(a) *Discharge for cause.* Educators covered under the provision of this section are excluded from coverage under 5 U.S.C. 7511 and 4303. In order to provide due process for educators, the Director shall publish in 62 BIAM representative conditions that could result in the discharge of educators for cause and procedures to be followed in discharge cases. 


(b) *Discharge for inadequate performance.* Action to remove educators for inadequate performance will be taken for failure to meet performance standards established under 5 U.S.C. 4302. Performance standards for all educators will include, among others, lack of student achievement. Willful failure to exercise properly assigned supervisory responsibilities by supervisors shall also be cause for discharge. 


(c) *Other discharge.* The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM a description of the budgetary and programmatic conditions that may result in the discharge of educators for other than cause during the school term. The individual's personnel record will clearly reflect that the action taken is based upon budgetary or programmatic restraints and is not a reflection on the employee's performance. 


(d) *Procedures for discharge for cause.* The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM the procedural steps to be followed by school supervisors, ASE's, and AEPA's in discharge for cause cases. These procedures shall provide (among other things) for the following: 


(1) The educator to be discharged shall receive a written notice of the proposal, specifying the causes or complaints upon which the proposal is based, not less than 30 calendar days before the discharge. However, this shall not prohibit the exclusion of the individual from the education facility in cases where exclusion is required for the safety of the students or the orderly operation of the facility. 


(2) A reasonable time, but not less than 10 calendar days, will be allotted for the individual to make written and/or oral responses to the charge. 


(3) An opportunity will be afforded the individual to review the material relied upon to support the charge. 


(4) Official time, not to exceed eight hours, will be provided to the individual to prepare a response to the charge. 


(5) The educator may elect to have a representative and shall furnish the identity of any representative to the ASE or AEPA. The ASE or AEPA may disallow, as an employee representative, any individual whose activities as a representative would cause a conflict of interest or position, or an employee whose release from his or her official position would give rise to unreasonable costs to the Government, or when priority work assignment precludes his or her release from official duties. The terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement and 5 U.S.C. 7114(a)(5) shall govern representation of employees in an exclusive bargaining unit. 


(6) The individual has a right to a final decision made by the appropriate level of supervision. 


(7) The individual has a right to appeal the final decision and have the merits of the case reviewed by a Departmental official not previously involved in the case. This right includes entitlement to a hearing upon request under procedures in accordance with the requirements of due process under section 1131(e)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 95-561.


(e) *School board action.* (1) The appropriate school board shall be notified as soon as possible, but in no case later than 10 calendar days from the date of issue of the notice of intent to discharge.


(2) The appropriate school board, under any uniform procedure as it may adopt, may issue a formal written certification to the school supervisor, ASE, or AEPA either approving or disapproving the discharge before the expiration of the notice period and before actual discharge. Failure to respond before the expiration of the notice period will have the effect of approving the discharge.


(3) The school supervisor initiating a discharge action may appeal the board's determination to the ASE or AEPA within 10 calendar days of receipt of the board's notice. The ASE or AEPA initiating a discharge may appeal the board's determination to the Director within 10 calendar days of receipt of the board's notice. Within 20 calendar days following the receipt of an appeal, the reviewing official may, for good cause, reverse the school board's determination by a notice in writing to the board. Failure to act within 20 calendar days shall have the effect of approving the board's determination.


(f) *School board recommendations for discharge.* School boards may recommend in writing to school supervisors, ASE's, or AEPA's, and the Director that individuals in the education program be discharged. These written recommendations may follow any procedures formally established internally by the school board or tribal government. However, the written recommendations must contain specific causes or complaints that may be verified or established by investigation of factual situations. The official receiving a board recommendation for discharge of an individual shall acknowledge the recommendation in writing within 10 calendar days of receipt and proceed with a fact finding investigation. The official who finally disposes of the recommendation shall notify the school board of the disposition in writing within 60 calendar days of initiation of the fact finding investigation.




