# ยง 886.5700   Eyelid weight.

(a) *Identification.* An eyelid weight is a prescription device made of gold, tantalum, platinum, iridium, or surgical grade stainless steel that is rectangular in shape and contoured to the shape of the eye. The device is intended for the gravity assisted treatment of lagophthalmos (incomplete eyelid closure).


(1) The external eyelid weight is adhered to the outer skin of the upper eyelid.


(2) The implantable eyelid weight is implanted into the upper eyelid.


(b) *Classification.* (1) Class II (special controls) for the external eyelid weight. The external eyelid weight is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 886.9. The special controls for the external eyelid weight are:


(i) Testing demonstrating the biocompatibility of the device; and


(ii) Labeling must include the following information:


(A) Specific instructions regarding the proper placement, sizing, and removal of the device; and


(B) A warning stating that the patient should be instructed to remove the device prior to entering a magnetic resonance environment.


(2) Class II (special controls) for the implantable eyelid weight. The special controls for the implantable eyelid weight are:


(i) Testing demonstrating the biocompatibility of the device;


(ii) Testing demonstrating the sterility and shelf life of the device;


(iii) Nonclinical testing evaluating the compatibility of the device in a magnetic resonance environment.


(iv) Patient labeling to convey information regarding the safety and compatibility of the device in a magnetic resonance environment, the conditions under which a patient with the device can be safely scanned, and a mechanism for a healthcare provider to obtain detailed information about magnetic resonance safety and compatibility if needed.



---

[N] [79 FR 22015, Apr. 21, 2014]




