# § 257.81   Run-on and run-off controls for CCR landfills.

(a) The owner or operator of an existing or new CCR landfill or any lateral expansion of a CCR landfill must design, construct, operate, and maintain:


(1) A run-on control system to prevent flow onto the active portion of the CCR unit during the peak discharge from a 24-hour, 25-year storm; and


(2) A run-off control system from the active portion of the CCR unit to collect and control at least the water volume resulting from a 24-hour, 25-year storm.


(b) Run-off from the active portion of the CCR unit must be handled in accordance with the surface water requirements under § 257.3-3.


(c) *Run-on and run-off control system plan*—(1) *Content of the plan.* The owner or operator must prepare initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans for the CCR unit according to the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section. These plans must document how the run-on and run-off control systems have been designed and constructed to meet the applicable requirements of this section. Each plan must be supported by appropriate engineering calculations. The owner or operator has completed the initial run-on and run-off control system plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(3).


(2) *Amendment of the plan.* The owner or operator may amend the written run-on and run-off control system plan at any time provided the revised plan is placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(3). The owner or operator must amend the written run-on and run-off control system plan whenever there is a change in conditions that would substantially affect the written plan in effect.


(3) *Timeframes for preparing the initial plan*—(i) *Existing CCR landfills.* The owner or operator of the CCR unit must prepare the initial run-on and run-off control system plan no later than October 17, 2016.


(ii) *New CCR landfills and any lateral expansion of a CCR landfill.* The owner or operator must prepare the initial run-on and run-off control system plan no later than the date of initial receipt of CCR in the CCR unit.


(4) *Frequency for revising the plan.* The owner or operator of the CCR unit must prepare periodic run-on and run-off control system plans required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section every five years. The date of completing the initial plan is the basis for establishing the deadline to complete the first subsequent plan. The owner or operator may complete any required plan prior to the required deadline provided the owner or operator places the completed plan into the facility's operating record within a reasonable amount of time. In all cases, the deadline for completing a subsequent plan is based on the date of completing the previous plan. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4), the owner or operator has completed a periodic run-on and run-off control system plan when the plan has been placed in the facility's operating record as required by § 257.105(g)(3).


(5) The owner or operator must obtain a certification from a qualified professional engineer or approval from the Participating State Director or approval from EPA where EPA is the permitting authority stating that the initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans meet the requirements of this section.


(d) The owner or operator of the CCR unit must comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 257.105(g), the notification requirements specified in § 257.106(g), and the internet requirements specified in § 257.107(g).



---

[N] [80 FR 21468, Apr. 17, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 36452, July 30, 2018]




