# ยง 416.305   Participation and withdrawal requirements under the ASCQR Program.

(a) *Participation in the ASCQR Program.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an ambulatory surgical center (ASC) is considered as participating in the ASCQR Program once the ASC submits any quality measure data to the ASCQR Program and has been designated as open in the Certification and Survey Provider Enhanced Reporting system for at least four months prior to the beginning of data collection for a payment determination.


(b) *Withdrawal from the ASCQR Program*. (1) An ASC may withdraw from the ASCQR Program by submitting to CMS a withdrawal of participation form that can be found in the secure portion of the CMS-designated information system.


(2) An ASC may withdraw from the ASCQR Program any time up to and including August 31 of the year preceding a payment determination.


(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, an ASC will incur a 2.0 percentage point reduction in its ASC annual payment update for that payment determination year and any subsequent payment determinations in which it is withdrawn.


(4) An ASC will be considered as rejoining the ASCQR Program if it begins to submit any quality measure data again to the ASCQR Program.


(c) *Minimum case volume for program participation*. ASCs with fewer than 240 Medicare claims (Medicare primary and secondary payer) per year during an annual reporting period for a payment determination year are not required to participate in the ASCQR Program for the subsequent annual reporting period for that subsequent payment determination year.


(d) *Indian Health Service hospital outpatient department participation*. Beginning with the CY 2017 payment determination, Indian Health Service hospital outpatient departments that bill Medicare under the Ambulatory Surgical Center payment system are not considered ASCs for the purposes of the ASCQR Program. These facilities are not required to meet ASCQR Program requirements and will not receive payment reductions under the ASCQR Program.



---

[N] [80 FR 70604, Nov. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 82179, Nov. 22, 2023]




