# ยง 28.380   General structural fire protection.

(a) *Fire hazards to be minimized.* Each vessel must be constructed so as to minimize fire hazards insofar as is reasonable and practicable.


(b) *Combustibles insulated from heated surfaces.* An internal combustion engine exhaust, galley uptake, electrical heating tape, or similar source of ignition must be kept clear of and suitably insulated from combustible material. A dry exhaust system for an internal combustion engine on a wooden or fiber reinforced plastic vessel must be installed in accordance with ABYC P-1.


(c) *Separation of machinery and fuel tank spaces from accommodation spaces.* (1) Each accommodation space must be separated from machinery and fuel tank spaces by a fire resistant boundary which will prevent the passage of vapors.


(2) Each pipe and cable penetration between an accommodation space and a machinery or a fuel tank storage space must be sealed.


(d) *Paint and flammable liquid lockers.* Each vessel carrying paint and flammable liquids must be equipped with a steel or a steel lined storage locker.


(e) *Insulation.* Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, insulation must be noncombustible.


(1) In machinery spaces, combustible insulation may be used for pipe and machinery lagging.


(2) In cargo spaces and refrigerated compartments of service spaces, combustible insulation may be used.


(f) *Vapor barrier.* Where insulation of any type is used in spaces where flammable and combustible liquids or vapors are present, e.g., machinery spaces and paint lockers, a vapor barrier which covers the insulation must be provided.


(g) *Paint.* Nitrocellulose or other highly flammable or noxious fume producing paints or lacquers must not be used on the vessel.


(h) *Mattresses.* Polyurethane foam mattresses are prohibited.


(i) *Fiber reinforced plastic.* When the hull, a deck, deckhouse, or superstructure of a vessel is partially or completely constructed of fiber reinforced plastic, the resin used must be fire retardant.


(j) *Cooking areas.* Vertical or horizontal surfaces within 0.9144 meters (3 feet) of cooking appliances must be composed of noncombustible material or covered by noncombustible material. Curtains, draperies, or free hanging fabrics are not permitted within 0.9144 meters (3 feet) of cooking appliances.



---

[N] [CGD 88-079, 56 FR 40393, Aug. 14, 1991; 56 FR 49822, Oct. 1, 1991, as amended by CGD 96-046, 61 FR 57275, Nov. 5, 1996; CGD 95-028, 62 FR 51197, Sept. 30, 1997]




