# § 46.2   Meaning of terms.

When used in this subpart, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.46, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 46, Miscellaneous Regulations Relating to Tobacco Products and Cigarette Papers and Tubes.


*Article.* The commodity in respect to which the amount claimed was paid or collected as a tax.


*Claimant.* Any person who files a claim for a refund or credit of tax under this subpart.


*Owner.* A person who, by reason of a proprietary interest in the article, furnished the amount claimed to the claimant for the purpose of paying the tax.


*Person.* An individual, a trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation.


*Tax.* Any tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. chapter 52, or by any corresponding provision of prior internal revenue laws, and in the case of any commodity of a kind subject to a tax under such chapter, any tax equal to any such tax, any additional tax, or any floor stocks tax. The term includes an exaction denominated a “tax”, and any penalty, addition to tax, additional amount, or interest applicable to any such tax.



---

[N] [T.D. 6395, 24 FR 599, Jan. 28, 1959. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975]


