# § 304.23   Responses to requests for access to records.

(a) *Acknowledgments of requests.* On receipt of a request, the agency ordinarily will send an acknowledgment letter to the requester that will confirm the requester's agreement to pay fees under § 304.21(c) and provide an assigned request number for further reference. In some cases, the agency may seek further information or clarification from the requester.


(b) *Grants of requests for access.* Once the agency makes a determination to grant a request for access in whole or in part, it will notify the requester in writing. The agency will inform the requester in the notice of any fee charged under § 304.27 and will disclose records to the requester promptly on payment of any applicable fee. If a request is made in person, the agency may disclose records to the requester directly, in a manner not unreasonably disruptive of its operations, on payment of any applicable fee and with a written record made of the grant of the request. If a requester is accompanied by another person, the requester will be required to authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the other person.


(c) *Adverse determinations of requests for access.* Upon making an adverse determination denying a request for access in any respect, the agency will notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests consist of: a determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part; a determination that a requested record does not exist or cannot be located; a determination that what has been requested is not a record subject to the Privacy Act; a determination on any disputed fee matter; and a denial of a request for expedited treatment. The notification letter will include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the denial, including any Privacy Act exemption(s) applied in denying the request; and


(3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under § 304.24(a) and a description of the requirements of § 304.24(a).




