# § 190.175   Drawback claimant; maintenance of records.

(a) *Drawback claimant.* A drawback claimant under 19 U.S.C. 1313(p) must be the exporter of the exported article, or the refiner, producer, or importer of either the qualified article or the exported article. Any of these persons may designate another person to file the drawback claim.


(b) *Transfer of merchandise*—(1) *General.* A drawback claimant under 19 U.S.C. 1313(p) must maintain records (which may be records kept in the normal cause of business) to support the receipt of transferred merchandise and the party transferring the merchandise must maintain records to demonstrate the transfer.


(2) *Article substituted for the qualified article.* (i) Subject to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the manufacturer, producer, or importer of a qualified article may transfer to the exporter an article of the same kind and quality as the qualified article in a quantity not greater than the quantity of the qualified article.


(ii) Subject to paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, any intermediate party in the chain of commerce leading to the exporter from the manufacturer, producer, or importer of a qualified article may also transfer to the exporter or to another intermediate party an article of the same kind and quality as the article purchased or exchanged from the prior transferor (whether the manufacturer, producer, importer, or another intermediate transferor) in a quantity not greater than the quantity of the article purchased or exchanged.


(iii) Under either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the article transferred, regardless of its origin (imported, manufactured, substituted, or any combination thereof), will be the qualified article eligible for drawback for purposes of section 1313(p).


(c) *Maintenance of records.* The manufacturer, producer, importer, transferor, exporter and drawback claimant of the qualified article and the exported article must all maintain their appropriate records required by this part.




