# § 271.10   Requirements for generators of hazardous wastes.

(a) The State program must cover all generators covered by 40 CFR part 262. States must require new generators to contact the State and obtain an EPA identification number before they perform any activity subject to regulation under the approved State hazardous waste program.


(b) The State shall have authority to require and shall require all generators to comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements equivalent to those under 40 CFR 262.40 and 262.41. States must require that generators keep these records at least 3 years. States that choose to receive electronic documents must include the requirements of 40 CFR Part 3—(Electronic reporting) in their Program (except that states that choose to receive electronic manifests and/or permit the use of electronic manifests must comply with any applicable requirements for e-manifest in this section of this section). 




(c) The State program must require that generators who accumulate hazardous wastes for short periods of time comply with requirements that are equivalent to the requirements for accumulating hazardous wastes for short periods of time under 40 CFR 262.15, 262.16, or 262.17.




(d) The State program must require that generators comply with requirements that are equivalent to the requirements for the packaging, labeling, marking, and placarding of hazardous waste under 40 CFR 262.30 to 262.33, and are consistent with relevant DOT regulations under 49 CFR parts 172, 173, 178 and 179.


(e) The State program shall provide requirements respecting international shipments which are equivalent to those at 40 CFR part 262 subpart H, other hazardous waste import and export regulations in 40 CFR parts 260, 262, 263, 264, 265, 266, 267 and 273, and exclusion conditions for export or import in 40 CFR part 261 to the extent that State has adopted such exclusion conditions, except that States shall not replace EPA or international references with State references.


(f) The State must require that all generators of hazardous waste who transport (or offer for transport) such hazardous waste off-site:


(1) Use a manifest system that ensures that interstate and intrastate shipments of hazardous waste are designated for delivery and, in the case of intrastate shipments, are delivered to facilities that are authorized to operate under an approved state program or the federal program. The manifest system must require the use of the paper or electronic manifest formats as required by § 262.20(a) of this chapter. No other manifest form, electronic manifest format, shipping paper, or information other than that required by federal requirements, may be required by the state to travel with the shipment, or to be transmitted electronically, as a means to track the transportation and delivery of hazardous waste shipments. No other electronic signature other than that required by the federal electronic manifest requirements may be required by a state to be executed in connection with the signing of an electronic manifest.

(2) Initiate the manifest and designate on the manifest the treatment, storage or disposal facility to which the waste is to be shipped.


(3) Ensure that all wastes offered for transportation are accompanied by a manifest form, or are tracked with an electronic manifest, except:


(i) Shipments subject to 40 CFR 262.20(e) or (f);


(ii) Shipments by rail or water, as specified in 40 CFR 262.23(c) and (d).


(4) Investigate instances where manifests have not been returned by the owner or operator of the designated facility and report such instances to the State in which the shipment originated.


(i) Beginning on December 1, 2025, investigate instances where manifests have not been returned by the owner or operator of the designated facility and report such instances by electronic submission in the EPA's e-Manifest system to the State in which the shipment originated.


(ii) [Reserved]


(g) In the case of interstate shipments for which the manifest has not been returned, the State program must provide for notification to the State in which the facility designated on the manifest is located and to the State in which the shipment may have been delivered (or to EPA in the case of unauthorized States). 


(h) The state must follow the federal manifest format for the paper manifest forms (EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A) and their instructions and must follow the federal electronic manifest format and instructions as obtained from the Electronic Manifest System described in § 260.10 of this chapter.


(1) A state may require the entry of waste codes associated with particular wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes by the state, if the state codes are not redundant with a federally required code for the same waste. No state, however, may impose enforcement sanctions on a transporter during transportation of the shipment for failure of the form to include a state-required waste code.


(2) The State in which the generator is located (generator State) may require that the initial generator copy of the paper manifest form be submitted to the State.


(3) No State, however, may impose enforcement sanctions on a transporter during transportation of the shipment for failure of the form to include preprinted information or optional State information items.


(i) Unless otherwise provided in part 271, the State program shall have standards for generators which are at least as stringent as any amendment to 40 CFR Part 262 which is promulgated after July 1, 1984. 


(j) The State shall have standards for hazardous waste exporters which are equivalent to 40 CFR part 262. These standards shall include:


(1) Compliance with the manifest system including the requirements that:


(i) Beginning on December 1, 2025, the exporter submits a signed copy of the manifest and continuation sheet to the EPA e-Manifest system.


(ii) The exporter lists the relevant consent number from consent documentation supplied by the EPA facility for each waste listed on the manifest in the International Shipments block on the Continuation Sheet (EPA Form 8700-22A), matched to the relevant list number for the waste from block 9b; and


(2) Beginning on December 1, 2025, the exporter pays user fees to the EPA to recover the EPA's costs related to the development and operation of an electronic hazardous waste manifest system, in the amounts specified by the user fee methodology included in 40 CFR part 265, subpart FF for all paper and electronic manifests submitted to the EPA e-Manifest system.



---

[N] [48 FR 14248, Apr. 1, 1983, as amended at 48 FR 30114, June 30, 1983; 49 FR 10506, Mar. 20, 1984; 49 FR 11180, Mar. 26, 1984; 51 FR 28685, Aug. 8, 1986; 51 FR 33722, Sept. 22, 1986; 56 FR 43705, Sept. 4, 1991; 70 FR 10825, Mar. 4, 2005; 70 FR 59888, Oct. 13, 2005; 79 FR 7562, Feb. 7, 2014; 81 FR 85729, Nov. 28, 2016; 81 FR 85828, Nov. 28, 2016; 83 FR 462, Jan. 3, 2018; 88 FR 54115, Aug. 9, 2023; 89 FR 60736, July 26, 2024]




