# § 1033.701   General provisions.

(a) You may average, bank, and trade (ABT) emission credits for purposes of certification as described in this subpart to show compliance with the standards of this part. Participation in this program is voluntary.


(b) Section 1033.740 restricts the use of emission credits to certain averaging sets.


(c) The definitions of Subpart J of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply:


(1) *Actual emission credits* means emission credits you have generated that we have verified by reviewing your final report.


(2) *Applicable emission standard* means an emission standard that is specified in subpart B of this part. Note that for other subparts, “applicable emission standard” is defined to also include FELs.


(3) *Averaging set* means a set of locomotives in which emission credits may be exchanged only with other locomotives in the same averaging set.


(4) *Broker* means any entity that facilitates a trade of emission credits between a buyer and seller.


(5) *Buyer* means the entity that receives emission credits as a result of a trade.


(6) *Reserved emission credits* means emission credits you have generated that we have not yet verified by reviewing your final report.


(7) *Seller* means the entity that provides emission credits during a trade.


(8) *Trade* means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.


(9) *Transfer* means to convey control of credits generated for an individual locomotive to the purchaser, owner, or operator of the locomotive at the time of manufacture or remanufacture; or to convey control of previously generated credits from the purchaser, owner, or operator of an individual locomotive to the manufacturer/remanufacturer at the time of manufacture/remanufacture.


(d) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard. This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing. However, if emissions from a locomotive exceed an FEL or standard (for example, during a selective enforcement audit), you may use emission credits to recertify the engine family with a higher FEL that applies only to future production.


(e) Engine families that use emission credits for one or more pollutants may not generate positive emission credits for another pollutant.


(f) Emission credits may be used in the model year they are generated or in future model years. Emission credits may not be used for past model years.


(g) You may increase or decrease an FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under § 1033.225. The new FEL may apply only to locomotives you have not already introduced into commerce. Each locomotive's emission control information label must include the applicable FELs. You must conduct production line testing to verify that the emission levels are achieved.


(h) Credits may be generated by any certifying manufacturer/remanufacturer and may be held by any of the following entities:


(1) Locomotive or engine manufacturers.


(2) Locomotive or engine remanufacturers.


(3) Locomotive owners.


(4) Locomotive operators.


(5) Other entities after notification to EPA.


(i) All locomotives that are certified to an FEL that is different from the emission standard that would otherwise apply to the locomotives are required to comply with that FEL for the remainder of their service lives, except as allowed by § 1033.750.


(1) Manufacturers must notify the purchaser of any locomotive that is certified to an FEL that is different from the emission standard that would otherwise apply that the locomotive is required to comply with that FEL for the remainder of its service life.


(2) Remanufacturers must notify the owner of any locomotive or locomotive engine that is certified to an FEL that is different from the emission standard that would otherwise apply that the locomotive (or the locomotive in which the engine is used) is required to comply with that FEL for the remainder of its service life.


(j) The FEL to which the locomotive is certified must be included on the locomotive label required in § 1033.135. This label must include the notification specified in paragraph (i) of this section.


(k) You may use either of the following approaches to retire or forego emission credits:


(1) You may retire emission credits generated from any number of your locomotives. This may be considered donating emission credits to the environment. Identify any such credits in the reports described in § 1033.730. Locomotives must comply with the applicable FELs even if you donate or sell the corresponding emission credits under this paragraph (k). Those credits may no longer be used by anyone to demonstrate compliance with any EPA emission standards.


(2) You may certify a family using an FEL below the emission standard as described in this part and choose not to generate emission credits for that family. If you do this, you do not need to calculate emission credits for those families and you do not need to submit or keep the associated records described in this subpart for that family.



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 74009, Oct. 25, 2016; 86 FR 34376, June 29, 2021]




