# § 5001.452   Loan closing and conditions precedent to issuance of loan note guarantee.

(a) The lender must not close the guaranteed loan until all conditions of the conditional commitment are met. If, at a later date, it is discovered that all conditions were not met, the lender will be advised in writing that full enforceability of the guarantee by the lender may be compromised if the deficiencies are not corrected.




(b) Simultaneously with or immediately after the guaranteed loan closing, the lender must provide to the Agency the guarantee fee, and the following forms and documents:




(1) An Agency-approved, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report”;


(2) A copy of each executed promissory note and collateral security documents;


(3) A copy of the executed final loan agreement, which must include any additional requirements imposed by the Agency in the conditional commitment;


(4) The original, executed Agency-approved guarantee form(s) for any required personal, partnership or corporate guarantees;


(5) The borrower's loan closing balance sheet, if required;


(6) For loans to public bodies, an opinion from recognized bond counsel regarding the adequacy of the preparation, issuance, and enforceability of the debt instruments;


(7) Any other documents required to comply with applicable law or required by this part, the conditional commitment or the Agency; and


(8) When requesting issuance of a loan note guarantee, the lender must certify to each condition identified in paragraphs (b)(8)(iii)(A) through (V) of this section, as applicable.


(i) In making its certification, the lender can rely on certain written materials (*e.g.,* certifications, evaluations, appraisals, financial statements, and other reports) provided by the borrower or other qualified third parties (*e.g.,* independent engineers, appraisers, accountants, attorneys, consultants, or other experts).


(ii) If the lender is unable to provide any of the certifications required under this section, the lender must provide an explanation satisfactory to the Agency.


(iii) The lender may request the loan note guarantee prior to construction in accordance with this part; however, the lender must still certify to all applicable conditions of this paragraph (b)(8)(iii).


(A) All requirements of the conditional commitment have been met.


(B) The financial criteria specified in § 5001.303(b)(4) of this part and any financial criteria contained in the conditional commitment were:


(*1*) Determined in accordance with any applicable requirements in § 5001.9 of this part, and


(*2*) Have been maintained through the issuance of the loan note guarantee. Failure to maintain or attain the minimum financial criteria will result in the Agency not issuing a loan note guarantee.


(C) No major changes have been made in the applicant, project or lender's loan conditions and requirements since the issuance of the conditional commitment, unless such changes have been approved by the Agency.


(D) There has been neither any material adverse change in the borrower's financial condition nor any other material adverse change in the borrower during the period of time from the Agency's issuance of the conditional commitment to issuance of the loan note guarantee regardless of the cause or causes of the change and whether or not the change or causes of the change were within the lender's or borrower's control.


(*1*) The borrower is a legal entity in good standing with its regulator (as applicable) and operating in accordance with the laws of the State(s) or Tribe where the borrower was organized or has a place of business.


(*2*) The borrower meets the eligibility requirements as outlined in § 5001.126(a) and (b) through (e), as applicable.


(E) There is a reasonable prospect that the guaranteed loan and other project debt will be repaid on time and in full (including interest) from project cash flow according to the terms proposed in the application.


(F) The guaranteed loan has been properly closed, and the required security instruments have been properly executed and all security interests obtained by the lender have been or will be properly perfected in accordance with applicable law.


(G) All planned property acquisition has been or will be completed; all development has been or will be substantially completed in accordance with plans and specifications and conforms to applicable Federal, State, and local codes; all equipment required for the project is available, can be procured and delivered within the project development schedule, and will be installed in conformance with manufacturer's specifications and design requirements; and costs have not exceeded the amount approved by the lender and the Agency.


(H) The proposed project complies with all current Federal, State, and local laws and regulatory rules that affect the project, the borrower, and lender activities, including, but not limited to, equal opportunity and Fair Housing Act requirements and design and construction requirements.


(I) Lender-required insurances are in effect.


(J) All truth-in-lending and equal credit opportunity requirements have been met.


(K) The borrower has marketable title to the collateral then owned by the borrower, subject to the rights of the guaranteed loan and to any other exceptions approved in writing by the Agency.


(L) Where required, necessary or prudent, the borrower has obtained—


(*1*) A legal opinion relative to the title and accessibility to any rights-of-way and easements; and


(*2*) A title opinion or title insurance showing the borrower has good and marketable title to the real property and other collateral and fully addressing all existing mortgages or other lien defects, restrictions or encumbrances. In those cases where there is adequate gap coverage, a title commitment may be acceptable.




(M) All project funds have been or will be disbursed for purposes and in amounts consistent with the conditional commitment (or Agency-approved amendment thereof) and the application submitted to the Agency. Appropriate lender controls were used to ensure that all funds were properly disbursed, including funds for working capital. A copy of a settlement statement by the lender detailing the use of loan and matching/equity funds must be attached to support this certification.


(N) When applicable, the entire amount of the loan for working capital or initial operating expenses have been disbursed to the borrower, except in cases where the Agency has approved disbursement over an extended period of time and funds are escrowed so that the settlement statement reflects the full amount to be disbursed.


(O) When required, personal and/or corporate guarantees have been obtained in accordance with § 5001.204 of this part.


(P) Lien priorities are consistent with the requirements of the conditional commitment. No claims or liens of laborers, subcontractors, suppliers of machinery and equipment, materialmen, or other parties have been filed against the collateral and no suits are pending or threatened that would adversely affect the collateral.


(Q) Neither the lender nor any of the lender's officers has an ownership interest in the borrower or is an officer or director of the borrower, and neither the borrower nor its officers, directors, stockholders, or other owners have more than a 5 percent ownership interest in the lender.


(R) The loan agreement includes all borrower compliance measures identified in the Agency's environmental review for avoiding or reducing adverse environmental impacts of the project's construction or operation.


(S) The lender will comply with the requirements of the Debt Collection Improvement Act.


(T) The lender has executed and delivered the lender's agreement, completed registration in the Agency's electronic reporting system, and electronically submitted the closing report for the guaranteed loan along with the appropriate guarantee fee.


(U) For all RES and EEI projects, the lender must provide certification that the project has been performing or will perform at a steady state operating level in accordance with the technical requirements, plans, and specifications. Any modification to the 30-day steady state operating level requirement will be based on the Agency's review of the technical report or vendor certification and will be incorporated into the conditional commitment.








(V) For CF and WWD projects, the lender must also certify that the lender would not make the loan without an Agency loan guarantee.


(W) For WWD projects, if applicable, the lender must certify that the project complied with American Iron and Steel requirements.


(X) For B&I, the capital/equity requirement set forth in the Conditional Commitment was met, as evidenced by a balance sheet as of the date the guaranteed loan was closed, giving effect to the entirety of the loan in the calculation whether or not the loan itself is fully advanced. A copy of the borrower's loan closing balance sheet must be included with the lender's certification.


(c) For RES projects where applicable, the lender must provide to the Agency a copy of the executed power purchase agreement and/or a permission to operate letter from the energy off-taker.




(d)(1) For all CF projects before the Agency will issue a loan note guarantee on a guaranteed loan to a borrower other than a public body, the articles of incorporation or other organizing documents of the borrower or the loan agreement must include a condition similar to the following:


(2) If the corporation dissolves or ceases to perform the community facility objectives and functions, the board of directors shall distribute all business property and assets to one or more nonprofit corporations or public bodies. This distribution must be approved by 75 percent of the users or members and must serve the public welfare of the community. The assets may not be distributed to any members, directors, stockholders, or others having a financial or managerial interest in the corporation. Nothing herein shall prohibit the corporation from paying its debts.


(e) For all B&I projects a borrower whose project involves locally or regionally produced agricultural food products and is not located in a rural area must include in an appropriate agreement with retail and institutional facilities to which the borrower sells locally or regionally produced agricultural food products a requirement to inform consumers of the retail or institutional facilities that the consumers are purchasing or consuming locally or regionally produced agricultural food products.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 70358, Dec. 10, 2021; 89 FR 79726, Sept. 30, 2024]




