# § 215.0   Definitions.

The following expressions, wherever used in the regulations in this part or leases thereunder, shall have the meaning designated in this section: 


(a) *Superintendent.* The term “superintendent” shall mean any person in charge of the Quapaw Indian Agency, or having supervision under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior of the Indian restricted and trust allotted lands thereunder. 


(b) *Allottee.* The term “allottee” shall mean any Indian to whom land has been allotted, or any Indian owner of land or interest therein as an heir or devisee. 


(c) *Incompetent Indian.* The term “incompetent Indian” or “incompetent” shall mean any Indian who has been declared by the Secretary of the Interior to be incompetent to improve or manage his restricted or trust lands properly or with benefit to himself. The term shall also include any Indian who is a minor and any Indian who is a legal incompetent under the laws of the State. The term shall also apply to any Indian who is in fact incompetent, and the question of whether an Indian is competent or incompetent at the time of making a lease of his restricted or trust Indian lands is one for the Secretary of the Interior to determine. 


(d) *Lessee.* The term “lessee,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part, shall mean any person, firm, or corporation, their legal representatives, heirs, or assigns, to whom a lead and zinc mining lease has been made by or on behalf of Indians under the provisions of the regulations in this part. 


(e) *Lessor.* The term “lessor,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part, shall mean any Indian owning or having any interest in restricted or trust allotted any inherited lands under the supervision of the Quapaw Indian Agency, by or for whom a lease has been executed pursuant to the regulations in this part. 


(f) *Leased lands.* The terms “leased lands,” “leased premises,” or “leased tract” shall mean any leased restricted or trust lands within and under jurisdiction of the Quapaw Indian Agency allotted to or inherited by an Indian. 


(g) *Mining operations.* The term “mining operation” or “operations,” except where otherwise modified or limited in the regulations in this part or in leases thereunder shall mean actual drilling, mining, or construction on the leased lands. 




