# § 190.112   Procedure.

(a) *General.* The provisions of this subpart will override conflicting provisions of this part, such as the export procedures in § 190.72.


(b) *Notice of lading.* The drawback claimant must file with the drawback office a notice of lading.


(c) *Notice of lading.* In the case of drawback in connection with 19 U.S.C. 1309(b), the notice of lading must be filed within 5 years after the date of importation of the imported merchandise.


(d) *Contents of notice.* The notice of lading must show:


(1) The name of the vessel or identity of the aircraft on which articles were or are to be laden;


(2) The number and kind of packages and their marks and numbers;


(3) A description of the articles and their weight (net), gauge, measure, or number; and


(4) The name of the exporter.


(e) *Declaration of Master or other officer*—(1) *Requirement.* The master or an authorized representative of the vessel or aircraft having knowledge of the facts must provide the following declaration on the notice of lading “I declare that the information given above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief; that I have knowledge of the facts set forth herein; that the articles described in this notice of lading were received in the quantities stated, from the person, and on the date, indicated above; that said articles were laden on the vessel (or aircraft) named above for use on said vessel (or aircraft) as supplies (or equipment), except as noted below; and that at the time of lading of the articles, the said vessel (or aircraft) was engaged in the business or trade checked below: (It is not necessary for a foreign vessel to show its class of trade.).”


(2) *Filing.* The drawback claimant must file with the drawback office both the drawback entry and the notice of lading or separate document containing the declaration of the master or other officer or representative.


(f) *Information concerning class or trade.* Information about the class of business or trade of a vessel or aircraft is required to be furnished in support of the drawback entry if the vessel or aircraft is American.


(g) *Articles laden or installed on aircraft as equipment or used in the maintenance or repair of aircraft.* The drawback office where the drawback claim is filed will require a declaration or other evidence showing to its satisfaction that articles have been laden or installed on aircraft as equipment or used in the maintenance or repair of aircraft.


(h) *Fuel laden on vessels or aircraft as supplies*—(1) *Composite notice of lading.* In the case of fuel laden on vessels or aircraft as supplies, the drawback claimant may file with the drawback office a composite notice of lading for each calendar month. The composite notice of lading must describe all of the drawback claimant's deliveries of fuel supplies during the one calendar month at a single port or airport to all vessels or airplanes of one vessel owner or operator or airline. This includes fuel laden for flights or voyages between the contiguous United States and Hawaii, Alaska, or any U.S. possessions (*see* § 10.59 of this chapter).


(2) *Contents of composite notice.* Composite notice must show for each voyage or flight:


(i) The identity of the vessel or aircraft;


(ii) A description of the fuel supplies laden;


(iii) The quantity laden; and


(iv) The date of lading.


(3) *Declaration of owner or operator.* An authorized vessel or airline representative having knowledge of the facts must complete the “Declaration of Master or other officer” (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(i) *Desire to land articles covered by notice of lading.* The master of the vessel or commander of the aircraft desiring to land in the United States articles covered by a notice of lading must apply for a permit to land those articles under CBP supervision. All articles landed, except those transferred under the original notice of lading to another vessel or aircraft entitled to drawback, will be considered imported merchandise for the purpose of § 309(c) of the Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1309(c)).




