# ยง 206.371   Loan program.

(a) *General.* The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may make a Special Community Disaster Loan to any local government which has suffered a substantial loss of tax and other revenues as a result of a major disaster and which demonstrates a need for Federal financial assistance in order to provide essential services.


(b) *Amount of loan.* The amount of the loan is based upon need, not to exceed 25 percent of the operating budget of the local government for the fiscal year in which the disaster occurs. The term fiscal year as used in this subpart means the local government's fiscal year.


(c) *Interest rate.* The interest rate is the rate for five year maturities as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in effect on the date that the Promissory Note is executed. This rate is from the monthly Treasury schedule of certified interest rates which takes into consideration the current average yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States. If an applicant can demonstrate *unusual circumstances involving financial hardship*, the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may approve a rate equal to the five year maturity rate plus 1 per centum, adjusted to the nearest 
1/8 percent, and further reduced by one-half.


(d) *Time limitation.* The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may approve a loan in either the fiscal year in which the disaster occurred or the fiscal year immediately following that year.


(e) *Term of loan.* The term of the loan is 5 years, unless otherwise extended by the Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate. The Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate may consider a request for an extension of a loan based on the local government's financial condition. The total term of any loan under section 417(a) of the Stafford Act normally may not exceed 10 years from the date the Promissory Note was executed. However, when extenuating circumstances exist and the recipient demonstrates an inability to repay the loan within the initial 10 years, but agrees to repay such loan over an extended period of time, additional time may be provided for loan repayment (see ยง 206.377(c)).


(f) *Use of loan funds.* The local government shall use the loaned funds to assist in providing essential services. The funds shall not be used to finance capital improvements nor the repair or restoration of damaged public facilities. Neither the loan nor any cancelled portion of the loans may be used as the non-Federal share of any Federal program, including those under the Stafford Act.


(g) *Relation to other assistance.* Any Special Community Disaster Loans including cancellations of loans made under this subpart shall not reduce or otherwise affect any commitments, grants, or other assistance provided under the authority of the Stafford Act or this part.


(h) *Cancellation.* The Director of the Public Assistance Division shall cancel repayment of all or part of a Special Community Disaster Loan to the extent that he/she determines that revenues of the local government during the three full fiscal years following the disaster are insufficient to meet the operating budget of that local government because of disaster-related revenue losses and additional unreimbursed disaster-related municipal operating expenses.



---

[N] [70 FR 60446, Oct. 18, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 2817, Jan. 19, 2010]




