# ยง 709.8   Expedited determination of creditor claims.

(a) *General.* The provisions of this section establish procedures under which claimants may request expedited relief in lieu of the procedures set forth in ยง 709.6 of this part. A claimant shall be entitled to expedited determination of a claim only upon a showing that there exists a legally valid and enforceable or perfected security interest in assets of the liquidated credit union and that irreparable injury will occur if the routine claims procedure is followed.


(b) *Filing of request for expedited relief.* All requests for expedited relief must be filed within 30 days from the date of mailing, by the liquidating agent, of the notice to the creditor concerned. The request shall be deemed to be filed when received by the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428. A copy of the request must be simultaneously served upon the liquidating agent for the credit union concerned. There shall be no right of personal appearance before the Board in connection with any claim submitted under this paragraph.


(c) *Content of request for expedited relief.* Any Request for Expedited Relief must contain the following:


(1) A clear and concise statement of the facts and issues on which the request is based;


(2) A clear and concise statement describing the nature of any security interests in any assets of the credit union;


(3) A clear and concise statement of the probable, imminent and irreparable harm likely to occur if expedited relief is not granted;


(4) An assessment of the likelihood of success on the merits of the underlying claim, including statutory citations and relevant documentation supporting the merits of the claim;


(5) Any other relevant documentation that supports the request;


(6) Citations to applicable statutes, regulations, or other legal authority; and


(7) A signed statement certifying that a copy of the request has been mailed or hand delivered to the liquidating agent on or before the day that the request was filed with the Board.


(d) *Burden of proof.* The burden of proving entitlement to expedited relief rests at all times with the requester.


(e) *Additional information.* The Board may order the filing of additional information and or documentation in order to make its determination. Such filing shall be on a date certain, and failure to provide the additional documentation or information may constitute the sole grounds for denial of the request.


(f) *Decision.* Before the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date a request is filed, the Board shall render its decision and provide it to the requester. The Board will determine whether to grant expedited review and allow or disallow the claim or whether such claim should be resolved pursuant to the claims process described in ยง 709.6 of this part.


(1) *Expedited review denied.* A decision by the Board that expedited review is not appropriate shall be final and the claim shall be decided pursuant to the claims adjudication process set forth in ยง 709.6 of this part.


(2) *Expedited review granted.* If expedited review is granted, the Board shall decide the claim. If the claim is disallowed, in whole or part, the decision shall contain a statement of each reason for the disallowance and the procedure for obtaining judicial review.


(g) *Period for filing or renewing suit.* Any claimant who files a request for expedited relief shall be permitted to file a suit, or to continue a suit filed before the appointment of the liquidating agent, seeking a determination of the claimant's rights with respect to its security interest after the earlier of:


(1) The end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the filing of a request for expedited relief; or


(2) The date the Board denies all or part of the claim.


(h) *Statute of limitations.* If an action described in paragraph (g) of this section is not filed, or the motion to renew a previously filed suit is not made, before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which such action or motion may be filed in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, the claim shall be deemed to be disallowed as of the end of such period (other than any portion of such claim that was allowed by the Board). Such disallowance shall be final and the claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to such claim. 



---

[N] [56 FR 56925, Nov. 7, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 36041, July 15, 1994; 75 FR 34621, June 18, 2010. Redesignated at 82 FR 50294, Oct. 30, 2017; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020]




