# § 488.805   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Directed plan of correction* means CMS or the temporary manager (with CMS/SA approval) may direct the HHA to take specific corrective action to achieve specific outcomes within specific timeframes.


*Immediate jeopardy* means a situation in which the provider's noncompliance with one or more requirements of participation has caused, or is likely to cause serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to a patient(s).


*New admission* means an individual who becomes a patient or is readmitted to the HHA on or after the effective date of a suspension of payment sanction.


*Per instance* means a single event of noncompliance identified and corrected through a survey, for which the statute authorizes CMS to impose a sanction.


*Plan of correction* means a plan developed by the HHA and approved by CMS that is the HHA's written response to survey findings detailing corrective actions to cited deficiencies and specifies the date by which those deficiencies will be corrected.


*Repeat deficiency* means a condition-level citation that is cited on the current survey and is substantially the same as or similar to, a finding of a standard-level or condition-level deficiency citation cited on the most recent previous standard survey or on any intervening survey since the most recent standard survey.


*Temporary management* means the temporary appointment by CMS or by a CMS authorized agent, of a substitute manager or administrator based upon qualifications described in §§ 484.105(b) and 484.115 of this chapter. The HHA's governing body must ensure that the temporary manager has authority to hire, terminate or reassign staff, obligate funds, alter procedures, and manage the HHA to correct deficiencies identified in the HHA's operation.



---

[N] [77 FR 67165, Nov. 8, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 4591, Jan. 13, 2017]




