# § 170.405   Entry restrictions associated with pesticide applications.

(a) *Outdoor production pesticide applications.* (1) The application exclusion zone is defined as follows:


(i) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 100 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is applied by any of the following methods:


(A) Aerially.


(B) Air blast or air-propelled applications.


(C) As a fumigant, smoke, mist, or fog.


(D) As a spray using nozzles or nozzle configurations which produce a droplet size of smaller than medium, in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section).




(ii) The application exclusion zone is the area that extends 25 feet horizontally from the point(s) of pesticide discharge from the application equipment in all directions during application when the pesticide is sprayed from a height of greater than 12 inches from the soil surface or planting medium using nozzles or nozzle configurations which produce a droplet size of medium or larger in accordance with the meaning given to “medium” in ANSI/ASAE S572, ANSI/ASAE S572.1, ANSI/ASAE S572.2, or ANSI/ASAE S572.3 (all incorporated by reference, see paragraph (c) of this section), and not as in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.




(iii) There is no application exclusion zone when the pesticide is applied in a manner other than those covered in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) During any outdoor production pesticide application, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person to enter or to remain in the treated area or an application exclusion zone that is within the boundaries of the establishment until the application is complete, except for:


(i) Appropriately trained and equipped handlers involved in the application, and


(ii) Owners of the agricultural establishment and their immediate family members who remain inside closed buildings, housing, or shelters under the conditions specified in § 170.601(a)(1)(vi).




(3) After the application is complete, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407 is the treated area.


(b) *Enclosed space production pesticide applications.* (1) During any enclosed space production pesticide application described in column A of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section, the agricultural employer must not allow or direct any worker or other person, other than an appropriately trained and equipped handler involved in the application, to enter or to remain in the area specified in column B of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section during the application and until the time specified in column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section has expired.


(2) After the time specified in column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section has expired, the area subject to the labeling-specified restricted-entry interval and the post-application entry restrictions specified in § 170.407 is the area specified in column D of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) When column C of table 1 to paragraph (b) of this section specifies that ventilation criteria must be met, ventilation must continue until the air concentration is measured to be equal to or less than the inhalation exposure level required by the labeling. If no inhalation exposure level is listed on the labeling, ventilation must continue until after one of the following conditions is met:


(i) Ten air exchanges are completed.


(ii) Two hours of ventilation using fans or other mechanical ventilating systems.


(iii) Four hours of ventilation using vents, windows, or other passive ventilation.


(iv) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by one hour of mechanical ventilation.


(v) Eleven hours with no ventilation followed by two hours of passive ventilation.


(vi) Twenty-four hours with no ventilation.


(c) *Incorporation by reference.* The material listed in this paragraph (c) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: OPP Docket, Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), West William Jefferson Clinton Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC. The EPA/DC Public Reading Room hours of operation are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number of the EPA/DC Public Reading room and the OPP Docket is (202) 566-1744. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, 2950 Niles Road, St. Joseph, MI 49085, (269) 429-0300, *https://www.asabe.org.*

(1) ANSI/ASAE S572 FEB2004, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, reaffirmed February 2004 (ANSI/ASAE S572).


(2) ANSI/ASAE S572.1 MAR2009 (R2017), Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, reaffirmed December 2017 (ANSI/ASAE S572.1).


(3) ANSI/ASAE S572.2 JUL2018, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, ANSI approved July 2018 (ANSI/ASAE S572.2).


(4) ANSI/ASAE S572.3, Spray Nozzle Classification by Droplet Spectra, ANSI approved February 2020 (ANSI/ASAE S572.3).





---

[N] [80 FR 67562, Nov. 2, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 68781, Oct. 30, 2020; 89 FR 80786, Oct. 4, 2024]




