# ยง 1.151   Commission decision on the Authority's proposed budget.

(a) *Commission approval required.* The Authority's proposed budget takes effect only if approved by the Commission. The Commission will approve or disapprove the proposed budget after considering the public comments filed and the Commission's internal review of the Authority's submissions pursuant to ยง 1.150. The Commission may, in its discretion, require the Authority to submit additional information to the Commission before the Commission approves or disapproves the proposed budget. The Commission will vote on the Authority's proposed budget no later than November 1, or as soon thereafter as practicable.


(b) *Conditional collection of fees allowed.* The notice required to be sent to State racing commissions estimating the amount required from each State for the subsequent year must state that the amount required is based on the proposed annual budget, as approved by the Board of Directors, which takes effect only if approved by the Commission. State racing commissions (or covered persons in States that do not elect to remit fees) may nevertheless elect to remit fees, and the Authority may conditionally collect them, even before the Commission approves the proposed budget. If the Commission makes any modifications to line items under paragraph (d) of this section that have the net effect of reducing the budget, the Authority must, within 30 days, refund the proportionate amount owed to any State racing commission or covered person that has conditionally paid. If the Commission makes any modifications to line items under paragraph (d) of this section that have the net effect of increasing the budget, the Authority may obtain loans to make up the difference or may account for the difference as a funding shortfall incurred in the subsequent year's proposed budget.


(c) *Decisional criteria.* The Commission will approve the proposed budget if the Commission determines that, on balance, the proposed budget is consistent with and serves the goals of the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act in a prudent and cost-effective manner and that its anticipated revenues are sufficient to meet its anticipated expenditures.


(d) *Modification of line items.* In its decision on the proposed budget, the Commission may modify the amount of any line item.






