# ยง 35.3575   Application of Federal cross-cutting authorities (cross-cutters).

(a) *General.* A number of Federal laws, executive orders, and government-wide policies apply by their own terms to projects and activities receiving Federal financial assistance, regardless of whether the statute authorizing the assistance makes them applicable. A few cross-cutters apply by their own terms only to the State as the grant recipient because the authorities explicitly limit their application to grant recipients. 


(b) *Application of cross-cutter requirements.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section and in ยง 35.3580, cross-cutter requirements apply in the following manner: 


(1) All projects for which a State provides assistance in amounts up to the amount of the capitalization grant deposited into the Fund must comply with the requirements of the cross-cutters. Activities for which a State provides assistance from capitalization grant funds deposited into set-aside accounts must comply with the requirements of the cross-cutters, to the extent that the requirements of the cross-cutters are applicable. 


(2) Projects and activities for which a State provides assistance in amounts that are greater than the amount of the capitalization grant deposited into the Fund or set-aside accounts are not subject to the requirements of the cross-cutters. 


(3) A State that elects to impose the requirements of the cross-cutters on projects and activities for which it provides assistance in amounts that are greater than the amount of the capitalization grant deposited into the Fund or set-aside accounts may credit this excess to meet future cross-cutter requirements on assistance provided from the respective accounts. 


(c) *Federal anti-discrimination law requirements.* All programs, projects, and activities for which a State provides assistance are subject to the following Federal anti-discrimination laws: Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.;* section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794; and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6102. 


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) *Complying with cross-cutters.* A State is responsible for ensuring that assistance recipients comply with the requirements of cross-cutters, including initiating any required consultations with State or Federal agencies responsible for individual cross-cutters. A State must inform EPA when consultation or coordination with other Federal agencies is necessary to resolve issues regarding compliance with cross-cutter requirements. 



---

[N] [65 FR 48299, Aug. 7, 2000, as amended at 73 FR 15922, Mar. 26, 2008]




