# ยง 11.807   Experience requirements for registry.

(a) The applicant for a certificate of registry as staff officer must submit evidence of experience as follows:


(1) *Chief Purser.* Two years of service aboard vessels performing duties relating to work in the Purser's office.


(2) *Purser.* One year of service aboard vessels performing duties relating to work in the Purser's office.


(3) *Senior Assistant Purser.* Six months of service aboard vessels performing duties relating to work in the Purser's office.


(4) *Junior Assistant Purser.* Previous experience not required.


(5) *Medical Doctor.* A valid License as physician or surgeon issued under the authority of a state or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.


(6) *Professional Nurse.* A valid License as a registered nurse issued under authority of a state or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.


(7) *Marine Physician Assistant.* Successful completion of an accredited course of instruction for a physician's assistant or nurse practitioner program.


(8) *Medical Technician.* A rating of at least hospital corpsman or health services technician, first class, in the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard, or an equivalent rating in the U.S. Army (not less than Staff Sergeant, Medical Department, U.S.A.), or in the U.S. Air Force (not less than Technical Sergeant, Medical Department, U.S.A.F.), and a period of satisfactory service of at least 1 month in a military hospital.


(b) Employment on shore in connection with a vessel's business may be accepted instead of service aboard vessels. Related shore employment is accepted in the ratio of 2 months of shore service to 1 month of creditable service aboard vessels.


(c) In computing the length of service required of an applicant for an endorsement, service of one season on vessels on the Great Lakes is counted as service of 1 year.


(d) In the event an applicant for an endorsement, other than Medical Doctor or Professional Nurse, provides evidence of other qualifications that, in the opinion of the Coast Guard, is equivalent to the experience requirements of this section and is consistent with the duties of a staff officer, the Coast Guard may issue the MMC.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77909, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93097, Nov. 25, 2024; USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102336, Dec. 17, 2024]






