# ยง 7.48-1   Election to have investment credit for movie and television films determined in accordance with previous litigation.

(a) *Generally.* Under section 804(c)(3) of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94-455, 90 Stat. 1595), any taxpayer who filed an action in any court of competent jurisdiction before January 1, 1976, for a determination of such taxpayer's rights to investment credit under section 38 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 with respect to any film placed in service in any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1975, may elect to have investment credit on all films placed in service in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1975, (except those subject to an election under section 804(e)(2) of the Act), determined as though section 804 of the Act (except section 804(c)(3) of the Act) had not been enacted.


(b) *Manner of making the election.* The election allowed by section 804(c)(3) of the Act may be made by a notification in the form of a letter signed by the taxpayer or an authorized representative of the taxpayer stating:


(1) The taxpayer's name, address, and identification number;


(2) The taxable years in which the films were placed in service with respect to which the election shall apply; and


(3) The court in which the litigation was commenced and information adequate to identify the particular litigation, for example, the names of the litigants, the date the suit was commenced, and the court case or docket number of the litigation.


(c) *Time for making the election.* The election under section 804(c)(3) of the Act must be made not later than January 3, 1977. If mailed, the cover containing the notification of such election must be postmarked not later than January 3, 1977.


(d) *Revocation of election.* An election under section 804(c)(3) of the Act, once made, shall be irrevocable.



---

[N] [T.D. 7449, 41 FR 56629, Dec. 29, 1976]




