# ยง 1150.10   Procedures.

(a) *Waivers.* Prior to filing an application, prospective applicants may seek an advance waiver, either on a permanent or temporary basis, of required information which is unavailable or not necessary or useful in analysis of the proposal. However, if the information is clearly not applicable to the individual proposal, a waiver is not necessary and need not be sought. A petition must specify the sections for which waiver or clarification is sought and the reasons why it should be granted. No replies will be permitted. Parties may, upon an appropriate showing, demonstrate their need to examine data which have previously been waived. In such circumstances, the Board only requires that it be produced under ยง 1150.8 above.


(b) *Filing procedures.* An application and all documents shall be filed with the Chief, Section of Administration, Office of Proceedings. A filing fee in the amount set forth in 49 CFR 1002.2(f) is required to file an application. Copies of documents shall be furnished promptly to interested parties upon request. The application may include a stamped self-addressed envelope to be used to notify applicant of the docket number. Additionally, if possible, telephonic communication of the docket number shall be made.


(c) *Signatures.* The original of the application shall be signed by applicants (if a partnership, all general partners must sign; and if a corporation, association, or other similar form of organization, the signature should be that of the executive officer having knowledge of the matters and designated for that purpose). Applications shall be made under oath and shall contain an appropriate certification (if a corporation, by its secretary) showing that the affiant is duly authorized to verify and file the application. Any persons controlling an applicant shall also sign the application.


(d) *Related applications.* Applicant shall file concurrently all directly related applications (e.g., to issue securities, control motor carriers, obtain access to terminal operations, acquire trackage rights). All such applications will be considered with the main application.


(e) *Service.* As soon as the docket number is obtained the applicant shall serve a conformed copy of the application by first-class mail upon the Governor (or Executive Officer), Public Service Board, and Department of Transportation of each State in which any part of the properties involved in the proposed transaction is located. Within 2 weeks of filing, applicant shall submit to the Board a copy of the certificate of service indicating that all persons so designated have been served a copy of the application.


(f) *Publication.* Within 2 weeks of filing, applicant shall have published the summary of the application (prepared under ยง 1150.9) in a newspaper of general circulation in each county in which the line is located. The notice should inform interested parties of the date by which they must advise the Board of their interest in the proceeding. This date shall be calculated as the 35th day after the filing of the application which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday in the District of Columbia. Applicant must file an affidavit of publication immediately after the publication has been completed. The Board will, as soon as practicable, either publish the notice summary in the _Federal Register_ or reject the application if it is incomplete.


(g) *Public participation.* Written comments must be filed within 35 days of the filing of the application. Comments must contain the basis for the party's position either in support or opposition. Applicant must be served with a copy of each comment. On the basis of the comments and the assessment by the Office of Environmental Analysis, the Board will decide if a hearing is necessary. A hearing may be either oral or through receipt of written statements (modified procedure). (*See* 49 CFR part 1112 *et seq.*) If there is no opposition to the application, additional evidence normally need not be filed, and a decision will be reached using the information in the application.


(h) *Replies to written comments.* Applicant's replies will be considered by the Board provided they are filed and served within 5 days of the due date of the pleadings they address.



---

[N] [47 FR 8199, Feb. 25, 1982. Redesignated at 47 FR 49581, Nov. 1, 1982, and amended at 52 FR 46483, Dec. 8, 1987; 53 FR 19302, May 27, 1988; 64 FR 53268, Oct. 1, 1999; 74 FR 52908, Oct. 15, 2009; 83 FR 15079, Apr. 9, 2018; 84 FR 12945, Apr. 3, 2019]




