# ยง 49.535   What are the options and timeframe to respond to the final assessment of civil penalty?

(a) *Response options.* A person who receives a final assessment of civil penalty may, within 30 days of the date the assessment is received, do one of the following:


(1) Accept the final assessment of civil penalty, either in writing, by payment of the final assessment, or by failing to timely file a request for hearing under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; or


(2) File a request for a hearing on the final assessment of civil penalty before a DCHD administrative law judge via:


(i) Registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other delivery service method, deliver receipt requested, at DCHD's address specified in the final assessment of the civil penalty; or


(ii) Electronic means in accordance with an OHA Standing Order which is available on OHA's website at the web address specified in the final assessment of civil penalty.


(b) *Content of request for hearing.* A request for hearing must:


(1) Be signed by the person who receives the final assessment of civil penalty or a representative qualified to represent that person under 43 CFR 1.3.


(2) Identify the final assessment of civil penalty being challenged.


(3) State clearly and concisely the reasons for challenging the final assessment, including the reasons why the person believes that he or she did not commit a violation and/or that the final assessment of civil penalty should be reduced or eliminated.


(4) State the relief sought and the basis for that relief.


(5) Be accompanied by the following documentation:


(i) A copy of the notice of violation and proposed civil penalty;


(ii) A copy of any objection and supporting documentation filed under ยง 49.515(a); and


(iii) A copy of the final assessment of civil penalty.


(6) Contain a certificate acknowledging service of the request for hearing with the documentation listed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to the Office of the Solicitor at the address identified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Service of request for hearing.* The person filing a request for hearing must simultaneously send a copy of the request and the accompanying documentation via certified mail, return receipt requested, or other verifiable delivery method to the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior at the address specified in the final assessment of civil penalty.


(d) *Dismissal of hearing request.* (1) If the request for hearing is not received by DCHD within 30 days of the date of receipt of the final assessment, the request for hearing will not be considered and the hearing will be dismissed.


(2) The request for hearing may be dismissed for failing to meet any of the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Waiver of hearing right.* A person who accepts the final assessment under paragraph (a)(1) of this section waives the right to a hearing.




