# ยง 600.1400   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson-Stevens Act) and in ยง 600.10 of this title, the terms used in this subpart have the following meanings. For purposes of this subpart, if applicable, the terms used in this subpart supersede those used in ยง 600.10.


*Anadromous species* means the following:


*Angler* means a person who is angling (see 50 CFR 600.10) in tidal waters.


*Authorized officer* has the same meaning as in 50 CFR 600.10.


*Combination license* means either:


(1) A single state fishing license that permits fishing in fresh waters and tidal waters at one price; or


(2) A single state license that permits a group of fishing and hunting activities, including fishing in tidal waters, at a price that is less than the sum of the cost of the individual licenses.


*Commercial fishing* has the same meaning as in 16 U.S.C. 1802.


*Continental shelf fishery resources* has the same meaning as in 16 U.S.C. 1802.


*Exempted state* means a state that has been designated as an exempted state by NMFS pursuant to ยง 600.1415.


*For-hire fishing vessel* means a vessel on which passengers are carried to engage in angling or spear fishing, from whom a consideration is contributed as a condition of such carriage, whether directly or indirectly flowing to the owner, charterer, operator, agent or any other person having an interest in the vessel.


*Indigenous people* means persons who are documented members of a federally recognized tribe or Alaskan Native Corporation or persons who reside in the western Pacific who are descended from the aboriginal people indigenous to the region who conducted commercial or subsistence fishing using traditional fishing methods, including angling.


*Spearfishing* means fishing for, attempting to fish for, catching or attempting to catch fish in tidal waters by any person with a spear or a powerhead (see 50 CFR 600.10).


*State* has the same meaning as in 16 U.S.C. 1802.


*Tidal waters* means waters that lie below mean high water and seaward of the first upstream obstruction or barrier to tidal action and that are subject to the ebb and flow of the astronomical tides under ordinary conditions.



---

[N] [77 FR 42191, July 18, 2012]




