# § 9.20   Traumatic injury protection.

(a) *What is traumatic injury protection?* Traumatic injury protection provides for the payment of a specified benefit amount to a member insured by Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance who sustains a traumatic injury directly resulting in a scheduled loss.


(b) *What is a traumatic event?* (1) A traumatic event is damage to a living being occurring on or after October 7, 2001, caused by:


(i) Application of an external force;


(ii) Application of violence or chemical, biological, or radiological weapons;


(iii) Accidental ingestion of a contaminated substance;


(iv) Exposure to low environmental temperatures, excessive heat, or documented non-penetrating blast waves; or


(v) An insect bite or sting or animal bite.



 




(2) A traumatic event does not include a medical or surgical procedure in and of itself.




(c) *What is a traumatic injury?* (1) A traumatic injury is physical damage to a living body that is caused by a traumatic event as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) For purposes of this section, the term “traumatic injury” does not include damage to a living body caused by—


(i) A mental disorder; or


(ii) A mental or physical illness or disease, except if the physical illness or disease is caused by a pyogenic infection, biological, chemical, or radiological weapons, or accidental ingestion of a contaminated substance.


(3) The term traumatic injury includes anaphylactic shock directly caused by an insect bite or sting or animal bite.


(4) For purposes of this section, all traumatic injuries will be considered to have occurred at the same time as the traumatic event.


(d) *What are the eligibility requirements for payment of traumatic injury protection benefits?* You must meet all of the following requirements in order to be eligible for traumatic injury protection benefits.


(1) You must be a member of the uniformed services who is insured by Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance under section 1967(a)(1)(A)(i), (B) or (C)(i) of title 38, United States Code, on the date you sustained a traumatic injury, except if you are a member who experienced a traumatic injury on or after October 7, 2001, through and including November 30, 2005. (For this purpose, you will be considered a member of the uniformed services until midnight on the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established your eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, notwithstanding an extension of your Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance coverage under section 1968(a) of title 38, United States Code.)




(2) You must suffer a scheduled loss that results directly from a traumatic injury and from no other cause.


(i) A scheduled loss does not result directly from a traumatic injury and from no other cause if a pre-existing illness, condition, or disease or a post-service injury substantially contributed to the loss.


(ii) A scheduled loss results directly from a traumatic injury and no other cause if the loss is caused by a medical or surgical procedure used to treat the traumatic injury.




(3) You must survive for a period not less than seven full days from the date of the traumatic injury. The seven day period begins on the date and Zulu (Greenwich Meridean) time of the traumatic injury and ends 168 full hours later.


(4) You must suffer a scheduled loss under § 9.21(c) within two years of the traumatic injury.


(i) If a loss with a required time period milestone begins but is not completed within two years of the traumatic injury, the loss would nonetheless qualify for TSGLI if the requisite time period of loss continues uninterrupted and concludes after the end of the two-year period.


(ii) If a required time period for a loss is satisfied before the end of the two-year period and a member suffers another period of loss after expiration of the two-year time limit, the member is not entitled to TSGLI for this time period of loss.




(5) You must suffer a traumatic injury before midnight on the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. For purposes of this section, the scheduled loss may occur after the date of termination of your duty status in the uniformed services that established eligibility for Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance.


(e) *What is a scheduled loss and what amount will be paid because of that loss?* (1) The term “scheduled loss” means a condition listed in the schedule in § 9.21(c) if directly caused by a traumatic injury and from no other cause. A scheduled loss is payable at the amount specified in the schedule. 


(2) The maximum amount payable under the schedule for all losses resulting from traumatic events occurring within a seven-day period is $100,000. We will calculate the seven-day period beginning with the day on which the first traumatic event occurs.


(3) A benefit will not be paid if a scheduled loss is due to a traumatic injury—


(i) Caused by—


(A) The member's attempted suicide, while sane or insane;


(B) An intentionally self-inflicted injury or an attempt to inflict such injury;


(C) Diagnostic procedures, preventive medical procedures such as inoculations, medical or surgical treatment for an illness or disease, or any complications arising from such procedures or treatment, unless the diagnostic procedure or medical or surgical treatment is necessary to treat a traumatic injury;




(D) Willful use of an illegal substance or a controlled substance unless administered or consumed on the advice of a medical professional; or


(ii) Sustained while a member was committing an act that clearly violated a penal law classifying such an act as a felony.


(4) A benefit will not be paid for a scheduled loss resulting from—


(i) A physical or mental illness or disease, whether or not caused by a traumatic injury, other than a pyogenic infection or physical illness or disease caused by biological, chemical, or radiological weapons or accidental ingestion of a contaminated substance; or


(ii) A mental disorder whether or not caused by a traumatic injury.


(5) Amount Payable under the Schedule of Losses. (i) The maximum amount payable for all scheduled losses resulting from a single traumatic event is limited to $100,000. For example, if a traumatic event on April 1, 2006, results in the immediate total and permanent loss of sight in both eyes, and the loss of one foot on May 1, 2006, as a direct result of the same traumatic event, the member will be paid $100,000.


(ii) If a member suffers more than one scheduled loss from separate traumatic events occurring more than seven full days apart, the scheduled losses will be considered separately and a benefit will be paid for each loss up to the maximum amount according to the schedule. For example, if a member suffers the loss of one foot at or above the ankle on May 1, 2006, from one event, the member will be paid $50,000. If the same member suffers loss of sight in both eyes from an event that occurred on November 1, 2006, the member will be paid an additional $100,000.




(6) Definitions. For purposes of this section and § 9.21—


(i) The term *biological weapon* means biological agents or microorganisms intended to kill, seriously injure, or incapacitate humans through their physiological effects.


(ii) The term *chemical weapon* means chemical substances intended to kill, seriously injure, or incapacitate humans through their physiological effects.


(iii) The term *contaminated substance* means food or water made unfit for consumption by humans because of the presence of chemicals, radioactive elements, bacteria, or organisms.


(iv) The term *external force* means a sudden or violent impact from a source outside of the body that causes an unexpected impact and is independent of routine body motions such as twisting, lifting, bending, pushing, or pulling.


(v) The term *ingestion* means to take into the gastrointestinal tract by means of the mouth.


(vi) The term *medical professional* means a licensed practitioner of the healing arts acting within the scope of his or her practice, including, *e.g.,* a licensed physician, optometrist, nurse practitioner, registered nurse, physician assistant, or audiologist.


(vii) The term *medically incapacitated* means an individual who has been determined by a medical professional to be physically or mentally impaired by physical disability, mental illness, mental deficiency, advanced age, chronic use of drugs or alcohol, or other causes that prevent sufficient understanding or capacity to manage his or her own affairs competently.


(viii) The term *pyogenic infection* means a pus-producing infection.


(ix) The term *radiological weapon* means radioactive materials or radiation-producing devices intended to kill, seriously injure, or incapacitate humans through their physiological effects.








(f) *How does a member make a claim for traumatic injury protection benefits?* (1)(i) A member who believes he or she qualifies for traumatic injury protection benefits must complete and sign Part A of the TSGLI Benefits Form and submit evidence substantiating the member's traumatic injury and resulting loss. A medical professional must complete and sign Part B of the Application for TSGLI Benefits Form.


(ii) If a medical professional certifies in Part B of the Application for TSGLI Benefits Form that a member is unable to sign Part A of the Form because the member is medically incapacitated, the Form must be signed by one of the following: The member's guardian; if none, the member's agent or attorney acting under a valid Power of Attorney; if none, the member's military trustee.


(iii) If a member suffered a scheduled loss as a direct result of the traumatic injury, survived seven full days from the date of the traumatic event, and then died before the maximum benefit for which the service member qualifies is paid, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of the member's Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance policy should complete an Application for TSGLI Benefits Form.




(2) If a member seeks traumatic injury protection benefits for a scheduled loss occurring after submission of a completed Application for TSGLI Benefits Form for a different scheduled loss, the member must submit a completed Application for TSGLI Benefits Form for the new scheduled loss and for each scheduled loss that occurs thereafter and for each increment of a scheduled loss that occurs thereafter. For example, if a member seeks traumatic injury protection benefits for a scheduled loss due to coma from traumatic injury and/or the inability to carry out activities of daily living due to traumatic brain injury (§ 9.21(c)(17)), or the inability to carry out activities of daily living due to loss directly resulting from a traumatic injury other than an injury to the brain (§ 9.21(c)(20)), a completed Application for TSGLI Benefits Form must be submitted for each increment of time for which TSGLI is payable. Also, for example, if a member suffers a scheduled loss due to a coma, a completed Application for TSGLI Benefits Form should be filed after the 15th consecutive day that the member is in the coma, for which $25,000 is payable. If the member remains in a coma for another 15 days, another completed Application for TSGLI Benefits Form should be submitted and another $25,000 will be paid.




(g) *How will the uniformed service decide a TSGLI claim?* (1) Each uniformed service will certify its own members for traumatic injury protection benefits based upon section 1032 of Public Law 109-13, section 501 of Public Law 109-233, and this section. The uniformed service will certify whether a member was insured under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance at the time of the traumatic injury and whether the member sustained a qualifying traumatic injury and qualifying loss.


(2) The uniformed service office may request additional evidence from the member if the record does not contain sufficient evidence to decide the member's claim.


(3) The uniformed service office shall consider all medical and lay evidence of record, including all evidence provided by the member, and determine its probative value. When there is an approximate balance of positive and negative evidence regarding any issue material to the determination of TSGLI benefits, the uniformed service shall give the benefit of the doubt to the member.


(4) Notice of a decision regarding a member's eligibility for traumatic injury protection benefits will include an explanation of the procedure for obtaining review of the decision, and all negative decisions shall include a statement of the basis for the decision and a summary of the evidence considered.






(h) *How does a member or beneficiary appeal an adverse eligibility determination?* (1) Each uniformed service has a three-tiered appeal process. The first tier of appeal is called a reconsideration, followed by a second-level appeal and then a third-level appeal. A member, beneficiary, or other person eligible to submit a claim under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) or (iii) may submit an appeal using the appeal process of the uniformed service that issued the original decision.


(i) *Reconsideration.* (A) Reconsideration of an eligibility determination, such as whether the loss occurred within 730 days of the traumatic injury, whether the member was insured under Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance when the traumatic injury was sustained, or whether the injury was self-inflicted or whether a loss of hearing was total and permanent, is initiated by filing, with the office of the uniformed service identified in the eligibility decision within one year of the date of a denial of eligibility, a written notice of appeal that identifies the issues for which reconsideration is sought.


(B) The uniformed service TSGLI office will review the claim, including evidence submitted with the notice of appeal by or on behalf of the member that was not previously part of the record before the uniformed service, and issue a decision on the claim.


(ii) *Second-level appeal.* (A) A second-level appeal of the reconsideration decision is initiated by filing, with the second-level appeal office of the uniformed service within one year of the date of the reconsideration decision, a written notice of appeal that identifies the issues being appealed.


(B) The uniformed service second-level appeal office will review the claim, including evidence submitted with the notice of appeal by or on behalf of the member that was not previously part of the record before the uniformed service, and issue a decision on the claim.


(iii) *Third-level appeal.* (A) A third-level review of the second-level uniformed service appeal office is initiated by filing, with the third-level appeal office of the uniformed service within one year of the date of the decision by the second-level appeal office of the uniformed service, a written notice of appeal that identifies the issues being appealed.


(B) The uniformed service third-level appeal office will review the claim, including evidence submitted with the notice of appeal by or on behalf of the member that was not previously part of the record before the uniformed service, and issue a decision on the claim.


(2) If a timely notice of appeal seeking reconsideration of the initial decision by the uniformed service or seeking review of the decision by the second-level uniformed service appeal office is not filed, the initial decision by the uniformed service or the decision by the second-level uniformed service appeal office, respectively, shall become final, and the claim will not thereafter be readjudicated or allowed except as provided in paragraph (h)(3).


(3) New and material evidence. (i) If a member, beneficiary, or other person eligible to submit a claim under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) or (iii) submits new and material evidence with respect to a claim that has been finally disallowed as provided in paragraph (h)(2), the uniformed service office will consider the evidence, determine its probative value, and readjudicate the claim. New and material evidence is evidence that was not previously part of the record before the uniformed service, is not cumulative or redundant of evidence of record at the time of the prior decision and is likely to have a substantial effect on the outcome.


(ii) A decision finding that new and material evidence was not submitted may be appealed in accordance with paragraph (h)(1).


(4) Nothing in this section precludes a member from pursuing legal remedies under 38 U.S.C. 1975 and 38 CFR 9.13. However, if a member files suit in U.S. district court after an adverse initial decision on a TSGLI claim by a uniformed service, the member may not file an appeal pursuant to paragraph (h)(1) if the lawsuit is pending before a U.S. district court, a U.S. court of appeals, or the U.S. Supreme Court or the time for appeal or filing a petition for a writ of certiorari has not expired. If a member files suit in U.S. district court after filing an appeal pursuant to paragraph (h)(1), the appeal will be stayed if the lawsuit is pending before a U.S. district court, a U.S. court of appeals, or the U.S. Supreme Court or the time for appeal or filing a petition for a writ of certiorari has not expired.


(i) *Who will be paid the traumatic injury protection benefit?* The injured member who suffered a scheduled loss will be paid the traumatic injury protection benefit in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1980A except under the following circumstances:


(A) If a member has been determined by a medical professional, in Part B of the Application for TSGLI Benefits Form, to be medically incapacitated, the member's guardian or, or if there is no guardian, the member's agent or attorney acting under a valid Power of Attorney will be paid the benefit on behalf of the member.


(B) If no guardian, agent, or attorney is authorized to act as the member's legal representative, a military trustee who has been appointed under the authority of 37 U.S.C. 602 will be paid the benefit on behalf of the member. The military trustee will report the receipt of the traumatic injury benefit payment and any disbursements from that payment to the Department of Defense.


(C) If a member dies before payment is made, the beneficiary or beneficiaries who will be paid the benefit will be determined in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1970(a).




(j) The Traumatic Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance program will be administered in accordance with this rule, except to the extent that any regulatory provision is inconsistent with subsequently enacted applicable law.

















---

[N] [70 FR 75946, Dec. 22, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 10365, Mar. 8, 2007; 73 FR 71930, Nov. 26, 2008; 76 FR 75460, Dec. 2, 2011; 79 FR 44299, July 31, 2014; 88 FR 15910, Mar. 15, 2023]






