# § 19.163   Area operations bond.

(a) *Area operations bond covering multiple locations.* A person who operates more than one distilled spirits plant within the geographical area serviced by the National Revenue Center may submit to TTB an area operations bond covering the operations of any two or more such plants and any bonded wine cellars that are adjacent to such plants and which otherwise could be covered by an operations bond. Area operations bonds filed under this section will be in lieu of the operations bond requirements for single distilled spirits plants under §§ 19.161 and 19.166 and must contain the same terms and conditions as those contained in separate bonds filed for single distilled spirits plants. Any person who files an area operations bond may not allocate or divide the penal sum of the area operations bond between the separate locations and the total penal sum of the bond must be available to satisfy liability incurred at any of the covered locations.


(b) *Area operations bonds filed by corporations.* An area operations bond may only cover distilled spirits plants and adjacent bonded wine cellars that are operated by the same person. For purposes of this section, a corporation and its controlled subsidiaries are considered to be one person. Further, a controlled subsidiary is a corporation in which more than 50 percent of the voting power is controlled by the parent corporation. Consequently, an area operations bond may cover distilled spirits plants and adjacent bonded wine cellars operated by a parent corporation and one or more of its controlled subsidiaries. The name of each corporation that operates a covered facility must appear on the bond as a principal, whether the operating corporation is the parent or a subsidiary. The bond must bear an authorized signature for each operating corporation appearing on the bond.


