# § 9.9   Waiver of rules; delegation of authority.

(a) *Standards for waiver; notice to parties.* To prevent undue hardship on any party or for other good cause shown the Commission may waive any rule in this part in a particular case and may order proceedings in accordance with its direction upon a determination that no party will be prejudiced thereby and that the ends of justice will be served. Reasonable notice will be given to all parties of any action taken pursuant to this paragraph.


(b) *Delegation of authority.* (1) The Commission hereby delegates, until the Commission orders otherwise, to the General Counsel, or to any employee under the General Counsel's supervision as the General Counsel may designate, the authority:


(i) To waive or modify any of the requirements of §§ 9.20-9.25 and to waive or modify the requirements of the Commission's rules relating to reparations incorporated by § 9.3 insofar as such requirements pertain to changes in time permitted for filing, and to the form, execution, service and filing of documents;


(ii) To enter orders under §§ 9.5, 9.6 and 9.7;


(iii) To decline to accept any notice of appeal, or petition for stay pending review, of matters excluded from this part by §§ 9.1(b), 9.2(a) and 9.2(b), and to so notify the appellant and the exchange;


(iv) To stay the effective date of a disciplinary action for a period of time, not to exceed four days, to enable the Commission to rule on a petition for stay filed under § 9.24;


(v) To decline to accept any document which has not been timely filed or perfected, as specified in these rules;


(vi) To order the filing of the record of the exchange proceeding notwithstanding the submission of a motion under § 9.21(b) that the Commission not accept a notice of appeal; and


(vii) To enter any order which will facilitate or expedite Commission review.


(2) Within seven days after service of a ruling issued pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a party may file with the Proceedings Clerk a petition for Commission reconsideration of the ruling. Unless the Commission orders otherwise, the filing of a petition for reconsideration will not operate to stay the effective date of such ruling.


(3) The General Counsel, or his or her designee, may submit to the Commission for its consideration any matter which has been delegated pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(4) Nothing in this section will be deemed to prohibit the Commission, at its election, from exercising the authority delegated to the General Counsel, or his or her designee, under this section.



---

[N] [52 FR 25366, July 7, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 54801, Oct. 26, 1995; 64 FR 46270, Aug. 25, 1999; 78 FR 1145, Jan. 8, 2013; 83 FR 1547, Jan. 12, 2018]




