# § 35.1   Purpose and scope of this part.

(a) *General.* This part implements section 711 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (12 U.S.C. 1831y). That section requires any nongovernmental entity or person, insured depository institution, or affiliate of an insured depository institution that enters into a covered agreement to— 


(1) Make the covered agreement available to the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency; and 


(2) File an annual report with the appropriate Federal banking agency concerning the covered agreement. 


(b) *Scope of this part.* The provisions of this part apply to—


(1) A national bank and its subsidiaries;


(2) A Federal savings association and its subsidiaries; and


(3) Nongovernmental entities or persons (NGEPs) that enter into covered agreements with any entity listed in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Relation to Community Reinvestment Act.* This part does not affect in any way the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (CRA) (12 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*), part 25 of this chapter (Community Reinvestment Act and Interstate Deposit Production Regulations), or the OCC's interpretations or administration of that Act or part 25.


(d) *Examples.* (1) The examples in this part are not exclusive. Compliance with an example, to the extent applicable, constitutes compliance with this part. 


(2) Examples in a paragraph illustrate only the issue described in the paragraph and do not illustrate any other issues that may arise in this part. 



---

[N] [66 FR 2084, Jan. 10, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 28400, May 16, 2014; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]




