# § 70.802   Rules for disclosure of certain specified matters.

(a) *Accepted offers in compromise.* For each offer in compromise submitted and accepted pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 7122 in any case arising under Chapter 32 (relating to firearms and ammunition excise taxes) and Subtitle E (relating to alcohol, tobacco, and certain other excise taxes) of Title 26 of the United States Code, under section 107 of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 207) in any case arising under that Act, or in connection with property seized under Title I of the Gun Control Act of 1968 (18 U.S.C., Chapter 44) or title XI of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 (18 U.S.C., Chapter 40), a copy of the abstract and statement relating to the offer shall be kept available for public inspection, for a period of 1 year from the date of acceptance, with the appropriate TTB officer, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005. Information may not be disclosed, however, concerning any trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, apparatus, confidential data, or any other matter within the prohibition of 18 U.S.C. 1905. “Return information” (defined at 26 U.S.C. 6103 (b)) may not be disclosed except as provided by 26 U.S.C. 6103 (k) (1).


(b) *Information regarding liquor permits*—(1) *Applications for permits.* Information with respect to the handling of applications for basic permits under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 204) is maintained for public inspection until the expiration of 1 year following final action on these applications. See § 1.59 of this chapter for more details.


(c) *List of plants and permittees.* Upon request, the appropriate TTB officer shall furnish a list of any type of qualified proprietor or permittee if the disclosure is not prohibited by law. 


(d) *Information relating to certificates of label approval for distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages.* Upon written request, the appropriate TTB officer, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005, shall furnish information as to the issuance, pursuant to section 105(e) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (27 U.S.C. 205(e)) and Part 4, 5, or 7 of this chapter, of certificates of label approval, or of exemption from label approval, for distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages. The request must identify the class and type and brand name of the product and the name and address of the bottler or importer thereof or of the person to whom the certificate was issued. The person making the request may obtain reproductions or certified copies of such certificates upon payment of the established fees prescribed by 31 CFR 1.7. Information will not be disclosed, however, concerning any trade secrets, processes, operations, style of work, apparatus, confidential data, or any other matter prohibited by statutes such as but not limited to 18 U.S.C. 1905 or 26 U.S.C. 6103.


(e) *True identity of companies authorized to use trade names.* Information regarding the true identity (name and address) of companies authorized to use trade names is available from the appropriate TTB officer, for disclosure upon request to any member of the public.


(f) *Information relating to the tax classification of a roll of tobacco wrapped in reconstituted tobacco.* Upon written request, the appropriate TTB officer, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005, shall furnish information as to a Bureau determination of the tax classification of a roll of tobacco wrapped in reconstituted tobacco. The request must identify the brand name of the product and the name and address of the manufacturer or importer. Information may not be disclosed, however, concerning any trade secrets, processes, operations, apparatus, confidential data, or any other matter prohibited by statutes such as but not limited to 26 U.S.C. 6103 or 18 U.S.C. 1905.


(g) *Comments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking.* (1) The Bureau will post written comments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking to the appropriate rulemaking docket on the Regulations.gov website at *https://www.regulations.gov.* The Bureau reserves the right not to post lengthy paper comments or attachments requiring scanning, although a notice regarding the receipt of any such non-posted comments or attachments will be made to Regulations.gov. TTB will not post duplicate or anonymous comments to Regulations.gov.


(2) All comments and attachments received in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking may be inspected by any person in the Bureau's public reading room by appointment during normal business hours. Copies of comments (or portions therefore) also may be obtained. Appointment and copy requests may be addressed to the appropriate TTB officer in writing to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street NW, Box 12, Washington, DC 20005 or by telephone at 202-453-2265. A person requesting copies should allow a reasonable time for processing the request. The provisions of 31 CFR 1.7, relating to fees, apply to requests made in accordance with this paragraph.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-47, 43 FR 10687, Mar. 15, 1978, as amended by T.D. ATF-57, 44 FR 20794, May 9, 1979; T.D. ATF-201, 50 FR 12533, Mar. 29, 1985; T.D. ATF-249, 52 FR 5961, Feb. 27, 1987. Redesignated and amended by T.D. ATF-378, 61 FR 29955, 29956, June 13, 1996; T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29030, May 29, 2001; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5482, Feb. 1, 2011; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87952, Nov. 6, 2024]






