# ยง 86.5   Documentation requirements for interstate movement of covered livestock.

(a) *Responsible persons and required documentation.* The persons responsible for animals leaving a premises for interstate movement must ensure that the animals are accompanied by an interstate certificate of veterinary inspection (ICVI) or other document required by this part for the interstate movement of animals.


(b) *Forwarding of documents.* (1) The APHIS representative, State or Tribal representative, or accredited veterinarian issuing an ICVI or other document required for the interstate movement of animals under this part, must forward a copy of the ICVI or other document to the State or Tribal animal health official of the State or Tribe of origin within 7 calendar days from the date on which the ICVI or other document is issued. The State or Tribal animal health official in the State or Tribe of origin must forward a copy of the ICVI or other document to the State or Tribal animal health official in the State or Tribe of destination within 7 calendar days from date on which the ICVI or other document is received.


(2) The animal health official or accredited veterinarian issuing or receiving an ICVI or other interstate movement document in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section must keep a copy of the ICVI or alternate documentation. For poultry and swine, such documents must be kept for at least 2 years, and for cattle and bison, sheep and goats, cervids, and equine species, 5 years.


(c) *Cattle and bison.* Cattle and bison moved interstate must be accompanied by an ICVI unless:


(1) They are moved directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, or directly to an approved livestock facility and then directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment, and they are accompanied by an owner-shipper statement.


(2) They are moved directly to an approved livestock facility with an owner-shipper statement and do not move interstate from the facility unless accompanied by an ICVI.


(3) They are moved from the farm of origin for veterinary medical examination or treatment and returned to the farm of origin without change in ownership.


(4) They are moved directly from one State through another State and back to the original State.


(5) They are moved as a commuter herd with a copy of the commuter herd agreement or other document, as agreed to by the States or Tribes involved in the movement.


(6) Additionally, cattle and bison may be moved between shipping and receiving States or Tribes with documentation other than an ICVI, *e.g.,* a brand inspection certificate, as agreed upon by animal health officials in the shipping and receiving States or Tribes.


(7) The official identification number of cattle or bison must be recorded on the ICVI or alternate documentation unless:


(i) The cattle or bison are moved from an approved livestock facility directly to a recognized slaughtering establishment; or


(ii) The cattle and bison are sexually intact cattle or bison under 18 months of age or steers or spayed heifers; except that this paragraph (c)(7)(ii) does not apply to dairy cattle of any age or to cattle or bison used for rodeo, exhibition, or recreational purposes.


(d) *Horses and other equine species.* Horses and other equine species moved interstate must be accompanied by an ICVI unless:


(1) They are used as the mode of transportation (horseback, horse and buggy) for travel to another location and then return direct to the original location; or


(2) They are moved from the farm or stable for veterinary medical examination or treatment and returned to the same location without change in ownership; or


(3) They are moved directly from a location in one State through another State to a second location in the original State.


(4) Additionally, equids may be moved between shipping and receiving States or Tribes with documentation other than an ICVI, *e.g.,* an equine infectious anemia test chart, as agreed to by the shipping and receiving States or Tribes involved in the movement.


(5) Equids moving commercially to slaughter must be accompanied by documentation in accordance with part 88 of this subchapter. Equine infectious anemia reactors moving interstate must be accompanied by documentation as required by part 75 of this subchapter.


(e) *Poultry.* Poultry moved interstate must be accompanied by an ICVI unless:


(1) They are from a flock participating in the National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) and are accompanied by the documentation required under the NPIP regulations (parts 145 through 147 of this chapter) for participation in that program; or


(2) They are moved directly to a recognized slaughtering or rendering establishment; or


(3) They are moved from the farm of origin for veterinary medical examination, treatment, or diagnostic purposes and either returned to the farm of origin without change in ownership or euthanized and disposed of at the veterinary facility; or


(4) They are moved directly from one State through another State and back to the original State; or


(5) They are moved between shipping and receiving States or Tribes with a VS Form 9-3 or documentation other than an ICVI, as agreed upon by animal health officials in the shipping and receiving States or Tribes; or


(6) They are moved under permit in accordance with part 82 of this subchapter.


(f) *Sheep and goats.* Sheep and goats moved interstate must be accompanied by documentation as required by part 79 of this subchapter.


(g) *Swine.* Swine moved interstate must be accompanied by documentation in accordance with ยง 71.19 of this subchapter or, if applicable, with part 85 of this subchapter.


(h) *Captive cervids.* Captive cervids moved interstate must be accompanied by documentation as required by part 77 of this subchapter.



---

[N] [89 FR 39565, May 9, 2024]

 


