# § 27.1587   Performance information.

(a) The Rotorcraft Flight Manual must contain the following information, determined in accordance with §§ 27.49 through 27.87 and 27.143(c) and (d):


(1) Enough information to determine the limiting height-velocity envelope.




(2) Information relative to—


(i) The steady rates of climb and descent, in-ground effect and out-of-ground effect hovering ceilings, together with the corresponding airspeeds and other pertinent information including the calculated effects of altitude and temperatures;


(ii) The maximum weight for each altitude and temperature condition at which the rotorcraft can safely hover in-ground effect and out-of-ground effect in winds of not less than 17 knots from all azimuths. These data must be clearly referenced to the appropriate hover charts. In addition, if there are other combinations of weight, altitude and temperature for which performance information is provided and at which the rotorcraft cannot land and take off safely with the maximum wind value, those portions of the operating envelope and the appropriate safe wind conditions must be stated in the Rotorcraft Flight Manual; 


(iii) For reciprocating engine-powered rotorcraft, the maximum atmospheric temperature at which compliance with the cooling provisions of §§ 27.1041 through 27.1045 is shown; and 


(iv) Glide distance as a function of altitude when autorotating at the speeds and conditions for minimum rate of descent and best glide as determined in § 27.71.


(b) The Rotorcraft Flight Manual must contain—


(1) In its performance information section any pertinent information concerning the takeoff weights and altitudes used in compliance with § 27.51; and


(2) The horizontal takeoff distance determined in accordance with § 27.65(a)(2)(i).



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2326, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-21, 49 FR 44435, Nov. 6, 1984; Amdt. 27-44, 73 FR 11000, Feb. 29, 2008; 73 FR 33876, June 16, 2008; Amdt. 27-51, 88 FR 8739, Feb. 10, 2023] 




