# § 223.5   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration or the Administrator's delegate.


*Caboose* means a car in a freight train intended to provide transportation for crewmembers.


*Certified glazing* means a glazing material that has been certified by the manufacturer as having met the testing requirements set forth in appendix A of this part and that has been installed in such a manner that it will perform its intended function.


*Designated service* means exclusive operation of a locomotive under the following conditions:


(1) The locomotive is not used as an independent unit or the controlling unit is a consist of locomotives except when moving for the purpose of servicing or repair within a single yard area;


(2) The locomotive is not occupied by operating or deadhead crews outside a single yard area; and


(3) The locomotive is stenciled “Designated Service—DO NOT OCCUPY”.


*Emergency window* means the segment of a side-facing glazing panel that has been designed to permit rapid and easy removal from inside a passenger car in an emergency situation.


*End facing glazing location* means any exterior location where a line perpendicular to the plane of the glazing material makes a horizontal angle of 50 degrees or less with the centerline of the locomotive, caboose, or passenger car, including a dome or observation car, except for: The coupled ends of multiple-unit (MU) locomotives or other equipment that is semi-permanently connected to each other in a train consist; and end doors of passenger cars at locations other than the cab end of a cab car or MU locomotive. Any location which, due to curvature of the glazing material, can meet the criteria for either an end facing location or a side facing location shall be considered an end facing location.


*FRA* means the Federal Railroad Administration.


*Incidental freight service* means the occasional and irregular use of a locomotive in freight service that is more than 50 years old and used primarily for excursion, educational, recreational, or private transportation purposes.


*Locomotive* means a self-propelled unit of equipment designed primarily for moving other equipment. It does not include self-propelled passenger cars.


*Locomotive cab* means that portion of the superstructure designed to be occupied by the crew while operating the locomotive.


*Passenger car* means a unit of rail rolling equipment intended to provide transportation for members of the general public and includes self-propelled cars designed to carry baggage, mail, express or passengers. This term includes a passenger coach, cab car, and an MU locomotive.


*Person* includes all categories of entities covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including, but not limited to, a railroad; any manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any passenger, any trespasser or nontrespasser; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor.


*Railroad* means:


(1) Any form of non-highway ground transportation that runs on rails or electromagnetic guideways, including


(i) Commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation on January 1, 1979, and


(ii) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether those systems use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads, but does not include rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation and


(2) A person that provides railroad transportation, whether directly or by contracting out operation of the railroad to another person.


*Rebuilt locomotive, caboose or passenger car* means a locomotive, caboose or passenger car that has undergone overhaul which has been identified by the railroad as a capital expense under Surface Transportation Board accounting standards.


*Side facing glazing location* means any location where a line perpendicular to any plane of the glazing material makes an angle of more than 50 degrees with the centerline of the locomotive, caboose or passenger car. A side facing glazing location also means a location at the coupled ends of MU locomotives or other equipment that is semi-permanently connected to each other in a train consist, and a location at end doors other than at the cab end of a cab car or MU locomotive.


*Windshield* means the combination of individual units of glazing material of the locomotive, passenger car, or caboose that are positioned in an end facing glazing location.


*Yard* is a system of auxiliary tracks used exclusively for the classification of passenger or freight cars according to commodity or destination; assembling of cars for train movement; storage of cars; or repair of equipment.


*Yard caboose* means a caboose that is used exclusively in a single yard area.


*Yard locomotive* means a locomotive that is operated only to perform switching functions within a single yard area.



---

[N] [63 FR 24675, May 4, 1998; 63 FR 36376, July 6, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 6399, Feb. 1, 2008; 81 FR 6789, Feb. 9, 2016]




