# § 721.11422   Alkanediamine, dialkyl-, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) ether with substituted alkyl-substituted alkanediol, reaction products with alkyl-alkanamine (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkanediamine, dialkyl-, polymer with .alpha.-hydro-.omega.-[(1-oxo-2-propen-1-yl)oxy]poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl) ether with substituted alkyl-substituted alkanediol, reaction products with alkyl-alkanamine (PMN P-17-393) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4) through (6) and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general, and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA Order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.039 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA Order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1) through (3) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Skin irritation; respiratory complications; eye irritation; skin sensitization. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(2), when using this substance: Avoid skin contact; avoid breathing substance; avoid ingestion; use skin protection; use respiratory protection or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.039 mg/m
3. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(3), this substance may be: Toxic to aquatic organisms; hazardous to the aquatic environment. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance with an average molecular weight less than 1,000 daltons and with more than 10% less than 500 daltons.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), (f) through (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46150, Aug. 18, 2021]






