# § 658.32   What additional criteria does the Secretary apply to institutional applications?

In addition to the criteria referred to in § 658.31, the Secretary evaluates an application submitted by an institution of higher education or a consortium of such institutions on the basis of the criteria in this section.


(a) *Commitment to international studies.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the applicant's commitment to the international studies program.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The institution's current strength as measured by the number of international studies courses offered;


(ii) The extent to which planning for the implementation of the proposed program has involved the applicant's faculty, as well as administrators;


(iii) The institutional commitment to the establishment, operation, and continuation of the program as demonstrated by optimal use of available personnel and other resources; and


(iv) The institutional commitment to the program as demonstrated by the use of institutional funds in support of the program's objectives.


(b) *Elements of the proposed international studies program.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the nature of the applicant's proposed international studies program.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The extent to which the proposed activities will contribute to the implementation of a program in international studies and foreign languages at the applicant institution;


(ii) The interdisciplinary aspects of the program;


(iii) The number of new and revised courses with an international perspective that will be added to the institution's programs; and


(iv) The applicant's plans to improve or expand language instruction.


(c) *Need for and prospective results of the proposed program.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the need for and the prospective results of the applicant's proposed program.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The extent to which the proposed activities are needed at the applicant institution;


(ii) The extent to which the proposed use of Federal funds will result in the implementation of a program in international studies and foreign languages at the applicant institution;


(iii) The likelihood that the activities initiated with Federal funds will be continued after Federal assistance is terminated; and


(iv) The adequacy of the provisions for sharing the materials and results of the program with other institutions of higher education.



---

[N] [47 FR 14122, Apr. 1, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 28422, July 29, 1987; 70 FR 13375, Mar. 21, 2005; 74 FR 35074, July 17, 2009]




