# § 48.4081-5   Taxable fuel; notification certificate of taxable fuel registrant.

(a) *Overview.* This section sets forth requirements for the notification certificate under §§ 48.4081-2(c)(2)(ii), 48.4081-3(c)(2)(iii) and (iv), 48.4081-3(d)(2)(iii), 48.4081-3(e)(2)(iii), 48.4081-3(f)(2)(ii), and 48.4081-4(c) to notify another person of the taxable fuel registrant's registration status.


(b) *Certificate*—(1) *In general.* The certificate to be provided by a taxable fuel registrant consists of a statement that is signed under penalties of perjury by a person with authority to bind the registrant, is in substantially the same form as the model provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and contains all information necessary to complete such model. A new certificate must be given if any information in the most recently provided certificate changes. The certificate may be included as part of any business records normally used to document a sale. The certificate expires on the earlier of the following dates:


(i) The date the registrant provides a new certificate.


(ii) The date the recipient of the certificate is notified by either the Internal Revenue Service or the registrant that the registrant's registration has been revoked or suspended.


(2) *Model certificate.*

(3) *Use of Form 637 or letter of registration as a notification certificate prohibited.* A copy of the certificate of registry (Form 637) or letter of registration issued to a registrant by the Internal Revenue Service is not a notification certificate described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(c) *Effective date.* This section is effective January 1, 1994.



---

[N] [T.D. 8421, 57 FR 32424, July 22, 1992; 57 FR 39422, Aug. 31, 1992, as amended by T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10457, Mar. 14, 1996; T.D. 9145, 69 FR 45588, July 30, 2004; T.D. 9346, 72 FR 41224, July 27, 2007]




