# ยง 610.102   Definitions.

In this subpart: 


*Administrative workweek* means any period of 7 consecutive 24-hour periods designated in advance by the head of the agency under section 6101 of title 5, United States Code. 


*Agency* means an Executive agency and a military department as defined by sections 105 and 102 of title 5, United States Code. 


*Basic workweek,* for full-time employees, means the 40-hour workweek established in accordance with ยง 610.111. 


*Employee* means an employee of an agency to whom this subpart applies. 


*Head of agency* means the head of an agency or an official who has been delegated the authority to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned. 


*Regularly scheduled administrative workweek,* for a full-time employee, means the period within an administrative workweek, established in accordance with ยง 610.111, within which the employee is regularly scheduled to work. For a part-time employee, it means the officially prescribed days and hours within an administrative workweek during which the employee is regularly scheduled to work.


*Regularly scheduled* work means work that is scheduled in advance of an administrative workweek under an agency's procedures for establishing workweeks in accordance with ยง 610.111.


*Tour of duty* means the hours of a day (a daily tour of duty) and the days of an administrative workweek (a weekly tour of duty) that constitute an employee's regularly scheduled administrative workweek.



---

[N] [33 FR 12474, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 48 FR 3934, Jan. 28, 1983; 60 FR 67287, Dec. 29, 1995; 64 FR 69182, Dec. 10, 1999]




