# ยง 35.36   Enforcement.

(a) DOL may enforce the Act and this part through:


(1) Termination of, or refusal to grant or continue, a recipient's Federal financial assistance from DOL under the program or activity in which the recipient has violated the Act or this part. Such enforcement action may be taken only after a recipient has had an opportunity for a hearing on the record before an administrative law judge.


(2) Any other means authorized by law, including, but not limited to:


(i) Referral to the Department of Justice for proceedings to enforce any rights of the United States or obligation of the recipient created by the Act or this part; or


(ii) Use of any requirement of, or referral to, any Federal, State, or local government agency that will have the effect of correcting a violation of the Act or this part.


(b) Any termination or refusal under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be limited to the particular recipient and to the particular program or activity found to be in violation of the Act or this part. A finding with respect to a program or activity that does not receive Federal financial assistance from DOL will not form any part of the basis for termination or refusal.


(c) No action may be taken under paragraph (a) of this section until:


(1) DOL has advised the recipient of its failure to comply with the Act or with this part and has determined that voluntary compliance cannot be obtained; and 


(2) Thirty days have elapsed since DOL sent a written report of the circumstances and grounds of the action to the committees of Congress having jurisdiction over the program or activity involved.


(d) *Deferral.* DOL may defer granting new Federal financial assistance to a recipient when termination proceedings under paragraph (a)(1) of this section are initiated.


(1) New Federal financial assistance from DOL includes all assistance for which DOL requires an application or approval, including renewal or continuation of existing activities, or authorization of new activities, during the deferral period. New Federal financial assistance from DOL does not include increases in funding as a result of changed computation of formula awards or assistance approved prior to the initiation of a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(2) DOL may not defer a grant until the recipient has received notice of an opportunity for a hearing under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A deferral may not continue for more than 60 days unless a hearing has begun within the 60-day period or the recipient and DOL have mutually agreed to extend the time for beginning the hearing. If the hearing does not result in a finding against the recipient, the deferral may not continue for more than 30 days after the close of the hearing.




