# ยง 35.17   Withdrawals and amendments of rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filings.

(a) *Withdrawals of rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filings prior to Commission action.* (1) A public utility may withdraw in its entirety a rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filing that has not become effective and upon which no Commission or delegated order has been issued by filing a withdrawal motion with the Commission. Upon the filing of such motion, the proposed rate schedule, tariff or service agreement sections will not become effective under section 205(d) of the Federal Power Act in the absence of Commission action making the rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filing effective.


(2) The withdrawal motion will become effective, and the rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filing will be deemed withdrawn, at the end of 15 days from the date of filing of the withdrawal motion, if no answer in opposition to the withdrawal motion is filed within that period and if no order disallowing the withdrawal is issued within that period. If an answer in opposition is filed within the 15 day period, the withdrawal is not effective until an order accepting the withdrawal is issued.


(b) *Amendments or modifications to rate schedule, tariff or service agreement sections prior to Commission action on the filing.* A public utility may file to amend or modify, and may file a settlement that would amend or modify, a rate schedule, tariff or service agreement section contained in a rate schedule, tariff or service agreement filing that has not become effective and upon which no Commission or delegated order has yet been issued. Such filing will toll the notice period in section 205(d) of the Federal Power Act for the original filing, and establish a new date on which the entire filing will become effective, in the absence of Commission action, no earlier than 61 days from the date of the filing of the amendment or modification.


(c) *Withdrawal of suspended rate schedules, tariffs, or service agreements, or parts thereof.* Where a rate schedule, tariff, or service agreement, or part thereof has been suspended by the Commission, it may be withdrawn during the period of suspension only by special permission of the Commission granted upon application therefor and for good cause shown. If permitted to be withdrawn, any such rate schedule, tariff, or service agreement may be refiled with the Commission within a one-year period thereafter only with special permission of the Commission for good cause shown.


(d) *Changes in suspended rate schedules, tariffs, or service agreements, or parts thereof.* A public utility may not, within the period of suspension, file any change in a rate schedule, tariff, or service agreement, or part thereof, which has been suspended by order of the Commission except by special permission of the Commission granted upon application therefor and for good cause shown.


(e) *Changes in rate schedules or tariffs or parts thereof continued in effect and which were proposed to be changed by the suspended filing.* A public utility may not, within the period of suspension, file any change in a rate schedule or tariff or part thereof continued in effect by operation of an order of suspension and which was proposed to be changed by the suspended filing, except by special permission of the Commission granted upon application therefor and for good cause shown. 



---

[N] [Order 271, 28 FR 10573, Oct. 2, 1963, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57533, Oct. 3, 2008; 74 FR 55770, Oct. 29, 2009]




