# § 13.210   Filing of documents.

(a) *General rule.* Unless provided otherwise in this subpart, all documents in proceedings under this subpart must be tendered for filing with the FAA Hearing Docket.


(b) *Methods of filing.* Filing must be by email, personal delivery, mail, or fax.


(c) *Address for filing.* A person filing a document with the FAA Hearing Docket must use the address identified for the method of filing as follows:


(1) *If delivery is in person, or by expedited or overnight express courier service.* Federal Aviation Administration, 600 Independence Avenue SW, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100, Washington, DC 20597; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70.


(2) *If delivery is via U.S. mail, or U.S. certified or registered mail.* Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20591; Attention: FAA Hearing Docket, AGC-70, Wilbur Wright Building—Suite 2W100.


(3) *If delivery is via email or fax.* The email address and fax number for the FAA Hearing Docket, made available on the FAA Office of Adjudication website.


(d) *Date of filing.* If a document is filed by fax or email, the date of filing is the date the email or fax is sent. If a document is filed by personal delivery, the date of filing is the date that personal delivery is accomplished. If a document is filed by mail, the date of filing is the date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or the mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.


(e) *Form.* Each document must be typewritten or legibly handwritten.


(f) *Contents.* Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each document must contain a short, plain statement of the facts on which the person's case rests and a brief statement of the action requested.


(g) *Requirement to file an original document and number of copies.* A party must file an original document and one copy when filing by personal delivery or by mail. Only one copy must be filed if filing is accomplished by email or fax.


(h) *Filing by email.* A document that is filed by email must be attached as a PDF file to an email. The document must be signed in accordance with § 13.207. The email message does not constitute a submission, but serves only to deliver the attached PDF file to the FAA Hearing Docket.




