# ยง 21.180   Case status system.

(a) *General.* Each veteran's case will be assigned to a specific case status from the point of initial contact until all appropriate steps in the rehabilitation process have been completed. The case status system will:


(1) Assist Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) staff to fulfill its case management responsibility to provide authorized assistance to enable the veteran to successfully pursue his or her program; and


(2) Assure program management and accountability.


(b) *Responsibility for change of case status.* The case manager is responsible for assigning a case to the appropriate case status at each point in the rehabilitation process.


(c) *Case manager.* The VR&E Officer or his or her designee will assign a case manager when the veteran's case is placed in *evaluation and planning* status. The VR&E Officer or his or her designee may assign case management responsibility for development and implementation of a rehabilitation plan authorized under Chapter 31 to a Counseling Psychologist (CP), Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (VRC) or vocational rehabilitation specialist in the VR&E Division. The case manager assigned will, unless replaced by the VR&E Officer, continue to be responsible for case management throughout the course of the veteran's rehabilitation program. When securing medical care, treatment, and other related services, the VR&E case manager will coordinate with Veterans Health Administration (VHA) staff members who have case management responsibility for the veteran.


(d) *Informing the veteran.* The veteran will be informed in writing of changes in case status by VA which affect his or her receipt of benefits and services under Chapter 31. The letter to the veteran will include the reason for the change of case status, and other information required under provisions of ยง 21.420.


(e) *Normal progression for eligible veterans.* The cases of veterans who are eligible for and entitled to services under Chapter 31 for whom individualized plans have been prepared will generally undergo the following changes of status:


(1) *Individualized written rehabilitation plan.* A veteran with an IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) will generally move sequentially from *applicant* status through *evaluation and planning* status, *rehabilitation to the point of employability* status, *employment services* status, and *rehabilitated* status.


(2) *Individualized extended evaluation plan.* A veteran with an IEEP (Individualized Extended Evaluation Plan) will generally move from *applicant* status through *evaluation and planning* status to *extended evaluation* status. Once in *extended evaluation* status there will generally be a finding which leads to development of an IWRP (paragraph (e)(1) of this section), or IILP (Individualized Independent Living Plan) (paragraph (e)(3) of this section).


(3) *Individualized independent living plan.* A veteran with an IILP (Individualized Independent Living Plan) will generally move from *applicant* status through *evaluation and planning, extended evaluation, independent living,* and *rehabilitated status.*

(4) *Individualized employment assistance plan.* (i) A veteran with an IEAP (Individualized Employment Assistance Plan) which is a part of an IWRP will move through the case statuses described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, or in some cases through the steps in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(ii) A veteran for whom only employment services are provided will generally move from *applicant* through *evaluation and planning, employment services* to *rehabilitated* status.


(f) *Normal progression for ineligible veterans.* A veteran found ineligible for services under Chapter 31 will generally move from *applicant* to *evaluation and planning* status, to *ineligible* status.


(g) *Changes of status.* The case manager may change the case status when: 


(1) Conditions for change specified in the status are met;


(2) The change is not specifically precluded by the status to which change is being considered; and 


(3) The change is consistent with provisions of other applicable regulations.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 34987, Aug. 23, 1989; 62 FR 17708, Apr. 11, 1997; 81 FR 26132, May 2, 2016; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




