# ยง 130.360   Selection of the SBDC Lead Center Director.

(a) *Selection.* Selection of an SBDC Lead Center Director must be accomplished in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the notice of funding opportunity and cooperative agreement.


(b) *Vacancy.* (1) The recipient organization must notify the appropriate SBA District Director (DD), Regional Administrator, and AA/SBDC within ten business days of either:


(i) Being notified by the incumbent SBDC Lead Center Director of their intent to vacate the position; or


(ii) Its formal decision to remove the incumbent SBDC Lead Center Director.


(2) If the position will be vacated prior to the selection of a replacement, the recipient organization must appoint an interim SBDC Lead Center Director, prior to the vacancy, who will serve in that capacity until a permanent SBDC Lead Center Director is in position.


(3) The recipient organization must inform the SBA District Director, Regional Administrator, and the AA/SBDC within ten business days of the appointment of the interim SBDC Lead Center Director and provide that individual's contact information.


(4) An interim Lead Center Director must allocate at least 75 percent of their time and effort to the SBDC Program until a permanent SBDC Lead Center Director is in position. This must be documented in accordance with the policies of the recipient organization. An interim SBDC Lead Center Director must be knowledgeable about sponsored programs. The appointment period for such interim SBDC Lead Center Director will not exceed 120 days. Should more time be needed the recipient organization must obtain prior approval from the AA/SBDC for an extension.



---

[N] [88 FR 76644, Nov. 7, 2023]










