# ยง 19.12   Notifications to beneficiaries and applicants.

(a) Organizations providing social services to beneficiaries under a program supported by direct Federal financial assistance from DHS must give written notice to beneficiaries and prospective beneficiaries of certain protections. Such notice must be given in a manner and form prescribed by DHS's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, including by incorporating the notice into materials that are otherwise provided to beneficiaries. This written notice shall include language substantially similar to that in appendix C to this part.


(b) The written notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must be given to prospective beneficiaries prior to the time the prospective beneficiary enrolls in the program or receives services from the program. When the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such written notice in advance of the actual service, organizations must advise beneficiaries of their protections at the earliest available opportunity.


(c) DHS may determine that the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must inform each beneficiary or prospective beneficiary of the option to seek information from DHS, or a State agency or other entity administering the program, as to whether there are any other federally funded organizations in the area that provide the services available under the applicable program.


(d) Notices or announcements of award opportunities and notices of award or contracts shall include language substantially similar to that in appendices A and B, respectively, to this part.



---

[N] [89 FR 15706, Mar. 4, 2024]






