# § 25.2503-6   Exclusion for certain qualified transfer for tuition or medical expenses.

(a) *In general.* Section 2503(e) provides that any qualified transfer after December 31, 1981, shall not be treated as a transfer of property by gift for purposes of Chapter 12 of Subtitle B of the Code. Thus, a qualified transfer on behalf of any individual is excluded in determining the total amount of gifts in calendar year 1982 and subsequent years. This exclusion is available in addition to the $10,000 annual gift tax exclusion. Furthermore, an exclusion for a qualified transfer is permitted without regard to the relationship between the donor and the donee. A contribution to an ABLE account established under section 529A is not a qualified transfer.


(b) *Qualified transfers*—(1) *Definition.* For purposes of this paragraph, the term “qualified transfer” means any amount paid on behalf of an individual—


(i) As tuition to a qualifying educational organization for the education or training of that individual, or


(ii) To any person who provides medical care with respect to that individual as payment for the qualifying medical expenses arising from such medical care.


(2) *Tuition expenses.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a qualifying educational organization is one which normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly carried on. See section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) and the regulations thereunder. The unlimited exclusion is permitted for tuition expenses of full-time or part-time students paid directly to the qualifying educational organization providing the education. No unlimited exclusion is permitted for amounts paid for books, supplies, dormitory fees, board, or other similar expenses which do not constitute direct tuition costs.


(3) *Medical expenses.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, qualifying medical expenses are limited to those expenses defined in section 213(d) (section 213(e) prior to January 1, 1984) and include expenses incurred for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease, or for the purpose of affecting any structure or function of the body or for transportation primarily for and essential to medical care. In addition, the unlimited exclusion from the gift tax includes amounts paid for medical insurance on behalf of any individual. The unlimited exclusion from the gift tax does not apply to amounts paid for medical care that are reimbursed by the donee's insurance. Thus, if payment for a medical expense is reimbursed by the donee's insurance company, the donor's payment for that expense, to the extent of the reimbursed amount, is not eligible for the unlimited exclusion from the gift tax and the gift is treated as having been made on the date the reimbursement is received by the donee.


(c) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples.



---

[N] [T.D. 7978, 49 FR 38541, Oct. 1, 1984; 49 FR 39843, Oct. 11, 1984, as amended by T.D. 9923, 85 FR 74047, Nov. 19, 2020]




