# § 62.7605   Identification of plan—delegation of authority.

(a) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP), submitted May 13, 2005, requesting delegation of authority from EPA to implement and enforce the following three Federal plans: Municipal Solid Waste Landfills (MSW Landfills), Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators (HMIWI) and Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units (Small MWCs). The Federal plans will be administered by both NJDEP and EPA, pursuant to the following: “Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste Landfills That Commenced Construction Prior to May 30, 1991 and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since May 30, 1991,” 40 CFR part 62, subpart GGG; “Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed on or Before June 20, 1996,” 40 CFR part 62, subpart HHH; and “Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999,” 40 CFR part 62, subpart JJJ.


(b) Identification of sources: The three Federal plans apply to existing facilities as follows: MSW Landfills which commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification before May 30, 1991 and a MSW Landfill that has accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987 or the landfill has additional capacity for future waste deposition; HMIWIs that combust any amount of hospital, medical or infectious waste and that commenced construction on or before June 20, 1996; and Small MWCs with a capacity to combust at least 35 tons per day of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel but no more than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel and if the Small MWC commenced construction on or before August 30, 1999.


(c) On April 24, 2006, EPA prepared and signed Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) between EPA and NJDEP that define the policies, responsibilities and procedures pursuant to the three Federal plans identified in (a) above by which the Federal plans will be administered by both NJDEP and EPA. On May 15, 2006, Lisa P. Jackson, NJDEP Commissioner, signed the MOAs, therefore agreeing to the terms and conditions of the MOAs and accepting responsibility to enforce and implement the policies, responsibilities, and procedures for MSW Landfills, HMIWIs and Small MWCs.


(d) The delegation became fully effective on May 15, 2006, the date the MOAs were signed by the NJDEP Commissioner.


(e) Letter from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP), submitted May 8, 2023, requested delegation of authority from EPA to implement and enforce the Federal Plan Requirements for existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills. The Federal plan will be administered by both the NJDEP and the EPA, pursuant to “Federal Plan Requirements for Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) Landfills That Commenced Construction On or Before July 17, 2014, and Have Not Been Modified or Reconstructed Since July 17, 2014” 40 CFR 62.16710-62.16730.


(f) Identification of sources. The Existing MSW Landfills Federal Plan applies to each municipal solid waste landfill that meets the following criteria:


(1) Commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before July 17, 2014.


(2) Accepted waste at any time since November 8, 1987, or has additional capacity for future waste deposition.


(g) On November 21, 2023, the NJDEP Assistant Commissioner signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) concerning the Delegation of Authority of the Federal Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. On November 28, 2023, the EPA Region 2 Regional Administrator signed the MoA, therefore agreeing to the terms and conditions of the MoA and accepting responsibility to enforce and implement the policies, responsibilities, and procedures for existing MSW landfills.


(h) The delegation became fully effective on November 28, 2023, the date the MoA was signed by the EPA Region 2 Regional Administrator.



---

[N] [72 FR 1670, Jan. 16, 2007, as amended at 89 FR 31649, Apr. 25, 2024]




