# § 195.260   Valves: Location.

A valve must be installed at each of the following locations:


(a) On the suction end and the discharge end of a pump station in a manner that permits isolation of the pump station equipment in the event of an emergency.


(b) On each pipeline entering or leaving a breakout storage tank area in a manner that permits isolation of the tank from other facilities.


(c) On each pipeline at locations along the pipeline system that will minimize or prevent safety risks, property damage, or environmental harm from accidental hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide discharges, as appropriate for onshore areas, offshore areas, and high-consequence areas (HCA). For newly constructed or entirely replaced onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments, as that term is defined at § 195.2, that are installed after April 10, 2023, valve spacing must not exceed 15 miles for pipeline segments that could affect or are in HCAs, as defined in § 195.450, and 20 miles for pipeline segments that could not affect HCAs. Valves on pipeline segments that are located in HCAs or which could affect HCAs must be installed at locations as determined by the operator's process for identifying preventive and mitigative measures established pursuant to § 195.452(i) and by using the selection process in section I.B of appendix C of part 195, but with a maximum distance that does not exceed 7
1/2 miles from the endpoints of the HCA segment or the segment that could affect an HCA. An operator may request an exemption from the compliance deadline requirements of this section for valve installation at the specified valve spacing if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that those compliance deadline requirements would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible.


(d) On each lateral takeoff from a pipeline in a manner that permits shutting off the lateral without interrupting flow in the pipeline.


(e) On each side of one or more adjacent water crossings that are more than 100 feet (30 meters) wide from high water mark to high water mark, as follows:


(1) Valves must be installed at locations outside of the 100-year flood plain or be equipped with actuators or other control equipment that is installed so as not to be impacted by flood conditions; and


(2) The maximum spacing interval between valves that protect multiple adjacent water crossings cannot exceed 1 mile in length.


(f) On each side of a reservoir holding water for human consumption.


(g) On each highly volatile liquid (HVL) pipeline that is located in a high-population area or other populated area, as defined in § 195.450, and that is constructed, or where 2 or more miles of pipe have been replaced within any 5 contiguous miles within any 24-month period, after April 10, 2023, with a maximum valve spacing of 7
1/2 miles. The maximum valve spacing intervals may be increased by 1.25 times the distance up to a 9 
3/8-mile spacing, provided the operator:


(1) Submits for PHMSA review a notification pursuant to § 195.18 requesting alternative spacing because installation of a valve at a particular location between a 7-mile to a 7
1/2-mile spacing would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible, and that an alternative spacing would not adversely impact safety; and


(2) Keeps the records necessary to support that determination for the useful life of the pipeline.


(h) An operator may submit for PHMSA review, in accordance with § 195.18, a notification requesting site-specific exemption from the valve installation requirements or valve spacing requirements of paragraph (c), (e), or (f) of this section and demonstrating such exemption would not adversely affect safety. An operator may also submit for PHMSA review, in accordance with § 195.18, a notification requesting an extension of the compliance deadline requirements for valve installation and spacing of this section because those compliance deadline requirements would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible for a particular new construction or pipeline replacement project.


(i) An operator of a gathering line must only comply with the requirements of 49 CFR 195.260 effective as of October 4, 2022, and need not comply with the other requirements of this section.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-105, 87 FR 20987, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 195-106, 88 FR 50062, Aug. 1, 2023]








