# § 234.26   Project requirements.

No mortgage shall be eligible for insurance unless the following requirements are met: 


(a) *Location of family unit.* The family unit shall be located in a project that the Commissioner determines to be acceptable. 


(b) *Plan of condominium ownership.* The project in which the unit is located shall have been committed to a plan of condominium ownership by a deed, or other recorded instrument, that is acceptable to the Commissioner. In the case of condominium documents in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commissioner will accept documents presented for inscription (recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of the Property Registry so long as the mortgagor obtains a title insurance policy that reflects the condominium regime. 


(c) *Releases.* The family unit shall have been released from any mortgage covering the project or any part of the project. 


(d) *Certificate by mortgagee.* The mortgagee shall certify that: 


(1) The deed of the family unit and the deed or other recorded instrument committing the project to a plan of condominium ownership must comply with legal requirements of the jurisdiction. In the case of condominium documents in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Department will accept documents presented for inscription (recordation) to the Commonwealth Office of Property Registry for certification purposes so long as the mortgagor obtains a title insurance policy that reflects the condominium regime. 


(2) The mortgagor has good marketable title to the family unit, subject only to a mortgage that is a valid first lien on the family unit. 


(3) The family unit is assessed and subject to assessment for taxes pertaining only to that unit. 


(e) *Conditions and provisions.* (1) The Commissioner may require such conditions and provisions as the Commissioner determines are necessary for the protection of consumers and the public interest. 


(2) An application for mortgage insurance of a unit will not be approved if approval would result in less than 80 percent of the FHA-insured mortgages covering units in the project being occupied by mortgagors or co-mortgagors as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18 of this chapter). 


(3) In addition to the other requirements of this section, in order for a project to be acceptable to the Secretary, at least 51 percent of all family units (including units not covered by FHA-insured mortgages) must be occupied by the owners as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18 of this chapter), or must have been sold to owners who intend to meet this occupancy requirement. 


(f) *Limitations on conversion of rental housing to condominium use.* With respect to a family unit in any project that was converted from rental housing, no insurance will be provided under this section unless: 


(1) The conversion occurred more than one year before the application for insurance; or 


(2) The mortgagor or comortgagor was a tenant of a unit in the rental housing project converted to condominium use; or 


(3) The conversion of the property is sponsored by a bona fide tenants' organization representing a majority of the households in the project. 


(g) *Projects covered by an insured or Secretary-held mortgage.* In addition to the requirements contained in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, projects which are covered by an FHA-insured project mortgage, or by a mortgage held by the Secretary, must be in compliance with a conversion plan approved by the Commissioner. The conversion plan shall provide for: 


(1) The termination by payment in full of the mortgage or by voluntary termination of the insurance contract covering any HUD/FHA-insured or Secretary-held mortgage on the project, unless the Commissioner determines that the Commissioner's interests, and those of the individuals purchasing the family units, are best served by not requiring the termination of the insurance or payment in full of the mortgage. 


(2) On release of a family unit from the project mortgage, payment shall be made on the outstanding balance of the project mortgage in an amount equal to the share of the balance determined by HUD to be attributable to the family unit. 


(3) The project mortgagee shall certify that, notwithstanding any provisions of the mortgage covering prepayment, no charge is contemplated or has been collected for prepayment in full of the project mortgage. 


(h) *Projects not covered by an insured or Secretary-held mortgage.* In addition to the requirements contained in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, projects which are not covered by an insured project mortgage or by a Secretary-held mortgage and which have not been approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs for its guaranty, insurance, or direct loan programs shall meet the requirements of this paragraph. Except with the approval of the Commissioner for the purpose of constructing or converting the project in phases or stages, any special right of the declarant (as declarant and not as a unit owner) to do any or all of the following must have expired or must have been waived in a recorded instrument: 


(1) Add land or units to the condominium; 


(2) Convert common elements into additional units or limited common elements; 


(3) Withdraw land from the condominium; 


(4) Use easements through the common elements for the purpose of making improvements within the condominium or within any adjacent land; or 


(5) Convert a unit into two or more units, common elements, or into two or more units and common elements. 


(i) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section, a loan on a single unit in an unapproved condominium project (spot loan) may qualify for mortgage insurance under this part. 


(1) The project must meet the following criteria: 


(i) All units, common elements, and facilities—including those that are part of any master association—must have been completed, and the project cannot be subject to additional phasing or annexation. The project must provide for undivided ownership of common areas by unit owners; 


(ii) Control of the owners' association must have been turned over to the unit purchasers, and the unit purchasers must have been in control for at least one year; 


(iii) At least 90 percent of the total units in the project must have been conveyed to the unit purchasers, and at least 51 percent of the total units in the project must have been conveyed to purchasers who are occupying the units as their principal residences or second homes. No single entity (the same individual, investor group, partnership, or corporation) may own more than 10 percent of the total units in the project; 


(iv) The units in the project must be owned in fee simple or be an eligible leasehold interest, as described in § 234.65, and the unit owners must have sole ownership interest in, and right to the use of, the project's facilities, common elements, and limited common elements including parking, recreational facilities, etc.; 


(v) The project must be covered by hazard, flood, and liability insurance acceptable to the Commissioner; 


(vi) For projects with more than 30 units, no more than 10 percent of the total units in the project may be encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages. (If endorsement would result in more than 10 percent of the units in such a project being encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages, the condominium project must be approved under paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.) For projects with between 5 and 30 units inclusive, no more than 20 percent of the total units may be encumbered by FHA-insured mortgages. For projects with four units, only one unit may be encumbered by an FHA-insured mortgage under the spot loan procedure of this paragraph (i); and 


(vii) The assumability provisions of § 234.66 must be satisfied. 


(2) Lenders must perform an underwriting analysis and certify that a project satisfies the eligibility criteria for a spot loan in a condominium project that has not been approved by FHA. Lenders may use information from the appraiser, the owners' association, the management company, the real estate broker, and the project developer, but the lender must ensure the accuracy of the information obtained from these sources. 



---

[N] [61 FR 60161, Nov. 26, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 16689, Apr. 4, 2007]




