# § 62.10160   Identification of sources.

(a) *Identification of plan.* South Carolina's State Plan for Existing Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, as submitted on January 19, 2022. The plan includes the regulatory provisions cited in paragraph (d) of this section, which EPA incorporates by reference.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to each existing municipal solid waste landfill in the State of South Carolina that commenced construction on or before July 17, 2014, as such landfills are defined in 40 CFR 60.41f and 40 CFR part 60.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan is April 11, 2024.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* Material listed in this paragraph (d) is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All approved material is available for inspection at the EPA and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact EPA at: EPA Region 4 office, 61 Forsyth St. SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303, 404-562-9900. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from the State of South Carolina—The Legislative Council of the General Assembly, Office of the State Register, Fourth Floor, Rembert C. Dennis Building, 1000 Assembly Street, Columbia, SC 29201; phone: (803) 212-4500; email: *REG@scstatehouse.gov;* website: *https://www.scstatehouse.gov.*

(1) S.C. Code Ann. Regs. 61-62.60, Subpart Cf. South Carolina Code Annotated Regulations, Chapter 61—Department of Health and Environmental Control, 61-62—Air Pollution Control Regulations and Standards, 61-62.60—South Carolina Designated Facility Plan and New Source Performance Standards, subpart Cf—Performance Standards and Compliance Times for Existing Solid Waste Landfills, effective November 26, 2021.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [89 FR 17761, Mar. 12, 2024]








