# § 232.403   Design standards for one-way end-of-train devices.

(a) *General.* A one-way end-of-train device shall be comprised of a rear-of-train unit (rear unit) located on the last car of a train and a front-of-train unit (front unit) located in the cab of the locomotive controlling the train. 


(b) *Rear unit.* The rear unit shall be capable of determining the brake pipe pressure on the rear car and transmitting that information to the front unit for display to the locomotive engineer. The rear unit shall be— 


(1) Capable of measuring the brake pipe pressure on the rear car with an accuracy of ±3 pounds per square inch (psig) and brake pipe pressure variations of ±1 psig; 


(2) Equipped with a “bleeder valve” that permits the release of any air under pressure from the rear of train unit or the associated air hoses prior to detaching the rear unit from the brake pipe; 


(3) Designed so that an internal failure will not cause an undesired emergency brake application; 


(4) Equipped with either an air gauge or a means of visually displaying the rear unit's brake pipe pressure measurement; and 


(5) Equipped with a pressure relief safety valve to prevent explosion from a high pressure air leak inside the rear unit. 


(c) *Reporting rate.* Multiple data transmissions from the rear unit shall occur immediately after a variation in the rear car brake pipe pressure of ±2 psig and at intervals of not greater than 70 seconds when the variation in the rear car brake pipe pressure over the 70-second interval is less than ±2 psig. 


(d) *Operating environment.* The rear unit shall be designed to meet the performance requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section under the following environmental conditions: 


(1) At temperatures from −40 °C to 60 °C; 


(2) At a relative humidity of 95% noncondensing at 50 °C; 


(3) At altitudes of zero to 12,000 feet mean sea level; 


(4) During vertical and lateral vibrations of 1 to 15 Hz., with 0.5 g. peak to peak, and 15 to 500 Hz., with 5 g. peak to peak; 


(5) During the longitudinal vibrations of 1 to 15 Hz., with 3 g. peak to peak, and 15 to 500 Hz., with 5 g. peak to peak; and 


(6) During a shock of 10 g. peak for 0.01 seconds in any axis. 


(e) *Unique code.* Each rear unit shall have a unique and permanent identification code that is transmitted along with the pressure message to the front-of-train unit. A code obtained from the Association of American Railroads, 50 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036 shall be deemed to be a unique code for purposes of this section. A unique code also may be obtained from the Office of Safety Assurance and Compliance (RRS-10), Federal Railroad Administration, Washington, DC 20590. 


(f) *Front unit.* (1) The front unit shall be designed to receive data messages from the rear unit and shall be capable of displaying the rear car brake pipe pressure in increments not to exceed one pound. 


(2) The display shall be clearly visible and legible in daylight and darkness from the engineer's normal operating position. 


(3) The front device shall have a means for entry of the unique identification code of the rear unit being used. The front unit shall be designed so that it will display a message only from the rear unit with the same code as entered into the front unit. 


(4) The front unit shall be designed to meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section. It shall also be designed to meet the performance requirements in this paragraph under the following environmental conditions:


(i) At temperatures from 0 °C to 60 °C;


(ii) During a shock of 10 g. peak for 0.01 seconds in any axis.


(g) *Radio equipment.* (1) The radio transmitter in the rear unit and the radio receiver in the front unit shall comply with the applicable regulatory requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and use of a transmission format acceptable to the FCC.


(2) If power is supplied by one or more batteries only, the operating life must be a minimum of 36 hours at 0 °C.


(3) If power is supplied by a generator—an air turbine or alternative technology—a backup battery or similar energy storage device is required with a minimum of 12 hours continuous power at 0 °C in the event the generator stops functioning as intended.



---

[N] [66 FR 4193, Jan. 17, 2001, as amended at 85 FR 80574, Dec. 11, 2020] 






