# § 381.33   What are the requirements related to the use of funds provided under this part?

(a) Funds made available under this part must be used to supplement and not supplant the non-Federal funds that would otherwise be made available for the purpose for which Federal funds are provided under this part.


(b) In any State in which an eligible system is located within a State agency, that State or State agency may not use more than five percent of any allotment for the costs of administration of the eligible system supported under this part. For purposes of this paragraph, “costs of administration” include, but are not limited to, administrative salaries (including salaries for clerical and support staff), supplies, depreciation, the cost of operating and maintaining facilities, equipment, and grounds (*e.g.,* rental of office space or equipment, telephone, postage, maintenance agreements), and other similar types of costs that may be incurred by the State or State agency to administer the eligible system.


(c) Funds paid to an eligible system within a State for a fiscal year, including reallotment funds, to carry out this program that are not expended or obligated prior to the end of that fiscal year remain available to the eligible system within a State for obligation during the succeeding fiscal year in accordance with sections 19 and 509(g) of the Act.


(d) For determining when an eligible system makes an obligation for various kinds of property or services, 34 CFR 75.707 and 76.707, as appropriate, apply to this program. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is less than $5,500,000, § 75.707 applies. If the appropriation for the PAIR program is equal to or greater than $5,500,000, § 76.707 applies. An eligible system is considered a State for purposes of § 76.707.


(e) Program income:


(1) Consistent with 2 CFR 200.80 and for purposes of this part, *program income* means gross income earned by the designated agency that is directly generated by an activity supported under this part.


(2)(i) The designated agency must use program income to supplement Federal funds that support program activities that are subject to this part. See, for example 2 CFR 200.307(e)(2).


(ii) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.305(a) and consistent with 2 CFR 200.305(b)(5), and to the extent that program income funds are available, all designated agencies, regardless of whether they are a State agency, must disburse those funds (including repayments to a revolving fund), rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional funds from the Department.


(3) Any program income received during a fiscal year that is not obligated or expended prior to the beginning of the succeeding fiscal year in which the program income was received, remain available for obligation and expenditure by the grantee during that succeeding fiscal year.


