# ยง 634.31   Appeals of contract violations.

(a) *Scope.* This section prescribes the regulations dealing with contract violations. The Administrator, NRCS, reserves the right to revise or supplement any of the provisions of this section at any time if the action does not adversely affect the participant, or if the participant has been officially notified before this action is taken. 


(b) *Determination by administering agency.* Upon notification that a contract violation may have occurred, the administering agency:


(1) Determines that a violation did not occur or that the violation was of such a nature that no further action is to be taken; or


(2) Determines that a violation did occur and the participant agrees to accept a written penalty of forfeiture, refund, payment adjustment, or termination. If no agreement is reached, further action is to be taken.


(c) *Notice of possible violation.* (1) When the administering agency is notified that a contract violation may have occurred and the matter is not resolved under ยง 634.31(b)(1) it shall notify, in writing, each participant who signed the contract of the alleged violation. This notice setting forth the alleged violation may be personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail. A participant is considered to have received the notice at the time of personal receipt acknowledged in writing, at the time of delivery of a certified or registered letter, or at the time of the return of a refused certified or registered letter.


(2) The notice shall give the participant an opportunity to appear at a hearing before an appeals board. The participant's request for a hearing shall be submitted in writing, and must be received by the appeals board within 30 days after receipt of the notice. The participant shall be notified in writing by the appeals board of the time, date, and place for the hearing. The participant shall have no right to a hearing if he does not file a written request for a hearing, or if he or his representative does not appear at the appointed time, unless the appeals board, at its discretion, permits an appearance. A request for a hearing filed by a participant shall be considered to be a request by all participants who signed the contract.


(d) *Hearing.* The appeals board shall conduct an open hearing to obtain the facts about the alleged violation. The appeals board shall limit the hearing to relevant facts and evidence, and shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence. Witnesses may be sworn in at the discretion of the appeals board.


(1) The participant or his or her representative shall be given full opportunity to present oral or documentary evidence about the alleged violation. Likewise, the administering agency may submit statements and evidence. Individuals not otherwise represented at the hearing may, at the discretion of the appeals board, be permitted to give information or evidence. The appeals board, at its discretion, may permit witnesses to be cross-examined.


(2) The appeals board shall make a record of the hearing. A summary of the testimony may be made if both the participant and the appeals board agree. A transcript of the hearing shall be made if requested by either the appeals board or the participant within 10 days prior to the hearing. If a transcript is requested by the participant, the participant may be assessed the cost of a copy of the transcript.


(3) The appeals board shall, after a reasonable period of time, close the hearing if the participant or his or her representative is not present at the scheduled time. The appeals board may, at its discretion, accept information and evidence submitted by others present for the hearing.


(4) The appeals board shall furnish the administering agency and the State Conservationist, NRCS, with a written report setting forth their findings, conclusions, and recommendations. The report shall include the summary of testimony or transcript made of the hearing and any other information which would aid the administering agency in reaching a decision.


(e) *Decision by the administering agency.* The administering agency shall make a decision within 30 days on the basis of the appeals board report, recommendations of soil conservation district board, if any, and any other information available, including if applicable, the amount of the forfeiture, refund, or payment adjustment. The decision shall state whether the violation is of such a nature as to warrant termination of the contract. The administering agency shall notify, in writing, each participant who signed the contract of its decision. The administering agency may authorize or require the reopening of any hearing before the appeals board for any reason at any time before their decision. The administering agency's decision shall be final.


(1) If the decision provides for termination of the contract, it shall state that the contract is terminated and that all rights to further cost-share payments under the contract are forfeited and that all cost-share payments received under the contract shall be refunded with interest. The decision is to state the amount of refund and method of payment.


(2) If the decision does not provide for termination of the contract, the participant may be required to make a refund of cost-share payments or to accept payment adjustments. The decision shall state the amount and justification for refunds of cost-share payments or payment adjustments. 




