# § 542.9   What are the minimum internal control standards for card games?

(a) *Computer applications.* For any computer applications utilized, alternate documentation and/or procedures that provide at least the level of control described by the standards in this section, as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, will be acceptable. 


(b) *Standards for drop and count.* The procedures for the collection of the card game drop and the count thereof shall comply with § 542.21, § 542.31, or § 542.41 (as applicable). 


(c) *Standards for supervision.* (1) Supervision shall be provided at all times the card room is in operation by personnel with authority equal to or greater than those being supervised. 


(2) Exchanges between table banks and the main card room bank (or cage, if a main card room bank is not used) in excess of $100.00 shall be authorized by a supervisor. All exchanges shall be evidenced by the use of a lammer unless the exchange of chips, tokens, and/or cash takes place at the table. 


(3) Exchanges from the main card room bank (or cage, if a main card room bank is not used) to the table banks shall be verified by the card room dealer and the runner. 


(4) If applicable, transfers between the main card room bank and the cage shall be properly authorized and documented. 


(5) A rake collected or ante placed shall be done in accordance with the posted rules. 


(d) *Standards for playing cards.* (1) Playing cards shall be maintained in a secure location to prevent unauthorized access and to reduce the possibility of tampering. 


(2) Used cards shall be maintained in a secure location until marked, scored, or destroyed, in a manner approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, to prevent unauthorized access and reduce the possibility of tampering. 


(3) The Tribal gaming regulatory authority, or the gaming operation as approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority, shall establish and the gaming operation shall comply with a reasonable time period, which shall not exceed seven (7) days, within which to mark, cancel, or destroy cards from play. 


(i) This standard shall not apply where playing cards are retained for an investigation. 


(ii) [Reserved] 


(4) A card control log shall be maintained that documents when cards and dice are received on site, distributed to and returned from tables and removed from play by the gaming operation. 


(e) *Plastic cards.* Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, if a gaming operation uses plastic cards (not plastic-coated cards), the cards may be used for up to three (3) months if the plastic cards are routinely inspected, and washed or cleaned in a manner and time frame approved by the Tribal gaming regulatory authority. 


(f) *Standards for shills.* (1) Issuance of shill funds shall have the written approval of the supervisor. 


(2) Shill returns shall be recorded and verified on the shill sign-out form. 


(3) The replenishment of shill funds shall be documented.


(g) *Standards for reconciliation of card room bank.* (1) The amount of the main card room bank shall be counted, recorded, and reconciled on at least a per shift basis. 


(2) At least once per shift, the table banks that were opened during that shift shall be counted, recorded, and reconciled by a dealer or other person, and a supervisor, and shall be attested to by their signatures on the check-out form. 


(h) *Standards for promotional progressive pots and pools.* (1) All funds contributed by players into the pools shall be returned when won in accordance with the posted rules with no commission or administrative fee withheld. 


(2) Rules governing promotional pools shall be conspicuously posted and designate: 


(i) The amount of funds to be contributed from each pot; 


(ii) What type of hand it takes to win the pool (e.g., what constitutes a “bad beat”); 


(iii) How the promotional funds will be paid out; 


(iv) How/when the contributed funds are added to the jackpots; and 


(v) Amount/percentage of funds allocated to primary and secondary jackpots, if applicable. 


(3) Promotional pool contributions shall not be placed in or near the rake circle, in the drop box, or commingled with gaming revenue from card games or any other gambling game. 


(4) The amount of the jackpot shall be conspicuously displayed in the card room. 


(5) At least once a day, the posted pool amount shall be updated to reflect the current pool amount. 


(6) At least once a day, increases to the posted pool amount shall be reconciled to the cash previously counted or received by the cage by personnel independent of the card room. 


(7) All decreases to the pool must be properly documented, including a reason for the decrease. 


(i) *Promotional progressive pots and pools where funds are displayed in the card room.* (1) Promotional funds displayed in the card room shall be placed in a locked container in plain view of the public. 


(2) Persons authorized to transport the locked container shall be precluded from having access to the contents keys. 


(3) The contents key shall be maintained by personnel independent of the card room. 


(4) At least once a day, the locked container shall be removed by two persons, one of whom is independent of the card games department, and transported directly to the cage or other secure room to be counted, recorded, and verified. 


(5) The locked container shall then be returned to the card room where the posted pool amount shall be updated to reflect the current pool amount. 


(j) *Promotional progressive pots and pools where funds are maintained in the cage.* (1) Promotional funds removed from the card game shall be placed in a locked container. 


(2) Persons authorized to transport the locked container shall be precluded from having access to the contents keys. 


(3) The contents key shall be maintained by personnel independent of the card room. 


(4) At least once a day, the locked container shall be removed by two persons, one of whom is independent of the card games department, and transported directly to the cage or other secure room to be counted, recorded, and verified, prior to accepting the funds into cage accountability. 


(5) The posted pool amount shall then be updated to reflect the current pool amount. 




