# ยง 154.33   Notice of Final Determination.

(a) *Publication and notice to registrants and applicants.* The Administrator shall prepare a Notice of Final Determination after the close of the comment period on a Notice of Preliminary Determination. As necessary, the Administrator shall also prepare Notices of Intent to Cancel, Notices of Denial, Notices of Intent to Hold a Hearing under FIFRA section 6(b)(2), or Notices of Intent to Change Classification.


(b) *Contents.* The Notice of Final Determination shall include:


(1) For each pesticide use subject to the Notice of Preliminary Determination, the Agency's final determination with respect to each use, along with a discussion of the reasons for the determination.


(2) Any comments submitted by the Secretary of Agriculture or the Scientific Advisory Panel, and the responses of the Administrator to these comments.


(3) The response of the Administrator to any significant public comments submitted on the Notice of Preliminary Determination.


(4) Instructions to registrants, applicants for registration, and other interested persons concerning the procedures which will be used to implement any regulatory action which the Administrator has decided upon, including instructions concerning how to request hearings, if hearings are available as of right under the Act or have been made available by the Administrator under the Act.


(5) The location of the docket under ยง 154.15 and the times during which the docket will be available for inspection and copying.


(c) *Publication and notification of registrants and applicants.* The Notice of Final Determination and any Notice of Intent to Cancel, Notice of Denial, Notice of Intent to Hold a Hearing, or Notice of Intent to Change Classification shall be published in the _Federal Register._ If the Administrator issues a Notice of Intent to Cancel, Notice of Denial, Notice of Intent to Hold a Hearing, or Notice of Intent to Change Classification, such notice, along with the Notice of Final Determination, also shall be sent by certified mail to all affected registrants and applicants.




