# § 157.204   Application procedure.

(a) *Who may apply.* Any interstate pipeline which has been issued a certificate other than a limited-jurisdiction certificate, pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act and had rates accepted by the Commission may apply for a blanket certificate under this subpart in the manner prescribed in §§ 157.6(a), 157.14(a) and 385.2011 of this chapter.


(b) *Hearing procedure.* Upon receiving an application for a blanket certificate under this subpart, the Commission will conduct a hearing pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act and §§ 1.32 and 157.11 of this chapter.


(c) *Issuance.* If required by the present or future public convenience and necessity, the Commission will issue a blanket certificate to the applicant.


(d) *Application contents.* Applications for blanket certificates shall contain:


(1) Information indicating the exact legal name of the applicant; its principal place of business; whether the applicant is an individual, partnership, corporation or otherwise; citation to the certificate proceeding in which the applicant was found to be a natural gas company; the state under the laws of which the applicant is organized or authorized to do business; and the name, title, and mailing address and telephone number of the person or persons to whom communications concerning the application are to be addressed;


(2) A statement that the applicant will comply with the terms, conditions and procedures specified in this subpart.



---

[N] [Order 234, 47 FR 24266, June 4, 1982, as amended by Order 319, 48 FR 34888, Aug. 1, 1983; Order 433, 50 FR 40345, Oct. 3, 1985; Order 436, 50 FR 42490, Oct. 18, 1985; Order 493, 53 FR 15030, Apr. 27, 1988; Order 603, 64 FR 26607, May 14, 1999]




