# § 71.8   Affected State review.

(a) *Notice of draft permits.* When a part 71 operating permits program becomes effective in a State or within Indian country, the permitting authority shall provide notice of each draft permit to any affected State, as defined in § 71.2 on or before the time that the permitting authority provides this notice to the public pursuant to § 71.7 or § 71.11(d) except to the extent § 71.7(e)(1) or (2) requires the timing of the notice to be different.


(b) *Notice of refusal to accept recommendations.* Prior to issuance of the final permit, the permitting authority shall notify any affected State in writing of any refusal by the permitting authority to accept all recommendations for the proposed permit that the affected State submitted during the public or affected State review period. The notice shall include the permitting authority's reasons for not accepting any such recommendation. The permitting authority is not required to accept recommendations that are not based on applicable requirements or the requirements of this part. In the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10, the permitting authority shall include such notice as part of the submittal of the proposed permit to the Administrator (or as soon as possible after the submittal for minor permit modification procedures allowed under § 71.7(e)(1) or (2)). 


(c) *Waiver of notice requirements.* The Administrator may waive the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for any category of sources (including any class, type, or size within such category) other than major sources by regulation for a category of sources nationwide. 


(d) *Notice provided to Indian Tribes.* The permitting authority shall provide notice of each draft permit to any federally recognized Indian Tribe:


(1) Whose air quality may be affected by the permitting action and is in an area contiguous to the jurisdiction in which the part 71 permit is proposed; or


(2) Is within 50 miles of the permitted source.



---

[N] [61 FR 34228, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 8263, Feb. 19, 1999]




