# § 75.818   Use of insulated cable handling equipment.

(a) Energized high-voltage cables must not be handled except when motor or shearer cables need to be trained. When cables need to be trained, high-voltage insulated gloves, mitts, hooks, tongs, slings, aprons, or other personal protective equipment capable of providing protection against shock hazard must be used to prevent direct contact with the cable. 


(b) High-voltage insulated gloves, sleeves, and other insulated personal protective equipment must— 


(1) Have a voltage rating of at least Class 1 (7,500 volts) that meets or exceeds ASTM F496-97, “Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves” (1997). 


(2) Be examined before each use for visible signs of damage; 


(3) Be removed from the underground area of the mine or destroyed when damaged or defective; and 


(4) Be electrically tested every 6 months in accordance with publication ASTM F496-97. ASTM F496-97 (Standard Specification for In-Service Care of Insulating Gloves and Sleeves, 1997) is incorporated by reference and may be inspected at any MSHA Coal Mine Safety and Health District Office, or at MSHA's Office of Standards, Regulations, and Variances, 201 12th Street South, Arlington, VA 22202-5452; 202-693-9440; and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.* In addition, copies of the document can be purchased from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959; 610-832-9500; *http://www.astm.org.* This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.



---

[N] [67 FR 11001, Mar. 11, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 38386, June 4, 2002; 71 FR 16668, Apr. 3, 2006; 80 FR 52992, Sept. 2, 2015]




