# § 17.551   Agreement and obligated service.

(a) *Agreement.* Each participant who accepts funds from the RCSSP will enter into an agreement with VA where the participant agrees to the following:


(1) Maintain enrollment, attendance, and an acceptable level of academic standing as defined by the school;


(2) Obtain a terminal degree in psychology, social work, marriage and family therapy, or professional mental health counseling; and


(3) Be employed as a full-time VA employee at a Vet Center for a period of six-years as a psychologist, social worker, marriage and family therapist, or professional mental health counselor following the completion of such program of study.


(4) Psychologists must complete a one-year internship at either an American Psychological Association (APA) or Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) accredited program. Obtaining an APA or CPA accredited internship requires that an individual participate in the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC) process. If a scholarship participant does not participate in an APA or CPA accredited internship, they are in breach of their agreement.


(b) *Obligated service*—(1) *Determination of service commencement date.* VA will notify the participant of the commencement date of the period of obligated service no later than 60 days before such date.


(2) *Commencement date of obligated service*—(i) *General.* A participant's period of obligated service will begin on the date the participant begins full-time permanent employment at a Vet Center as a psychologist, social worker, marriage and family therapist, or professional mental health counselor, but no later than 180 days after the date that the participant completes a terminal degree in one of the identified disciplines. Psychology participants will commence their period of obligated service no later than 180 days after completion of their one-year APA or CPA internship, which requires completion of all academic requirements to obtain a terminal doctorate degree.


(ii) *Independent practice.* Upon receipt of the terminal degree, participants will enter VA employment at the entry level until full licensure at the independent practice level has been attained. Independent practice licensure is a requirement for all scholarship participants. Non-licensed psychologists, social workers, marriage and family therapists, and professional mental health counselors are required to serve under the supervision of a licensed health care professional of their profession and must be independently licensed by a State within the time frame specified in VA qualification standards.


(iii) *VA monitoring of participants.* VA will actively assist and monitor participants to ensure State licenses are obtained in a minimal amount of time following graduation and the required period of supervision for their profession. If a participant fails to obtain their terminal degree or fails to obtain licensure in a State at the independent practice level no later than 180 days after the required period of supervision for their profession, the participant is considered to be in breach of the acceptance agreement.


(3) *Location and position of obligated service.* VA reserves the right to make final decisions on the location and position of the obligated service. A participant who receives an RCSSP must be willing to relocate to another geographic location to carry out their service obligation in accordance with the participant's agreement. The requirement for participants to receive supervision from a licensed staff within their respective professions, as a condition for their own licensure, is a critical point for the consideration of the potential location of the obligated service.


