# § 32.15-15   Anchors, Chains, and Hawsers—TB/ALL

(a) *Application.* Use the following table to determine which provisions of this section apply to you:


(b) *Ocean, Coastwise, or Great Lakes Service.* Tankships in ocean, coastwise, or Great Lakes service and manned seagoing barges must be fitted with anchors, chains and hawsers in general agreement with the standards established by the American Bureau of Shipping. The current standards of other recognized classification societies may also be accepted upon approval by the Commandant. 


(c) *Lakes, Bays, and Sounds, or River Service.* Tankships in lakes, bays, and sounds, or river service must be fitted with such ground tackle and hawsers as deemed necessary by the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, depending upon the size of the tankship and the waters on which it operates. 


(d) *Tankships and Barges Constructed Before June 15, 1987.* For each tankship or manned seagoing barge constructed before June 15, 1987, except a barge specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the equipment previously accepted or approved is satisfactory for the same service so long as it is maintained in good condition to the satisfaction of the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI). If the service of the vessel changes, the OCMI will evaluate the suitability of the equipment.


(e) *Barges Equipped with Anchors to Comply with 33 CFR 155.230(b)(1).* Each barge equipped with an anchor, to comply with 33 CFR 155.230(b)(1), must be fitted with an operable anchoring system that includes a cable or chain, and a winch or windlass. All components of the system must be in general conformity with the standards issued by a recognized classification society. Inquiries concerning classification society standards for anchoring systems should be directed to Commandant (CG-ENG-3), Attn: Systems Engineering Division, U.S. Coast Guard Stop 7509, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20593-7509; telephone 202-372-1378 or fax 202-372-1925. If the Coast Guard finds that your anchoring system is not in general conformity with an approved standard, it will advise you how to bring it into such conformity. 


(f) *Operation and Performance.* Each anchor, exposed length of chain or cable, and hawser must be visually inspected before the barge begins each voyage. The anchor must be stowed so that it is ready for immediate use in an emergency. The barge must have a working means for releasing the anchor that can be operated safely by one or two persons.



---

[N] [CGD 84-073, 52 FR 18362, May 15, 1987; 52 FR 22751, June 15, 1987, as amended by USCG-1998-4443, 63 FR 71764, Dec. 30, 1998; USCG-1998-4443, 65 FR 31813, May 19, 2000; USCG-2006-25697, 71 FR 55746, Sept. 25, 2006; USCG-2009-0702, 74 FR 49227, Sept. 25, 2009; USCG-2013-0671, 78 FR 60147, Sept. 30, 2013]




