# ยง 1102.105   Requests for amendment of records.

(a) *Place to make requests.* A request by an individual to amend records pertaining to him or her may be made in person during normal business hours at the ASC located at 1325 G Street NW, Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005, or by mail addressed to the Privacy Act Officer, ASC, 1325 G Street NW, Suite 500, Washington, DC 20005.


(1) *Information to be included in requests.* Each request to amend an ASC record shall reasonably describe the record sought to be amended. Such description should include, for example, relevant names, dates and subject matter to permit the record to be located among the records maintained by the ASC. An individual who has requested that a record pertaining to the individual be amended will be advised promptly if the record cannot be located on the basis of the description given and that further identifying information is necessary before the request can be processed. An initial evaluation of a request presented in person will be made immediately to ensure that the request is complete and to indicate what, if any, additional information will be required. Verification of the individual's identity as set forth in ยง 1102.102(a) (2), (3), (4) and (5) may also be required.


(2) *Basis for amendment.* An individual requesting an amendment to a record pertaining to the individual shall specify the substance of the amendment and set forth facts and provide such materials that would support his or her contention that the record as maintained by the ASC is not accurate, timely or complete, or that the record is not necessary and relevant to accomplish a statutory purpose of the ASC as authorized by law or by Executive Order of the President.


(b) *Acknowledgement of requests for amendment.* Receipt of a request to amend a record pertaining to an individual normally will be acknowledged in writing within 10 days after such request has been received, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays. When a request to amend is made in person, the individual making the request will be given a written acknowledgement when the request is presented. The acknowledgement will describe the request received and indicate when it is anticipated that action will be taken on the request. No acknowledgement will be sent when the request for amendment will be reviewed, and an initial decision made, within the 10 day period after such request has been received.



---

[N] [57 FR 36357, Aug. 13, 1992, as amended at 69 FR 2501, Jan. 16, 2004; 75 FR 36270, June 25, 2010]




