# § 61.165   Additional aircraft category and class ratings.

(a) *Rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating.* A person applying for an airline transport certificate with a rotorcraft category and helicopter class rating who holds an airline transport pilot certificate with another aircraft category rating must: 


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part; 


(2) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part; 


(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate; 


(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.161 of this part; and 


(5) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(4) of this part. 


(b) *Airplane category rating with a single-engine class rating.* A person applying for an airline transport certificate with an airplane category and single-engine class rating who holds an airline transport pilot certificate with another aircraft category rating must: 


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part; 


(2) Pass a knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part; 


(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate; 


(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 of this part; and 


(5) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(1) of this part. 


(c) *Airplane category rating with a multiengine class rating.* A person applying for an airline transport certificate with an airplane category and multiengine class rating who holds an airline transport certificate with another aircraft category rating must: 


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part; 


(2) Successfully complete the airline transport pilot certification training program specified in § 61.156;


(3) Pass a knowledge test for an airplane category multiengine class rating or type rating on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c);


(4) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate; 


(5) Meet the aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159 or § 61.160; and


(6) Pass the practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(2) of this part. 


(d) *Powered-lift category.* A person applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with a powered-lift category rating who holds an airline transport certificate with another aircraft category rating must: 


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153 of this part; 


(2) Pass a required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c) of this part; 


(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if appropriate; 


(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.163 of this part; and 


(5) Pass the required practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(3) of this part. 


(e) *Additional class rating within the same aircraft category.* Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a person applying for an airline transport pilot certificate with an additional class rating who holds an airline transport certificate in the same aircraft category must—


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153, except paragraph (g) of that section;


(2) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b) of this part, if applicable;


(3) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of subpart G of this part; and 


(4) Pass a practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e) appropriate to the aircraft rating sought.


(f) *Adding a multiengine class rating to an airline transport pilot certificate with a single engine class rating.* A person applying to add a multiengine class rating, or a multiengine class rating concurrently with a multiengine airplane type rating, to an airline transport pilot certificate with an airplane category single engine class rating must—


(1) Meet the eligibility requirements of § 61.153;


(2) Pass a required knowledge test on the aeronautical knowledge areas of § 61.155(c), as applicable to multiengine airplanes;




(3) Comply with the requirements in § 61.157(b), if applicable;


(4) Meet the applicable aeronautical experience requirements of § 61.159; and


(5) Pass a practical test on the areas of operation of § 61.157(e)(2).



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40906, July 30, 1997, as amended by Amdt. 61-110, 69 FR 44869, July 27, 2004; Amdt. 61-130, 78 FR 42376, July 15, 2013; Amdt. 61-130B, 78 FR 77574, Dec. 24, 2013; Amdt. 61-130C, 81 FR 2, Jan. 4, 2016; FAA-2023-1275; Amdt. No. 61-157, 89 FR 92485, Nov. 21, 2024]




