# § 520.1441   Milbemycin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each flavored tablet contains 2.3, 5.75, 11.5, or 23.0 milligrams (mg) of milbemycin oxime.


(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 013744 and 058198 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* For hookworm, roundworm, and whipworm, administer 0.23 mg per pound (mg/lb) of body weight (0.5 mg per kilogram (mg/kg)). For heartworm, administer 0.05 mg/lb of body weight (0.1 mg/kg). Administer once a month.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis,* control of hookworm infections caused by *Ancylostoma caninum,* and removal and control of adult roundworm infections caused by *Toxocara canis* and *Toxascaris leonina* and whipworm infections caused by *Trichuris vulpis* in dogs and puppies 4 weeks of age or greater and 2 pounds body weight or greater.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Cats*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 0.91 mg/lb of body weight (2.0 mg/kg) once a month.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis* and the removal of adult *Toxocara cati* (roundworm) and *Ancylostoma tubaeforme* (hookworm) infections in cats 6 weeks of age or greater and 1.5 pounds body weight or greater.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [84 FR 12494, Apr. 2, 2019]




