# ยง 9.8   Animal records.

(a) *What records must be maintained for chimpanzees in the sanctuary and how are they managed?* (1) Contractors and Subcontractors operating the federal chimpanzee sanctuary system must maintain appropriate records to allow for accountability and disposition of chimpanzees under their care as required by the USDA Animal Welfare Regulations (9 CFR 2.35). The records may be created and retained in electronic form.


(2) The animal records currently required by the USDA Animal Welfare Regulations are also required for these standards. Chimpanzees must be individually and permanently identifiable.


(3) Retrievable records must be maintained for a minimum of three years beyond the disposition or death of each chimpanzee in accordance with the Animal Welfare Regulations section 2.35(f) (9 CFR 2.35(f)). Original records or a copy must be transferred if the chimpanzee moves to a different facility. The records must include standard information, including permanent individual identification, research use(s), reproductive status (past and present), a summary or copy of the medical and behavioral history, the sire's identification number (if available), the dam's identification number, birth date, sex, and date acquired by the sanctuary. The disposition date must also be noted, if applicable, including whether the chimpanzee died or was transferred to another site in the federal sanctuary system. The records may be created and retained in electronic form.


(4) The contractor and any subcontractor(s) operating the federally supported chimpanzee sanctuary must provide special, quarterly, and annual progress reports to the designated Federal officials as identified in the contract. The annual report must also contain a statement that certifies the sanctuary is in full compliance with these standards of care regulation.


(b) *What are the rules governing the disposition of necropsy records?* The CHIMP Act requires that necropsy records from chimpanzees previously used in federally funded research projects be made available on a reasonable basis to investigators engaged in biomedical or behavioral research. In order to comply with this provision, the contractor for the sanctuary system must devise a plan that will allow interested parties to contact the sanctuary and receive necropsy records when they become available. Records may be provided free of charge but requesters may be required to pay for packaging and shipping costs. The records may be created and retained in electronic form. 




