# ยง 205.171-2   Test exhaust system sample selection and preparation.

(a)(1) Exhaust systems comprising the sample which are required to be tested under a test request in accordance with this subpart must be selected consecutively as they are produced.


(2) Test motorcycles and test exhaust systems to be used for testing of exhaust systems must be of the subject class which has been assembled using the manufacturer's normal production processes, in stock configuration including exhaust system, as sold or offered for sale in commerce.


(3) Before the official test, the test motorcycle and test exhaust system must not be prepared, tested, modified, adjusted, or maintained in any manner unless such preparation, tests, modifications, adjustments or maintenance are part of the original equipment manufacturer's prescribed manufacturing and inspection procedures, and are documented in the manufacturer's internal motorcycle assembly and inspection procedures, or are required or permitted under this subpart, or are approved in advance by the Administrator.


(4) Equipment or fixtures necessary to conduct the test may be installed on the motorcycle, if such equipment or fixtures shall have no effect on the noise emissions of the motorcycle as determined by the measurement methodology.


(5) In the event of a motorcycle malfunction (*i.e.*, failure to start, etc.) maintenance that is necessary may be performed to enable the vehicle to operate in a normal manner. This maintenance must be documented and reported in the final report prepared and submitted in accordance with this subpart.


(6) No quality control, quality assurance testing, assembly or selection procedures may be used on the test vehicle or any portion thereof, including parts and subassemblies, that will not normally be used during the production and assembly of all other motorcycles of that class which will be distributed in commerce, unless such procedures are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator.


(b) The Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) is 10 percent. The appropriate sampling plans associated with the designated AQL are contained in appendix II or the test request. 


(c) The exhaust systems of the category selected for testing must be assembled by the manufacturer for distribution in commerce using the manufacturer's normal production process. 


(d) Unless otherwise indicated in the test request, the manufacturer must initiate testing with the exhaust systems of the category specified in the test request which are next scheduled for production after receipt of the test request. 


(e) The manufacturer must keep on hand all products in the test sample until the sample is accepted or rejected in accordance with ยง 205.171-8; except that exhaust systems actually tested and found to be in conformance with this regulation need not be kept.



---

[N] [45 FR 86718, Dec. 31, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 57723, Dec. 28, 1982]




