# § 60.375a   Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and maintain them in a format readily available for review onsite for a period of 5 years.


(1) Records of pressure drop values and liquid flow rate from the monitoring required in § 60.373a(a) for scrubbing systems.


(2) Records of fabric filter inspections and maintenance activities required in § 60.373a(b)(1).


(3) Records required under § 60.373a(b)(3) or (b)(6)(ii) of fabric filter pressure drop, pressure drop observed outside of normal operating ranges as specified by the manufacturer, and corrective actions taken.


(4) Records of the required opacity measurements in § 60.373a(b)(4) or (b)(6)(iii).


(5) If a bag leak detection system is used under § 60.373a(b)(5), for a period of 5 years, keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.


(ii) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.


(iii) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 60.373a(b)(5).


(6) Records of all cleaning required as part of the practices described in the fugitive dust mitigation plan required under § 60.372a(c) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.


(7) You must keep the records of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard in this part, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause and duration of each failure.


(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard in this part, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(b) Beginning on April 24, 2023, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Data collected containing confidential business information (CBI).* (i) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.


(ii) The file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(iii) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.


(iv) The preferred method for CBI submittal is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described in this paragraph (b)(3), should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(v) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention: Lead Acid Battery Sector Lead and Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer wrapping.


(vi) All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(vii) You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(c) You must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report according to § 60.7(c) and (d) to the Administrator semiannually. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part. For each instance, report the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. You must use the appropriate spreadsheet template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. As stated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. If you claim CBI, submit the report following description in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to CEDRI as described in this section.


(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.


(f) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.








