# § 1030.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Account* means a deposit account at a depository institution that is held by or offered to a consumer. It includes time, demand, savings, and negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. For purposes of the advertising requirements in § 1030.8 of this part, the term also includes an account at a depository institution that is held by or on behalf of a deposit broker, if any interest in the account is held by or offered to a consumer.


(b) *Advertisement* means a commercial message, appearing in any medium, that promotes directly or indirectly:


(1) The availability or terms of, or a deposit in, a new account; and


(2) For purposes of §§ 1030.8(a) and 1030.11 of this part, the terms of, or a deposit in, a new or existing account.


(c) *Annual percentage yield* means a percentage rate reflecting the total amount of interest paid on an account, based on the interest rate and the frequency of compounding for a 365-day period and calculated according to the rules in appendix A of this part.


(d) *Average daily balance method* means the application of a periodic rate to the average daily balance in the account for the period. The average daily balance is determined by adding the full amount of principal in the account for each day of the period and dividing that figure by the number of days in the period.


(e) *Bureau* means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.


(f) *Bonus* means a premium, gift, award, or other consideration worth more than $10 (whether in the form of cash, credit, merchandise, or any equivalent) given or offered to a consumer during a year in exchange for opening, maintaining, renewing, or increasing an account balance. The term does not include interest, other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver or reduction of a fee, or the absorption of expenses.


(g) *Business day* means a calendar day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or any of the legal public holidays specified in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a).


(h) *Consumer* means a natural person who holds an account primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, or to whom such an account is offered. The term does not include a natural person who holds an account for another in a professional capacity.


(i) *Daily balance method* means the application of a daily periodic rate to the full amount of principal in the account each day.


(j) *Depository institution* and *institution* mean an institution defined in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i) through (vi) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461), except credit unions defined in section 19(b)(1)(A)(iv).


(k) *Deposit broker* means any person who is a deposit broker as defined in section 29(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831f(g)).


(l) *Fixed-rate account* means an account for which the institution contracts to give at least 30 calendar days advance written notice of decreases in the interest rate.


(m) *Grace period* means a period following the maturity of an automatically renewing time account during which the consumer may withdraw funds without being assessed a penalty.


(n) *Interest* means any payment to a consumer or to an account for the use of funds in an account, calculated by application of a periodic rate to the balance. The term does not include the payment of a bonus or other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver or reduction of a fee, or the absorption of expenses.


(o) *Interest rate* means the annual rate of interest paid on an account which does not reflect compounding. For the purposes of the account disclosures in § 1030.4(b)(1)(i) of this part, the interest rate may, but need not, be referred to as the “annual percentage rate” in addition to being referred to as the “interest rate.”


(p) *Passbook savings account* means a savings account in which the consumer retains a book or other document in which the institution records transactions on the account.


(q) *Periodic statement* means a statement setting forth information about an account (other than a time account or passbook savings account) that is provided to a consumer on a regular basis four or more times a year.


(r) *State* means a state, the District of Columbia, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States.


(s) *Stepped-rate account* means an account that has two or more interest rates that take effect in succeeding periods and are known when the account is opened.


(t) *Tiered-rate account* means an account that has two or more interest rates that are applicable to specified balance levels.


(u) *Time account* means an account with a maturity of at least seven days in which the consumer generally does not have a right to make withdrawals for six days after the account is opened, unless the deposit is subject to an early withdrawal penalty of at least seven days' interest on amounts withdrawn.


(v) *Variable-rate account* means an account in which the interest rate may change after the account is opened, unless the institution contracts to give at least 30 calendar days advance written notice of rate decreases.




