# ยง 190.11   Valuation of merchandise.

The values declared to CBP as part of a complete drawback claim pursuant to ยง 190.51 must be established as provided below. If the drawback eligible merchandise or articles are destroyed, then the value of the imported merchandise and any substituted merchandise must be reduced by the value of materials recovered during destruction in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1313(x).


(a) *Designated imported merchandise.* The value of the imported merchandise is determined as follows:


(1) *Direct identification claims.* The value of the imported merchandise is the customs value of the imported merchandise upon entry into the United States (see subpart E of part 152 of this chapter); or, if the merchandise is identified pursuant to an approved accounting method, then the value of the imported merchandise is the customs value that is properly attributable to the imported merchandise as identified by the appropriate recordkeeping (see ยง 190.14, varies by accounting method).


(2) *Substitution claims.* The value of the designated imported merchandise is the per unit average value, which is the entered value for the applicable entry summary line item apportioned equally over each unit covered by the line item.


(b) *Exported merchandise or articles.* The value of the exported merchandise or articles eligible for drawback is the selling price as declared for the Electronic Export Information (EEI), including any adjustments and exclusions required by 15 CFR 30.6(a). If there is no selling price for the EEI, then the value is the other value as declared for the EEI including any adjustments and exclusions required by 15 CFR 30.6(a) (e.g., the market price, if the goods are shipped on consignment). (For special types of transactions where certain unusual conditions are involved, the value for the EEI is determined pursuant to 15 CFR part 30 subpart C.) If no EEI is required (*see,* 15 CFR part 30 subpart D for a complete list of exemptions), then the claimant must provide the value that would have been set forth on the EEI when the exportation took place, but for the exemption from the requirement for an EEI.


(c) *Destroyed merchandise or articles.* The value of the destroyed merchandise or articles eligible for drawback is the value at the time of destruction, determined as if the merchandise had been exported in its condition at the time of its destruction and an EEI had been required.


(d) *Substituted merchandise for manufacturing drawback claims.* The value of the substituted merchandise for manufacturing drawback claims pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) is the cost of acquisition or production for the manufacturer or producer who used the substituted merchandise in manufacturing or production. These costs must be based on records kept in the ordinary course of business and may be determined on the basis of any of the inventory accounting methods recognized in the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Any inventory management method which is used by a manufacturer or producer for valuation of the substituted merchandise for manufacturing drawback claims under 19 U.S.C. 1313(b) must be used without variation with other methods for a period of at least 1 year.




