# ยง 347.3   Definitions.

(a) *Auto-IRA* means an individual retirement account for or opened on behalf of a participant in a state retirement savings program (whether or not the program provides for automatic enrollment).


(b) *State Auto-IRA program* means a state Auto-IRA retirement savings program.


(c) *IRA* means an individual retirement account.


(d) *Custodian* means a trustee or custodian of a Roth IRA or traditional IRA.


(e) *State* means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or certain of their political subdivisions.


(f) *Auto-IRA custodian* means an entity designated by a state (including, for the purpose of these regulations, political subdivisions of states) to act as the trustee or custodian for Auto-IRAs, in the form of Roth IRAs or traditional IRAs, for or opened on behalf of participants in a state Auto-IRA program.


(g) *Retirement savings bond,* as used in this part, means an interest-bearing electronic United States savings bond issued to an Auto-IRA or IRA custodian.


(h) *IRA custodian* means an entity designated by Fiscal Service to act as a custodian for Roth IRAs opened by or on behalf of participants in Treasury's retirement savings program.


(i) *Individual* means a person eligible to have an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.


(j) *Participant* means an individual who has an IRA in Treasury's retirement savings program or in a state Auto-IRA program.


(k) *Roth IRA* means an individual retirement account defined under 26 U.S.C. 408A.


(l) *Treasury* means the United States Department of the Treasury.


(m) *Secretary* means the Secretary of the Treasury.





---

[N] [79 FR 74024, Dec. 15, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 6246, Jan. 19, 2017]






