# § 63.11516   What are my standards and management practices?

(a) *Dry abrasive blasting standards.* If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, for each dry abrasive blasting operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when abrasive blasting operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP or do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.


(1) *Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects performed in totally enclosed and unvented blast chambers.* If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of an abrasive blasting chamber that is totally enclosed and unvented, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, you must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP. These management practices are the practices specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must minimize dust generation during emptying of abrasive blasting enclosures; and


(ii) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to the manufacturer's instructions.


(2) *Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects performed in vented enclosures.* If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of a dry abrasive blasting operation which has a vent allowing any air or blast material to escape, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. Dry abrasive blasting operations for which the items to be blasted exceed 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any dimension, may be performed subject to the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(i) You must capture emissions and vent them to a filtration control device. You must operate the filtration control device according to manufacturer's instructions, and you must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the filtration control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?”


(ii) You must implement the management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and


(B) You must enclose dusty abrasive material storage areas and holding bins, seal chutes and conveyors that transport abrasive materials; and


(C) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to manufacturer's instructions.


(3) *Standards for dry abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension.* If you own or operate a new or existing dry abrasive blasting affected source which consists of a dry abrasive blasting operation which is performed on objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension, you may implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section instead of the practices required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section. You must demonstrate that management practices are being implemented by complying with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Management practices for dry abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension are specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and


(B) You must enclose abrasive material storage areas and holding bins, seal chutes and conveyors that transport abrasive material; and


(C) You must operate all equipment associated with dry abrasive blasting operations according to manufacturer's instructions; and


(D) You must not re-use dry abrasive blasting media unless contaminants (i.e., any material other than the base metal, such as paint residue) have been removed by filtration or screening, and the abrasive material conforms to its original size; and


(E) Whenever practicable, you must switch from high particulate matter (PM)-emitting blast media (e.g., sand) to low PM-emitting blast media (e.g., crushed glass, specular hematite, steel shot, aluminum oxide), where PM is a surrogate for MFHAP.


(ii) You must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions, as specified in § 63.11517(b), “What are my monitoring requirements?”, according to paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) For abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension that is performed outdoors, you must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions at the fenceline or property border nearest to the outdoor dry abrasive blasting operation.


(B) For abrasive blasting of objects greater than 8 feet (2.4 meters) in any one dimension that is performed indoors, you must perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the abrasive blasting operations.


(iii) You must keep a record of all visual determinations of fugitive emissions along with any corrective action taken in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(2), “What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?”


(iv) If visible fugitive emissions are detected, you must perform corrective actions until the visible fugitive emissions are eliminated, at which time you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) You must perform a follow-up inspection for visible fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring Requirements.”


(B) You must report all instances where visible emissions are detected, along with any corrective action taken and the results of subsequent follow-up inspections for visible emissions, with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(b) *Standards for machining.* If you own or operate a new or existing machining affected source, you must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section for each machining operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when machining operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP and do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.


(1) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable; and


(2) You must operate all equipment associated with machining according to manufacturer's instructions.


(c) *Standards for dry grinding and dry polishing with machines.* If you own or operate a new or existing dry grinding and dry polishing with machines affected source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for each dry grinding and dry polishing with machines operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. These requirements do not apply when dry grinding and dry polishing operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP and do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.


(1) You must capture emissions and vent them to a filtration control device. You must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the filtration control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting Requirements.”


(2) You must implement management practices to minimize emissions of MFHAP as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must take measures necessary to minimize excess dust in the surrounding area to reduce MFHAP emissions, as practicable;


(ii) You must operate all equipment associated with the operation of dry grinding and dry polishing with machines, including the filtration control device, according to manufacturer's instructions.


(d) *Standards for control of MFHAP in spray painting.* If you own or operate a new or existing spray painting affected source, as defined in § 63.11514 (b)(4), “Am I subject to this subpart?,” you must implement the management practices in paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section when a spray-applied paint that contains MFHAP is being applied. These requirements do not apply when spray-applied paints that do not contain MFHAP are being applied.


(1) *Standards for spray painting for MFHAP control.* All spray-applied painting of objects must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. These requirements do not apply to affected sources located at Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing facilities, as described in Table 1, “Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart,” or affected sources that spray paint objects greater than 15 feet (4.57 meters), that are not spray painted in spray booths or spray rooms.


(i) Spray booths or spray rooms must have a full roof, at least two complete walls, and one or two complete side curtains or other barrier material so that all four sides are covered. The spray booths or spray rooms must be ventilated so that air is drawn into the booth and leaves only though the filter. The roof may contain narrow slots for connecting fabricated products to overhead cranes, and/or for cords or cables.


(ii) All spray booths or spray rooms must be fitted with a type of filter technology that is demonstrated to achieve at least 98 percent capture of MFHAP. The procedure used to demonstrate filter efficiency must be consistent with the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Method 52.1, “Gravimetric and Dust-Spot Procedures for Testing Air-Cleaning Devices Used in General Ventilation for Removing Particulate Matter, June 4, 1992” (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). The test coating for measuring filter efficiency shall be a high-solids bake enamel delivered at a rate of at least 135 grams per minute from a conventional (non-High Volume Low Pressure) air-atomized spray gun operating at 40 psi air pressure; the air flow rate across the filter shall be 150 feet per minute. Owners and operators may use published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors to demonstrate compliance with this requirement and are not required to perform this measurement.


(iii) You must perform regular inspection and replacement of the filters in all spray booths or spray rooms according to manufacturer's instructions, and maintain documentation of these activities, as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(iv) As an alternative compliance requirement, spray booths or spray rooms equipped with a water curtain, called “waterwash” or “waterspray” booths or spray rooms that are operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications and that achieve at least 98 percent control of MFHAP, may be used in lieu of the spray booths or spray rooms requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(2) *Standards for spray painting application equipment of all objects painted for MFHAP control.* All paints applied via spray-applied painting must be applied with a high-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray gun, electrostatic application, airless spray gun, air-assisted airless spray gun, or an equivalent technology that is demonstrated to achieve transfer efficiency comparable to one of these spray gun technologies for a comparable operation, and for which written approval has been obtained from the Administrator. The procedure used to demonstrate that spray gun transfer efficiency is equivalent to that of an HVLP spray gun must be equivalent to the California South Coast Air Quality Management District's “Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989” and “Guidelines for Demonstrating Equivalency with District Approved Transfer Efficient Spray Guns, September 26, 2002”, Revision 0 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).


(3) *Spray system recordkeeping.* You must maintain documentation of the HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray paint delivery methods, as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(7), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(4) *Spray gun cleaning.* All cleaning of paint spray guns must be done with either non-HAP gun cleaning solvents, or in such a manner that an atomized mist of spray of gun cleaning solvent and paint residue is not created outside of a container that collects the used gun cleaning solvent. Spray gun cleaning may be done with, for example, by hand cleaning of parts of the disassembled gun in a container of solvent, by flushing solvent through the gun without atomizing the solvent and paint residue, or by using a fully enclosed spray gun washer. A combination of these non-atomizing methods may also be used.


(5) *Spray painting worker certification.* All workers performing painting must be certified that they have completed training in the proper spray application of paints and the proper setup and maintenance of spray equipment. The minimum requirements for training and certification are described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The spray application of paint is prohibited by persons who are not certified as having completed the training described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to the students of an accredited painting training program who are under the direct supervision of an instructor who meets the requirements of this paragraph. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to operators of robotic or automated painting operations.


(6) *Spray painting training program content.* Each owner or operator of an affected spray painting affected source must ensure and certify that all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who spray apply paints are trained in the proper application of paints as required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The training program must include, at a minimum, the items listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) A list of all current personnel by name and job description who are required to be trained;


(ii) Hands-on, or in-house or external classroom instruction that addresses, at a minimum, initial and refresher training in the topics listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Spray gun equipment selection, set up, and operation, including measuring paint viscosity, selecting the proper fluid tip or nozzle, and achieving the proper spray pattern, air pressure and volume, and fluid delivery rate.


(B) Spray technique for different types of paints to improve transfer efficiency and minimize paint usage and overspray, including maintaining the correct spray gun distance and angle to the part, using proper banding and overlap, and reducing lead and lag spraying at the beginning and end of each stroke.


(C) Routine spray booth and filter maintenance, including filter selection and installation.


(D) Environmental compliance with the requirements of this subpart.


(iii) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate, document, and provide certification of successful completion of the required training. Alternatively, owners and operators who can show by documentation or certification that a painter's work experience and/or training has resulted in training equivalent to the training required in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section are not required to provide the initial training required by that paragraph to these painters.


(7) *Records of spray painting training.* You must maintain records of employee training certification for use of HVLP or other high transfer efficiency spray paint delivery methods as detailed in § 63.11519(c)(8), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(8) *Spray painting training dates.* As required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section, all new and existing personnel at an affected spray painting affected source, including contract personnel, who spray apply paints must be trained by the dates specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) If your source is a new source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than January 20, 2009, 180 days after startup, or 180 days after hiring, whichever is later. Training that was completed within 5 years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed.


(ii) If your source is an existing source, all personnel must be trained and certified no later than July 25, 2011, or 180 days after hiring, whichever is later. Worker training that was completed within 5 years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed.


(9) *Duration of training validity.* Training and certification will be valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed. All personnel must receive refresher training that meets the requirements of this section and be re-certified every 5 years.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Standards for welding.* If you own or operate a new or existing welding affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for each welding operation that uses materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, “What definitions apply to this subpart?”, or has the potential to emit MFHAP. If your welding affected source uses 2,000 pounds or more per year of welding rod containing one or more MFHAP (calculated on a rolling 12-month basis), you must demonstrate that management practices or fume control measures are being implemented by complying with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(3) through (8) of this section. The requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section do not apply when welding operations are being performed that do not use any materials containing MFHAP or do not have the potential to emit MFHAP.


(1) You must operate all equipment, capture, and control devices associated with welding operations according to manufacturer's instructions. You must demonstrate compliance with this requirement by maintaining a record of the manufacturer's specifications for the capture and control devices, as specified by the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(4), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(2) You must implement one or more of the management practices specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (v) of this section to minimize emissions of MFHAP, as practicable, while maintaining the required welding quality through the application of sound engineering judgment.


(i) Use welding processes with reduced fume generation capabilities (e.g., gas metal arc welding (GMAW)—also called metal inert gas welding (MIG));


(ii) Use welding process variations (e.g., pulsed current GMAW), which can reduce fume generation rates;


(iii) Use welding filler metals, shielding gases, carrier gases, or other process materials which are capable of reduced welding fume generation;


(iv) Optimize welding process variables (e.g., electrode diameter, voltage, amperage, welding angle, shield gas flow rate, travel speed) to reduce the amount of welding fume generated; and


(v) Use a welding fume capture and control system, operated according to the manufacturer's specifications.


(3) *Tier 1 compliance requirements for welding.* You must perform visual determinations of welding fugitive emissions as specified in § 63.11517(b), “Monitoring requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations. You must keep a record of all visual determinations of fugitive emissions along with any corrective action taken in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(2), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(4) *Requirements upon initial detection of visible emissions from welding.* If visible fugitive emissions are detected during any visual determination required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Perform corrective actions that include, but are not limited to, inspection of welding fume sources, and evaluation of the proper operation and effectiveness of the management practices or fume control measures implemented in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section. After completing such corrective actions, you must perform a follow-up inspection for visible fugitive emissions in accordance with § 63.11517(a), “Monitoring Requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.


(ii) Report all instances where visible emissions are detected, along with any corrective action taken and the results of subsequent follow-up inspections for visible emissions, and submit with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(5), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(5) *Tier 2 requirements upon subsequent detection of visible emissions.* If visible fugitive emissions are detected more than once during any consecutive 12 month period (notwithstanding the results of any follow-up inspections), you must comply with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Within 24 hours of the end of the visual determination of fugitive emissions in which visible fugitive emissions were detected, you must conduct a visual determination of emissions opacity, as specified in § 63.11517(c), “Monitoring requirements,” at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.


(ii) In lieu of the requirement of paragraph (f)(3) of this section to perform visual determinations of fugitive emissions with EPA Method 22, you must perform visual determinations of emissions opacity in accordance with § 63.11517(d), “Monitoring Requirements,” using EPA Method 9, at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.


(iii) You must keep a record of each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, along with any subsequent corrective action taken, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(3), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(iv) You must report the results of all visual determinations of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraphs (f)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, along with any subsequent corrective action taken, and submit with your annual certification and compliance report as required by § 63.11519(b)(6), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(6) *Requirements for opacities less than or equal to 20 percent but greater than zero.* For each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section for which the average of the six-minute average opacities recorded is 20 percent or less but greater than zero, you must perform corrective actions, including inspection of all welding fume sources, and evaluation of the proper operation and effectiveness of the management practices or fume control measures implemented in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(7) *Tier 3 requirements for opacities exceeding 20 percent.* For each visual determination of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section for which the average of the six-minute average opacities recorded exceeds 20 percent, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) You must submit a report of exceedence of 20 percent opacity, along with your annual certification and compliance report, as specified in § 63.11519(b)(8), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements,” and according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(ii) Within 30 days of the opacity exceedence, you must prepare and implement a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, as specified in paragraph (f)(8) of this section. If you have already prepared a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan in accordance with this paragraph, you must prepare and implement a revised Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan within 30 days.


(iii) During the preparation (or revision) of the Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, you must continue to perform visual determinations of emissions opacity, beginning on a daily schedule as specified in § 63.11517(d), “Monitoring Requirements,” using EPA Method 9, at the primary vent, stack, exit, or opening from the building containing the welding operations.


(iv) You must maintain records of daily visual determinations of emissions opacity performed in accordance with paragraph (f)(7)(iii) of this section, during preparation of the Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(b)(9), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(v) You must include these records in your annual certification and compliance report, according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(8) *Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan.* The Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must contain the information in paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) Company name and address;


(B) A list and description of all welding operations which currently comprise the welding affected source;


(C) A description of all management practices and/or fume control methods in place at the time of the opacity exceedence;


(D) A list and description of all management practices and/or fume control methods currently employed for the welding affected source;


(E) A description of additional management practices and/or fume control methods to be implemented pursuant to paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section, and the projected date of implementation; and


(F) Any revisions to a Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must contain copies of all previous plan entries, pursuant to paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(D) and (E) of this section.


(ii) The Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan must be updated annually to contain current information, as required by paragraphs (f)(8)(i)(A) through (C) of this section, and submitted with your annual certification and compliance report, according to the requirements of § 63.11519(b)(1), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”


(iii) You must maintain a copy of the current Site-Specific Welding Emissions Management Plan in your records in a readily-accessible location for inspector review, in accordance with the requirements in § 63.11519(c)(12), “Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.”




