# § 61.4   Definitions and use of terms.

For the purpose of this part—


(a) *The Act* means the War Hazards Compensation Act, 42 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.,* as amended.


(b) *Office* or *OWCP* means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Employment Standards Administration, United States Department of Labor.


(c) *Contractor with the United States* includes any contractor, subcontractor or subordinate subcontractor.


(d) *Carrier* means any payer of benefits for which reimbursement is requested under the Act, and includes insurance carriers, self-insured employers and compensation funds.


(e) *War-risk hazard* means any hazard arising during a war in which the United States is engaged; during an armed conflict in which the United States is engaged, whether or not war has been declared; or during a war or armed conflict between military forces of any origin, occurring within any country in which a person covered by the Act is serving; from—


(1) The discharge of any missile (including liquids and gas) or the use of any weapon, explosive, or other noxious thing by a hostile force or person or in combating an attack or an imagined attack by a hostile force or person;


(2) Action of a hostile force or person, including rebellion or insurrection against the United States or any of its allies;


(3) The discharge or explosion of munitions intended for use in connection with a war or armed conflict with a hostile force or person (except with respect to employees of a manufacturer, processor, or transporter of munitions during the manufacture, processing, or transporting of munitions, or while stored on the premises of the manufacturer, processor, or transporter);


(4) The collision of vessels in convoy or the operation of vessels or aircraft without running lights or without other customary peacetime aids to navigation; or


(5) The operation of vessels or aircraft in a zone of hostilities or engaged in war activities.


(f) *Hostile force or person* means any nation, any subject of a foreign nation, or any other person serving a foreign nation—


(1) Engaged in a war against the United States or any of its allies;


(2) Engaged in armed conflict, whether or not war has been declared, against the United States or any of its allies; or


(3) Engaged in a war or armed conflict between military forces of any origin in any country in which a person covered by the Act is serving.


(g) *Allies* means any nation with which the United States is engaged in a common military effort or with which the United States has entered into a common defensive military alliance.


(h) *War activities* includes activities directly relating to military operations.


(i) *Continental United States* means the States and the District of Columbia.


(j) *Injury* means injury resulting from a war-risk hazard, as defined in this section, whether or not such injury occurred in the course of the person's employment, and includes any disease proximately resulting from a war-risk hazard.


(k) *Death* means death resulting from an injury, as defined in this section.


(l) The terms *compensation, physician,* and *medical, surgical, and hospital services and supplies* when used in subparts D and E are construed and applied as defined in the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 8101 *et seq.*).


(m) The terms *disability, wages, child, grandchild, brother, sister, parent, widow, widower, student, adoption* or *adopted* are construed and applied as defined in the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended (35 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).




