# § 1.861-11   Special rules for allocating and apportioning interest expense of an affiliated group of corporations.

(a) *In general.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-11T(a).


(b) *Scope of application*—(1) *Application of section 864(e)(1) and (5) (concerning the definition and treatment of affiliated groups).* Section 864(e)(1) and (5) and the portions of this section implementing section 864(e)(1) and (5) apply to the computation of foreign source taxable income for purposes of section 904 (relating to various limitations on the foreign tax credit). Section 864(e)(1) and (5) and the portions of this section implementing section 864(e)(1) and (5) also apply in connection with section 907 to determine reductions in the amount allowed as a foreign tax credit under section 901. Section 864(e)(1) and (5) and the portions of this section implementing section 864(e)(1) and (5) also apply to the computation of the combined taxable income of the related supplier and a foreign sales corporation (FSC) (under sections 921 through 927) as well as the combined taxable income of the related supplier and a domestic international sales corporation (DISC) (under sections 991 through 997).


(2) *Nonapplication of section 864(e)(1) and (5) (concerning the definition and treatment of affiliated groups).* For further guidance, see § 1.861-11T(b)(2).


(c) *General rule for affiliated corporations.* For further guidance, see § 1.861-11T(c).


(d) *Definition of affiliated group*—(1) *General rule.* For purposes of this section, in general, the term *affiliated group* has the same meaning as is given that term by section 1504. Section 1504(a) defines an affiliated group as one or more chains of includible corporations connected through 80-percent stock ownership with a common parent corporation which is an includible corporation (as defined in section 1504(b)). In the case of a corporation that either becomes or ceases to be a member of the group during the course of the corporation's taxable year, only the interest expense incurred by the group member during the period of membership shall be allocated and apportioned as if all members of the group were a single corporation. In this regard, assets held during the period of membership shall be taken into account. Other interest expense incurred by the group member during its taxable year but not during the period of membership shall be allocated and apportioned without regard to the other members of the group.


(2) [Reserved]


(d)(3)-(6)(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance see § 1.861-11T(d)(3) through (6)(i).


(ii) Any foreign corporation if more than 50 percent of the gross income of such foreign corporation for the taxable year is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and at least 80 percent of either the vote or value of all outstanding stock of such foreign corporation is owned directly or indirectly by members of the affiliated group (determined with regard to this sentence). This paragraph (d)(6)(ii) applies to taxable years beginning on or after *July 16, 2014.* See 26 CFR 1.861-11T(d)(6)(ii) (revised as of April 1, 2014) for rules applicable to taxable years beginning after August 10, 2010, and before *July 16, 2014.* See 26 CFR 1.861-11T(d)(6)(ii) (revised as of April 1, 2010) for rules applicable to taxable years beginning on or before August 10, 2010.


(7) *Special rules for the application of § 1.861-11T(d)(6).* The attribution rules of section 1563(e) and the regulations under that section shall apply in determining indirect ownership under § 1.861-11T(d)(6). The Commissioner shall have the authority to disregard trusts, partnerships, and pass-through entities that break affiliated status. Corporations described in § 1.861-11T(d)(6) shall be considered to constitute members of an affiliated group that does not file a consolidated return and shall therefore be subject to the limitations imposed under § 1.861-11T(g). The affiliated group filing a consolidated return shall be considered to constitute a single corporation for purposes of applying the rules of § 1.861-11T(g). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989, § 1.861-11T(d)(6)(i) shall not apply in determining foreign source alternative minimum taxable income within each separate category and the alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit pursuant to section 59(a) to the extent that such application would result in the inclusion of a section 936 corporation within the affiliated group. This paragraph (d)(7) applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986. 


(e)-(g) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.861-11T(e) through (g).


(h) *Applicability dates.* This section applies to taxable years that both begin after December 31, 2017, and end on or after December 4, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 8916, 66 FR 273, Jan. 3, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9676, 79 FR 41426, July 16, 2014; T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69068, Dec. 17, 2019]




