# § 660.360   Recreational fishery—management measures.

(a) *General.* Federal recreational groundfish regulations are not intended to supersede any more restrictive state recreational groundfish regulations relating to federally-managed groundfish. The bag limits include fish taken in both state and Federal waters.


(b) *Gear restrictions.* The only types of fishing gear authorized for recreational fishing are hook-and-line and spear. Spears may be propelled by hand or by mechanical means. More fishery-specific gear restrictions may be required by state as noted in paragraph (c) of this section (e.g., California's recreational “other flatfish” fishery).


(1) All vessels participating in the groundfish recreational fishery seaward of California, Oregon, or Washington must carry on board one functional descending device as defined at § 660.351. The descending device must be available for immediate use and be available to present to an enforcement officer upon request.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *State-specific recreational fishery management measures.* Federal recreational groundfish regulations are not intended to supersede any more restrictive State recreational groundfish regulations relating to federally-managed groundfish. Off the coast of Washington, Oregon, and California, boat limits apply, whereby each fisher aboard a vessel may continue to use angling gear until the combined daily limits of groundfish for all licensed and juvenile anglers aboard has been attained (additional state restrictions on boat limits may apply).


(1) *Washington.* For each person engaged in recreational fishing off the coast of Washington, the groundfish bag limit is nine groundfish per day, including rockfish, cabezon, and lingcod. Within the groundfish bag limit, there are sub-limits for rockfish, lingcod, and cabezon outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section. In addition to the groundfish bag limit of nine, there will be a flatfish limit of five fish, not to be counted towards the groundfish bag limit but in addition to it. The recreational groundfish fishery will open the second Saturday in March through the third Saturday in October for all species. In the Pacific halibut fisheries, retention of groundfish is governed in part by annual management measures for Pacific halibut fisheries, which are published in the _Federal Register._ The following seasons, closed areas, sub-limits, and size limits apply:


(i) *Recreational groundfish conservation areas off Washington*—(A) *North coast recreational yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* Recreational fishing for groundfish and halibut is prohibited within the North Coast Recreational Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA). It is unlawful for recreational fishing vessels to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with recreational gear within the North Coast Recreational YRCA. A vessel fishing in the North Coast Recreational YRCA may not be in possession of any groundfish. Recreational vessels may transit through the North Coast Recreational YRCA with or without groundfish on board. The North Coast Recreational YRCA is defined by latitude and longitude coordinates specified at § 660.70, subpart C.


(B) *South coast recreational yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* Recreational fishing for groundfish and halibut is allowed within the South Coast Recreational YRCA. The South Coast Recreational YRCA is defined by latitude and longitude coordinates specified at § 660.70, subpart C.


(C) *Westport offshore recreational yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* Recreational fishing for groundfish and halibut is allowed within the Westport Offshore Recreational YRCA. The Westport Offshore Recreational YRCA is defined by latitude and longitude coordinates specified at § 660.70, subpart C.


(D) *Recreational rockfish conservation area.* Fishing for groundfish with recreational gear is prohibited within the recreational RCA unless otherwise stated. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with recreational gear within the recreational RCA unless otherwise stated. A vessel fishing in the recreational RCA may not be in possession of any groundfish unless otherwise stated. [For example, if a vessel participates in the recreational salmon fishery within the RCA, the vessel cannot be in possession of groundfish while in the RCA. The vessel may, however, on the same trip fish for and retain groundfish shoreward of the RCA on the return trip to port.] Coordinates approximating boundary lines at the 10-fm (18-m) through 100-fm (183-m) depth contours can be found at § 660.71 through § 660.73. The Washington recreational fishing season structure is as follows:


(ii) *Rockfish.* In areas of the EEZ seaward of Washington (Washington Marine Areas 1-4) that are open to recreational groundfish fishing, there is a seven rockfish per day bag limit, including a sub-bag limit of five canary rockfish. Taking and retaining yelloweye rockfish is prohibited in all Marine Areas.


(iii) *Cabezon.* In areas of the EEZ seaward of Washington (Washington Marine Areas 1-4) that are open to recreational groundfish fishing, there is a one cabezon per day bag limit.


(iv) *Lingcod.* In areas of the EEZ seaward of Washington (Washington Marine Areas 1-4) that are open to recreational groundfish fishing and when the recreational season for lingcod is open, there is a bag limit of two lingcod per day. The recreational fishing seasons for lingcod is open from the second Saturday in March through the third Saturday in October.


(2) *Oregon*—(i) *Recreational groundfish conservation areas off Oregon*—(A) *Stonewall Bank yelloweye rockfish conservation area.* Recreational fishing for groundfish and halibut is prohibited within the Stonewall Bank YRCA. It is unlawful for recreational fishing vessels to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with recreational gear within the Stonewall Bank YRCA. A vessel fishing in the Stonewall Bank YRCA may not be in possession of any groundfish. Recreational vessels may transit through the Stonewall Bank YRCA with or without groundfish on board. The Stonewall Bank YRCA, and two possible expansions that are available through inseason adjustment, are defined by latitude and longitude coordinates specified at § 660.70, subpart C.


(B) *Recreational rockfish conservation area (RCA).* Fishing for groundfish with recreational gear is prohibited within the recreational RCA, a type of closed area or groundfish conservation area, except with long-leader gear (as defined at § 660.351). It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land groundfish taken with recreational gear within the recreational RCA, except with long-leader gear (as defined at § 660.351). A vessel fishing in the recreational RCA may not be in possession of any groundfish unless otherwise stated. [For example, if a vessel fishes in the recreational salmon fishery within the recreational RCA, the vessel cannot be in possession of groundfish while within the recreational RCA. The vessel may, however, on the same trip fish for and retain groundfish shoreward of the recreational RCA on the return trip to port.] Off Oregon, from January 1 through December 31, recreational fishing for groundfish is allowed in all depths. Coordinates approximating boundary lines at the 10-fm (18-m) through 100-fm (183-m) depth contours can be found at § 660.71 through § 660.73.


(C) *Essential fish habitat conservation areas.* The Essential Fish Habitat Conservation Areas (EFHCAs) are closed areas, defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates at §§ 660.76 through 660.79, where specified types of fishing are prohibited. Prohibitions applying to specific EFHCAs are found at § 660.12.


(ii) *Seasons.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is open from January 1 through December 31, subject to the closed areas described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) *Bag limits, size limits.* For each person engaged in recreational fishing off the coast of Oregon, the following bag limits apply:


(A) *Marine fish.* The bag limit is 10 marine fish per day, which includes rockfish, kelp greenling, cabezon, and other groundfish species; except the daily bag limit in the long-leader gear fishery is 12 fish per day with a sub-bag limit of 5 fish per day for canary rockfish. The bag limit of marine fish excludes Pacific halibut, salmonids, tuna, perch species, sturgeon, sanddabs, flatfish, lingcod, striped bass, hybrid bass, offshore pelagic species, and baitfish (*e.g.,* herring, smelt, anchovies, and sardines). The minimum size for cabezon retained in the Oregon recreational fishery is 16 in (41 cm) total length.


(B) *Lingcod.* There is a three fish limit per day. The minimum size for lingcod retained in the Oregon recreational fishery is 22 in (56 cm) total length. For vessels using long-leader gear (as defined in § 660.351) and fishing inside the Recreational RCA, possession of lingcod is prohibited.


(C) *Flatfish.* There is a 25 fish limit per day for all flatfish, excluding Pacific halibut, but including all soles, flounders, and Pacific sanddabs.


(D) *Sablefish.* There is a 10 fish limit per day.


(E) *In the Pacific halibut fisheries.* Retention of groundfish is governed in part by annual management measures for Pacific halibut fisheries, which are published in the _Federal Register._ Between the Columbia River and Humbug Mountain, during days open to the “all-depth” sport halibut fisheries, when Pacific halibut are onboard the vessel, no groundfish, except sablefish, Pacific cod, and other species of flatfish (sole, flounder, sanddab), may be taken and retained, possessed or landed, except with long-leader gear (as defined at § 660.351). “All-depth” season days are established in the annual management measures for Pacific halibut fisheries, which are published in the _Federal Register_ and are announced on the NMFS Pacific halibut hotline, 1-800-662-9825.


(F) Taking and retaining yelloweye rockfish is prohibited at all times and in all areas.




(3) *California.* Seaward of California, for groundfish species not specifically mentioned in this paragraph, fishers are subject to the overall 20-fish bag limit for all species of finfish, of which no more than 10 fish of any one species may be taken or possessed by any one person. Petrale sole, Pacific sanddab, and starry flounder are not subject to a bag limit. Recreational spearfishing for all federally-managed groundfish, is exempt from closed areas and seasons, consistent with Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations. This exemption applies only to recreational vessels and divers provided no other fishing gear, except spearfishing gear, is on board the vessel. California state law may provide regulations similar to Federal regulations for kelp greenlings. Retention of cowcod, yelloweye rockfish, quillback rockfish, and bronzespotted rockfish, is prohibited in the recreational fishery seaward of California all year in all areas. Retention of species or species groups for which the season is closed is prohibited in the recreational fishery seaward of California all year in all areas, unless otherwise authorized in this section. For each person engaged in recreational fishing in the EEZ seaward of California, the following closed areas, seasons, bag limits, and size limits apply:


(i) *Recreational groundfish conservation areas off California.* A Groundfish Conservation Area (GCA), a type of closed area, is a geographic area defined by coordinates expressed in degrees latitude and longitude. The following GCAs apply to participants in California's recreational fishery.


(A) *Recreational rockfish conservation areas.* The Recreational RCAs are areas that are closed to recreational fishing for certain groundfish. Fishing for the California rockfish, cabezon, greenling complex (RCG Complex), as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, and lingcod with recreational gear, is prohibited within the Recreational RCA. It is unlawful to take and retain, possess, or land the RCG Complex and lingcod taken with recreational gear within the Recreational RCA, unless otherwise authorized in this section. A vessel fishing in the Recreational RCA may not be in possession of any species prohibited by the restrictions that apply within the Recreational RCA. For example, if a vessel fishes in the recreational salmon fishery within the Recreational RCA, the vessel cannot be in possession of the RCG Complex and lingcod while in the Recreational RCA. The vessel may, however, on the same trip fish for and retain rockfish shoreward of the Recreational RCA on the return trip to port. If the season is closed for a species or species group, fishing for that species or species group is prohibited both within the Recreational RCA and outside of the Recreational RCA, unless otherwise authorized in this section. In times and areas where a Recreational RCA is closed shoreward of a Recreational RCA line (*i.e.,* when an “off-shore only” fishery is active in that management area) vessels may stop, anchor in, or transit through waters shoreward of the Recreational RCA line so long as they do not have any hook-and-line fishing gear in the water. Coordinates approximating boundary lines at the 30 fm (55 m) through 100 fm (183 m) depth contours can be found at §§ 660.71 through 660.73. The recreational fishing season structure and RCA depth boundaries seaward of California by management area and month are as follows:


(*1*) Between 42° N lat. (California/Oregon border) and 40°10′ N lat. (Northern Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*2*) Between 40°10′ N lat. and 38°57.50′ N lat. (Mendocino Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*3*) Between 38°57.50′ N lat. and 37°11′ N lat. (San Francisco Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31. Closures around Cordell Bank (see paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section) also apply in this area.


(*4*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 34°27′ N lat. (Central Management Area),


(*i*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 36° N lat., recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*ii*) Between 36° N lat. and 34°27′ N lat., recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from January 1 through March 31, is open at all depths from April 1 through June 30; is prohibited in the EEZ seaward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from July 1 through September 30, and is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through December 31.


(*5*) South of 34°27′ N lat. (Southern Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from January 1 through March 31, open at all depths from April 1 through June 30; is prohibited in the EEZ seaward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from July 1 through September 30, and is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through December 31.


(B) *Groundfish exclusion areas (GEAs).* The GEAs are closed areas in the Southern California Bight, defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates (specified at § 660.70) where commercial and recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited. It is unlawful to fish for, take and retain, possess (except for the purpose of continuous transit) or land groundfish within the GEAs. Recreational fishing gear for targeting groundfish may not be deployed while transiting through a GEA. If fishing for non-groundfish species within a GEA, then no groundfish may be on board the vessel.


(C) *Cordell Bank.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited in waters less than 100 fm (183 m) around Cordell Bank as defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, except that recreational fishing for petrale sole, starry flounder, and “Other Flatfish” is permitted around Cordell Bank as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.


(D) *Point St. George Yelloweye Rockfish Conservation Area (YRCA).* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited within the Point St. George YRCA, as defined by latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment.


(E) *South reef YRCA.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited within the South Reef YRCA, as defined by latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment.


(F) *Reading Rock YRCA.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited within the Reading Rock YRCA, as defined by latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment.


(G) *Point Delgada (North) YRCA.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited within the Point Delgada (North) YRCA, as defined by latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment.


(H) *Point Delgada (South) YRCA.* Recreational fishing for groundfish is prohibited within the Point Delgada (South) YRCA, as defined by latitude and longitude coordinates at § 660.70, subpart C, on dates when the closure is in effect. The closure is not in effect at this time. This closure may be imposed through inseason adjustment.


(I) *Essential fish habitat conservation areas.* The Essential Fish Habitat Conservation Areas (EFHCAs) are closed areas, defined by specific latitude and longitude coordinates at §§ 660.76 through 660.79, subpart C where specified types of fishing are prohibited. Prohibitions applying to specific EFHCAs are found at § 660.12, subpart C.


(ii) *RCG complex.* The California rockfish, cabezon, greenling complex (RCG Complex) includes all rockfish, kelp greenling, rock greenling, and cabezon. This category does not include California scorpionfish, also known as “sculpin”.


(A) *Seasons.* When recreational fishing for the RCG complex is open, it is permitted only outside of the recreational RCAs described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(*1*) Between 42° N lat. (California/Oregon border) and 40°10′ N lat. (Northern Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*2*) Between 40°10′ N lat. and 38°57.50′ N lat. (Mendocino Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*3*) Between 38°57.50′ N lat. and 37°11′ N lat. (San Francisco Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31. Closures around Cordell Bank (see paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section) also apply in this area.


(*4*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 34°27′ N lat. (Central Management Area),


(*i*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 36° N lat., recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from April 1 through April 30, is closed in the EEZ from May 1 to September 30, is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through October 31, closed in the EEZ from November 1 through November 30, and prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of the boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from December 1 through December 31.


(*ii*) Between 36° N lat. and 34°27′ N lat., recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from January 1 through March 31, is open at all depths from April 1 through June 30; is prohibited in the EEZ seaward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from July 1 through September 30, and is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through December 31.


(*5*) South of 34°27′ N lat. (Southern Management Area), recreational fishing for the RCG Complex and lingcod is closed from January 1 through March 31, open at all depths from April 1 through June 30; is prohibited in the EEZ seaward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from July 1 through September 30, and is prohibited in the EEZ shoreward of a boundary line approximating the 50 fm (91 m) depth contour along the mainland coast and along islands and offshore seamounts from October 1 through December 31.


(B) *Bag limits, hook limits.* In times and areas when the recreational season for the RCG Complex is open, there is a limit of two hooks and one line when fishing for the RCG complex. The bag limit is 10 RCG Complex fish per day coastwide, with a sub-bag limit of 4 fish for vermilion rockfish between 42° N lat. and 40°10 N lat., a sub-bag limit of 2 fish for vermilion/sunset rockfish south of 40°10 N lat., and 1 fish for copper rockfish. These sub-bag limits count towards the bag limit for the RCG Complex and are not in addition to that limit. Retention of yelloweye rockfish, bronzespotted rockfish, quillback rockfish, and cowcod is prohibited. Multi-day limits are authorized by a valid permit issued by California and must not exceed the daily limit multiplied by the value of days in the fishing trip.


(C) *Dressing/fileting.* Each RCG Complex filet must have the entire skin attached.


(iii) *Lingcod*—(A) *Seasons.* When recreational fishing for lingcod is open, it is permitted only outside of the recreational RCAs described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(*1*) Between 42° N lat. (California/Oregon border) and 40°10′ N lat. (Northern Management Area), recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through April 30, October 1 through October 31, and December 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is closed from January 1 through March 31, May 1 through September 30, and November 1 through November 30).


(*2*) Between 40°10′ N lat. and 38°57.50′ N lat. (Mendocino Management Area), recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through April 30, October 1 through October 31, and December 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is closed from January 1 through March 31, May 1 through September 30, and November 1 through November 30).


(*3*) Between 38°57.50′ N lat. and 37°11′ N lat. (San Francisco Management Area), recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through April 30, October 1 through October 31, and December 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is closed from January 1 through March 31, May 1 through September 30, and November 1 through November 30).


(*4*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 34°27′ N lat. (Central Management Area),


(*i*) Between 37°11′ N lat. and 36° N lat., recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through April 30, October 1 through October 31, and December 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for lingcod is closed in the EEZ from January 1 through March 31, May 1 through September 30, and November 1 through November 30).


(*ii*) Between 36° N lat. and 34°27′ N lat., recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for the lingcod in the EEZ is closed from January 1 through March 31).


(*5*) South of 34°27′ N lat. (Southern Management Area), recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is open from April 1 through December 31 (*i.e.,* recreational fishing for lingcod in the EEZ is closed from January 1 through March 31).


(B) *Bag limits, hook limits.* In times and areas when the recreational season for lingcod is open, there is a limit of 2 hooks and 1 line when fishing for lingcod. Multi-day limits are authorized by a valid permit issued by California and must not exceed the daily limit multiplied by the number of days in the fishing trip.


(*1*) The bag limit between 42° N lat. (California/Oregon border) and 40°10′ N lat. (Northern Management Area) is 2 lingcod per day.


(*2*) The bag limit between 40°10′ N lat. and the U.S. border with Mexico (Mendocino Management Area, San Francisco Management Area, Central Management Area, and Southern Management Area) is 2 lingcod per day.


(C) *Size limits.* Lingcod may be no smaller than 22 in (56 cm) total length.


(D) *Dressing/fileting.* Lingcod filets may be no smaller than 14 in (36 cm) in length. Each lingcod filet must have the entire skin attached.


(iv) *“Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder.* “Other Flatfish” are defined at § 660.11, and include butter sole, curlfin sole, flathead sole, Pacific sanddab, rex sole, rock sole, and sand sole.


(A) *Seasons.* Recreational fishing for “Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder is open from January 1 through December 31. When recreational fishing for “Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder is open, it is permitted both outside and within the recreational RCAs described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(B) *Bag limits, hook limits.* In times and areas where the recreational season for “Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder is open, “Other Flatfish” are subject to the overall 20-fish bag limit for all species of finfish, of which there may be no more than 10 fish of any one species; there is no daily bag limit for petrale sole, starry flounder and Pacific sanddab.


(C) *Size limits.* There are no size limits for “Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder.


(D) *Dressing/Filleting.* “Other Flatfish,” petrale sole, and starry flounder may be filleted at sea. Fillets may be of any size, but must bear intact a one-inch (2.6 cm) square patch of skin.


(v) *California scorpionfish.* California scorpionfish predominately occur south of 40°10′ N. lat.


(A) *Seasons.* When recreational fishing for California scorpionfish is open, it is permitted both outside of and within the recreational RCAs described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. Recreational fishing for California scorpionfish is open from January 1 through December 31.


(B) *Bag limits, hook limits.* South of 40°10.00′ N lat., in times and areas where the recreational season for California scorpionfish is open there is a limit of 2 hooks and 1 line, the bag limit is 5 California scorpionfish per day. California scorpionfish do not count against the 10 RCG Complex fish per day limit. Multi-day limits are authorized by a valid permit issued by California and must not exceed the daily limit multiplied by the number of days in the fishing trip.


(C) *Dressing/fileting.* Each California scorpionfish filet must have the entire skin attached.


(d) *Salmon bycatch.* Recreational fisheries that are not accounted for within pre-season salmon modeling may be closed through automatic action at § 660.60(d)(1)(v) and (vi).



---

[N] [75 FR 60995, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 11392, Mar. 2, 2011; 76 FR 27559, May 11, 2011; 76 FR 54714, Sept. 2, 2011; 76 FR 79133, Dec. 21, 2011; 77 FR 12504, Mar. 1, 2012; 77 FR 55158, Sept. 7, 2012; 77 FR 63761, Oct. 17, 2012; 78 FR 642, Jan. 3, 2013; 78 FR 26279, May 6, 2013; 80 FR 12601, Mar. 10, 2015; 80 FR 61766, Oct. 14, 2015; 82 FR 9668, Feb. 7, 2017; 82 FR 21951, May 11, 2017; 82 FR 48666, Oct. 19, 2017; 82 FR 60570, Dec. 21, 2017; 83 FR 13431, Mar. 29, 2018; 83 FR 16008, Apr. 13, 2018; 83 FR 48728, Sept. 27, 2018; 83 FR 64014, Dec. 12, 2018; 84 FR 25720, June 4, 2019; 85 FR 79926, Dec. 11, 2020; 86 FR 14386, Mar. 16, 2021; 86 FR 72873, Dec. 23, 2021; 87 FR 77033, Dec. 16, 2022; 88 FR 4919, Jan. 26, 2023; 88 FR 12868, Mar. 1, 2023; 88 FR 67665, Oct. 2, 2023; 88 FR 83363, Nov. 29, 2023; 88 FR 83859, Dec. 1, 2023; 89 FR 22350, 22355, Apr. 1, 2024; 89 FR 67327, Aug. 20, 2024; 89 FR 101541, Dec. 16, 2024]










