# ยง 540.21   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


(a) *Person* includes individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, and other legal entities existing under or authorized by the laws of the United States or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any territory or possession of the United States, or the laws of any foreign country.


(b) *Vessel* means any commercial vessel having berth or stateroom accommodations for 50 or more passengers and embarking passengers at U.S. ports.


(c) *Commission* means the Federal Maritime Commission.


(d) *United States* includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any territory or possession of the United States.


(e) *Berth or stateroom accommodations* or *passenger accommodations* includes all temporary and all permanent passenger sleeping facilities.


(f) *Certificate (Casualty)* means a Certificate of Financial Responsibility to Meet Liability Incurred for Death or Injury to Passengers or Other Persons on Voyages issued pursuant to this subpart.


(g) *Voyage* means voyage of a vessel to or from U.S. ports.


(h) *Insurer* means any insurance company, underwriter, corporation or association of underwriters, ship owners' protection and indemnity association, or other insurer acceptable to the Commission.


(i) *Evidence of insurance* means a policy, certificate of insurance, cover note, or other evidence of coverage acceptable to the Commission.


(j) For the purpose of determining compliance with ยง 540.22, *passengers embarking at United States ports* means any persons, not necessary to the business, operation, or navigation of a vessel, whether holding a ticket or not, who board a vessel at a port or place in the United States and are carried by the vessel on a voyage from that port or place.




