# ยง 900.81   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the terms as defined in the act shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, unless the context otherwise requires:


(a) The term *Act* means Public Act No. 10, 73 Congress (48 Stat. 31) as amended and as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 246), as amended.


(b) The term *Department* means the United States Department of Agriculture.


(c) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.


(d) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in his stead.


(e) The term *proceeding* means a proceeding before the Secretary arising under sections 8a, 8b(b), 8c(14), 8e, 10(c) and 10(h).


(f) The term *hearing* means that part of the proceeding which involves the submission of evidence.


(g) The term *marketing agreement* means any marketing agreement or any amendment thereto which may be entered into pursuant to section 8b of the act.


(h) The term *marketing order* means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to section 8c of the act, and after notice and hearing as required by said section.


(i) The term *handler* means any person who, by the terms of a marketing order or marketing agreement, is subject thereto, or to whom a marketing order or marketing agreement is sought to be made applicable.


(j) The term *importer* means any person who, by the terms of section 8e of the act, is subject thereto.


(k) The term *person* means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other business unit.




