# ยง 406.147   Notice of hearing.

(a) *Notice.* The administrative law judge must give each party at least 60 days notice of the date, time, and location of the hearing. 


(b) *Date, time, and location of the hearing.* The administrative law judge must set a reasonable date, time, and location for the hearing within the United States. The administrative law judge must consider the need for discovery and any joint procedural or discovery schedule submitted by the parties when determining the hearing date. The administrative law judge must give due regard to the convenience of the parties, the location where the majority of the witnesses reside or work, and whether a scheduled air carrier serves the location. 


(c) *Earlier hearing.* With the consent of the administrative law judge, the parties may agree to hold the hearing on an earlier date than the date specified in the notice of hearing. 


(d) *Space hearing consolidated with aviation hearing under 14 CFR part 13 subpart G.* With the consent of the administrative law judge, the parties may agree to hold the hearing, or parts of the hearing, together with a hearing under 14 CFR part 13 subpart G if the cases involve some common issues of fact. If the hearings are consolidated, the administrative law judge may issue a consolidated initial decision covering both cases. The Administrator will serve as the FAA decisionmaker on appeal for both cases and will issue a consolidated decision, with the Associate Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation serving as an advisor to the FAA decisionmaker. 




