# ยง 515.16   Revocation or suspension of license.

(a) *Grounds.* Except for the automatic revocation for termination of proof of financial responsibility under ยง 515.26, a license may be revoked or suspended after notice and an opportunity for a hearing under the procedures of ยง 515.17. The notice of revocation or suspension will provide, in detail, a statement of the facts supporting the action. The licensee may request a hearing on the proposed revocation or suspension by submitting to the Commission's Secretary, within twenty (20) days of the date of the notice, a statement of reasons why the license should not be revoked or suspended. Such hearing shall be provided pursuant to the procedures contained in ยง 515.17. Otherwise, the action regarding the license will become effective. A license may be revoked or suspended for any of the following reasons:


(1) Violation of any provision of the Act, or any other statute or Commission order or regulation related to carrying on the business of an ocean transportation intermediary;


(2) Failure to respond to any lawful order or inquiry by the Commission;


(3) Making a materially false or misleading statement to the Commission in connection with an application for a license or an amendment to an existing license;


(4) A Commission determination that the licensee is not qualified to render intermediary services; or


(5) Failure to honor the licensee's financial obligations to the Commission.


(b) *Notice.* The Commission shall publish on the Commission's Web site *www.fmc.gov* notice of each revocation and suspension.



---

[N] [80 FR 68734, Nov. 5, 2015]




