# § 721.11754   Alkanedioic acid, polymer with cycloalkyl dimethanol, alkyl and cycloalkyl diisocyanates, dimethyl-alkanediol, dihydroxyalkanoic acid methylenebis[isocyanatocyclohexane], hydroxyethyl acrylate- and polyalkyl glycol monoalkyl ether blocked (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkanedioic acid, polymer with cycloalkyl dimethanol, alkyl and cycloalkyl diisocyanates, dimethyl-alkanediol, dihydroxyalkanoic acid methylenebis[isocyanatocyclohexane], hydroxyethyl acrylate- and polyalkyl glycol monoalkyl ether blocked (PMN P-18-301) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(3) and (7), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1) and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; skin sensitization; eye irritation; respiratory sensitization. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [88 FR 87351, Dec. 18, 2023]






