# ยง 21.82   Completing the plan under Chapter 31.

(a) *Serious employment handicap.* Each plan for a veteran with a serious employment handicap shall provide for completion of the program provided by the plan under Chapter 31. The provisions of ยง 21.70 and ยง 21.78(c) are designed to enable a veteran with a serious employment handicap to pursue and complete a rehabilitation plan under Department of Veterans Affairs auspices. These provisions shall be used as necessary to accomplish the goals of the plan.


(b) *Employment handicap.* A plan for a veteran with an employment handicap that is not a serious employment handicap shall require that the program be completed within 48 months, if the veteran is not eligible for an extension as provided in ยง 21.78. When the program provided by the plan cannot be completed under Chapter 31 because of limitations imposed by the veteran's termination date or months of remaining entitlement, realistic, comprehensive and detailed arrangements must be made which will enable the veteran to successfully complete training under other auspices. If an arrangement cannot be made which meets these requirements, the long-range vocational goal of the veteran must be reevaluated, and another vocational goal selected which can be completed using the veteran's remaining Chapter 31 resources.


(c) *Employment assistance when training is not completed under Chapter 31.* A plan for employment assistance may be implemented even though the veteran's training has not been or will not be completed under Chapter 31.


