# § 351.408   Calculation of normal value of merchandise from nonmarket economy countries.

(a) *Introduction.* In identifying dumping from a nonmarket economy country, the Secretary normally will calculate normal value by valuing the nonmarket economy producers' factors of production in a market economy country. (*See* section 773(c) of the Act.) This section clarifies when and how this special methodology for nonmarket economies will be applied.




(b) *Selecting surrogate countries*—(1) *Determining comparable economies.* The Secretary is directed by sections 773(c)(2)(B) and 773(c)(4)(A) of the Act to select surrogate countries which are at a level of economic development comparable to that of the nonmarket economy country at issue.


(i) *Measuring economic comparability.* In determining whether market economy countries are at a level of economic development comparable to the nonmarket economy at issue, the Secretary will place primary emphasis on *per capita* gross domestic product (GDP).


(ii) *Additional considerations in determining economic comparability.* When the Secretary determines that such an analysis is warranted, the Secretary may consider additional factors in determining whether certain market economy countries are at a level of economic development comparable to the nonmarket economy at issue. If the Secretary considers additional factors in its analysis, the Secretary will identify those factors and provide the reason it considered those factors along with the list of comparable market economies issued under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.


(iii) *Annual listing of comparable economies.* On an annual basis, the Secretary will determine market economies comparable to individual nonmarket economies and list those market economies on the Secretary's website.


(2) *Determining significant producers of comparable merchandise.* In selecting a surrogate country from those countries which the Secretary determines are economically comparable, the Secretary will consider, in accordance with section 773(c)(2)(A) and (c)(4)(B) of the Act, those countries that are significant producers of merchandise comparable to the subject merchandise.


(3) *Selecting between surrogate countries which are economically comparable and significant producers of comparable merchandise.* If more than one economically comparable country produces comparable merchandise, the Secretary will consider the totality of the information on the record in selecting a surrogate country. Among the criteria the Secretary may consider in selecting a surrogate country are the availability, accessibility, and quality of data from those countries and the similarity of products manufactured in the potential surrogate countries in comparison to the subject merchandise.


(c) *Valuation of Factors of Production.* For purposes of valuing the factors of production, general expenses, profit, and the cost of containers, coverings, and other expenses (referred to collectively as “factors”) under section 773(c)(1) of the Act the following rules will apply:


(1) *Information used to value factors.* The Secretary normally will use publicly available information to value factors. However, where a factor is produced in one or more market economy countries, purchased from one or more market economy suppliers and paid for in market economy currency, the Secretary normally will use the price(s) paid to the market economy supplier(s) if substantially all of the total volume of the factor is purchased from the market economy supplier(s). For purposes of this provision, the Secretary defines the term “substantially all” to be 85 percent or more of the total volume purchased of the factor used in the production of subject merchandise. In those instances where less than substantially all of the total volume of the factor is produced in one or more market economy countries and purchased from one or more market economy suppliers, the Secretary normally will weight-average the actual price(s) paid for the market economy portion and the surrogate value for the nonmarket economy portion by their respective quantities.


(2) *Valuation in a single country.* The Secretary normally will value all factors in a single surrogate country.


(3) *Manufacturing overhead, general expenses, and profit.* For manufacturing overhead, general expenses, and profit, the Secretary normally will use non-proprietary information gathered from producers of identical or comparable merchandise in the surrogate country.


(d) *A determination that certain surrogate value information is not otherwise appropriate*—(1) *In general.* Notwithstanding the factors considered under paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary may disregard a proposed market economy country value for consideration as a surrogate value if the Secretary determines that evidence on the record reflects that the use of such a value would be inappropriate.


(i) In accordance with section 773(c)(5), the Secretary may disregard a proposed surrogate value if the Secretary determines that the value is derived from a country that provides broadly available export subsidies, if particular instances of subsidization occurred with respect to that proposed surrogate value, or if that proposed surrogate value was subject to an antidumping order.


(ii) In addition, the Secretary may disregard a proposed surrogate value if the Secretary determines based on record evidence that the value is derived from a facility, party, industry, intra-country region or a country with weak, ineffective, or nonexistent property (including intellectual property), human rights, labor, or environmental protections.


(2) *Requirements to disregard a proposed surrogate value based on weak, ineffective, or nonexistent protections.* For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the Secretary will only consider disregarding a proposed market economy country value as a surrogate value of production if the Secretary determines the following:


(i) The proposed surrogate value at issue is for a significant input or labor;


(ii) The proposed surrogate value is derived from one country or an average of values from a limited number of countries; and


(iii) The information on the record supports a claim that the identified weak, ineffective, or nonexistent property (including intellectual property), human rights, labor, or environmental protections undermine the appropriateness of using that value as a surrogate value.


(3) *The use of a surrogate value located in a country which is not at a level of economic development comparable to that of the nonmarket economy.* If the Secretary determines, pursuant to this section, after reviewing all proposed values on the record derived from market economy countries which are at a level of economic development comparable to the nonmarket economy, that no such proposed value is appropriate to value a specific factor of production, the Secretary may use a value on the record derived from a market economy country which is not at a level of economic development comparable to that of the nonmarket economy country as a surrogate to value that specific factor of production.


(4) *The use of a surrogate value not located in a country which is a significant producer of comparable merchandise.* If the Secretary determines, pursuant to this section, after reviewing all proposed surrogate values on the record derived from market economy countries which are significant producers of merchandise comparable to the subject merchandise, that no such proposed value is appropriate to value a specific factor of production, the Secretary may use a value on the record derived from a market economy country which is not a significant producer of merchandise comparable to the subject merchandise as a surrogate to value that specific factor of production.



---

[N] [62 FR 27379, May 19, 1997, as amended at 78 FR 46804, Aug. 2, 2013; 88 FR 67080, Sept. 29, 2023; 89 FR 20837, Mar. 25, 2024; 89 FR 101765, Dec. 16, 2024]






