# ยง 3105.50   Consolidation of leases.

(a) Leases may be consolidated upon written request of the lessee filed with the proper BLM office. The request must identify each lease involved by serial number and justify the consolidation. Each request for a consolidation of leases must include the processing fee found in the fee schedule in ยง 3000.120 of this chapter.


(b) All parties holding any undivided interest in any lease involved in the consolidation must agree to enter into the same lease consolidation.


(c) Leases containing different types of lands (public domain lands vs. acquired lands), mixed fractional mineral interest, or provisions required by law that cannot be reconciled, will not be consolidated.


(d) Consolidation of leases will not exceed acreage limits of 2,560 acres for competitive leases and 10,240 acres for noncompetitive leases.


(e) The effective date, the anniversary date, and the primary term of the consolidated lease will be those of the oldest original lease included in the consolidation. The term of a consolidated lease may be extended beyond the primary lease term under subpart 3107.


(f) The highest royalty and rental rates of the each of the leases to be consolidated will apply to the consolidated lease.


(g) Lease stipulations and other terms and conditions of each original lease, except as noted in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, will continue to apply to that lease or any portion thereof regardless of the lease becoming a part of a consolidated lease.




