# § 983.256   Lease.

(a) *Tenant's legal capacity.* The tenant must have legal capacity to enter a lease under state and local law. “Legal capacity” means that the tenant is bound by the terms of the lease and may enforce the terms of the lease against the owner.


(b) *Form of lease.* (1) The tenant and the owner must enter a written lease for the unit. The lease must be executed by the owner and the tenant.


(2) If the owner uses a standard lease form for rental to unassisted tenants in the locality or the premises, the lease must be in such standard form, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. If the owner does not use a standard lease form for rental to unassisted tenants, the owner may use another form of lease, such as a PHA model lease.


(3) In all cases, the lease must include a HUD-required tenancy addendum. The tenancy addendum must include, word-for-word, all provisions required by HUD.


(4) The PHA may review the owner's lease form to determine if the lease complies with state and local law. The PHA may decline to approve the tenancy if the PHA determines that the lease does not comply with state or local law.


(c) *Required information.* The lease must specify all of the following:


(1) The names of the owner and the tenant;


(2) The unit rented (address, apartment number, if any, and any other information needed to identify the leased contract unit);


(3) The term of the lease (initial term and any provision for renewal);


(4) The amount of the tenant rent to owner. The tenant rent to owner is subject to change during the term of the lease in accordance with HUD requirements;


(5) A specification of what services, maintenance, equipment, and utilities are to be provided by the owner; and


(6) The amount of any charges for food, furniture, or supportive services.


(d) *Tenancy addendum.* (1) The tenancy addendum in the lease shall state:


(i) The program tenancy requirements (as specified in this part);


(ii) The composition of the household as approved by the PHA (names of family members and any PHA-approved live-in aide).


(2) All provisions in the HUD-required tenancy addendum must be included in the lease. The terms of the tenancy addendum shall prevail over other provisions of the lease.


(e) *Changes in lease.* (1) If the tenant and the owner agree to any change in the lease, such change must be in writing, and the owner must immediately give the PHA a copy of all such changes.


(2) The owner must notify the PHA in advance of any proposed change in lease requirements governing the allocation of tenant and owner responsibilities for utilities. Such changes may be made only if approved by the PHA and in accordance with the terms of the lease relating to its amendment. The PHA must redetermine reasonable rent, in accordance with § 983.303(c), based on any change in the allocation of responsibility for utilities between the owner and the tenant, and the redetermined reasonable rent shall be used in calculation of rent to owner from the effective date of the change.


(f) *Term of lease.* (1) The initial lease term must be for at least one year.


(2) The lease must provide for automatic renewal after the initial term of the lease. The lease may provide either:


(i) For automatic renewal for successive definite terms (e.g., month-to-month or year-to-year); or


(ii) For automatic indefinite extension of the lease term.


(3) The term of the lease terminates if any of the following occurs:


(i) The owner terminates the lease for good cause;


(ii) The tenant terminates the lease;


(iii) The owner and the tenant agree to terminate the lease;


(iv) The PHA terminates the HAP contract; or


(v) The PHA terminates assistance for the family.


(g) *Lease provisions governing absence from the unit.* The lease may specify a maximum period of family absence from the unit that may be shorter than the maximum period permitted by PHA policy. (PHA termination-of-assistance actions due to family absence from the unit are subject to 24 CFR 982.312, except that the unit is not terminated from the HAP contract if the family is absent for longer than the maximum period permitted.)



---

[N] [70 FR 59913, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 36168, June 25, 2014]












