# § 404.1620   General administrative requirements.

(a) The State will provide the organizational structure, qualified personnel, medical consultant services, and a quality assurance function sufficient to ensure that disability determinations are made accurately and promptly. We may impose specific administrative requirements in these areas and in those under “Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements” in order to establish uniform, national administrative practices or to correct the areas of deficiencies which may later cause the State to be substantially failing to comply with our regulations or other written guidelines. We will notify the State, in writing, of the administrative requirements being imposed and of any administrative deficiencies it is required to correct. We will allow the State 90 days from the date of this notice to make appropriate corrections. Once corrected, we will monitor the State's administrative practices for 180 days. If the State does not meet the requirements or correct all of the deficiencies, or, if some of the deficiencies recur, we may initiate procedures to determine if the State is substantially failing to follow our regulations or other written guidelines.


(b) The State is responsible for making accurate and prompt disability determinations.


(c) Each State agency will designate experienced disability examiners to handle claims we refer to it under § 404.1619(a).



---

[N] [46 FR 29204, May 29, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 11018, Mar. 14, 1991; 72 FR 51177, Sept. 6, 2007]




