# § 181.115   Intervention in importer's protest.

(a) *Conditional right to intervene.* An exporter or producer of merchandise does not have an independent right to protest an adverse marking decision. However, if an importer protests the adverse marking decision in accordance with section 514, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1514), and part 174 of this chapter, the exporter or producer of the merchandise which is the subject of the adverse marking decision may intervene in the importer's protest. Such intervention shall not affect any time limits applicable to the protest or delay action on the protest.


(b) *Form and filing of intervention.* In order to intervene in an importer's protest, as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the exporter or producer of the merchandise shall file, in triplicate, a typewritten statement of intervention, in English, with the Center director. The statement should be on letterhead paper in the form of a letter and should be clearly designated “NAFTA Exporter or Producer Intervention in Protest”. The statement shall be signed by the exporter, producer or his authorized agent. The provisions of § 174.3 of this chapter shall apply for purposes of signature by a person other than the principal.


(c) *Content.* The NAFTA Exporter or Producer Intervention in Protest letter shall include the following:


(1) The name and address of the exporter or producer of the merchandise and the name and address of any authorized agent filing the request on behalf of such principal; 


(2) In the case of a Canadian exporter or producer, the employer number assigned by Revenue Canada, Customs and Excise; in the case of a Mexican exporter or producer, the Federal taxpayer registry number (RFC); and the Customs identification number of an authorized agent filing the request on behalf of such principal; 


(3) The number and date of each entry involved in the adverse marking decision; 


(4) A specific description of the merchandise which is the subject of the adverse marking decision; 


(5) A complete statement of all relevant facts relating to the adverse marking decision and the transaction to which it relates, including the date of the decision; 


(6) A detailed statement of position regarding why the exporter or producer believes the adverse marking decision is contrary to the provision of Annex 311 of the NAFTA; 


(7) A statement as to whether a Request for Basis of Adverse Marking Decision was filed under § 181.113 of this part, and if so, the date of such Request and of any Customs response thereto issued under § 181.114 of this part. Copies of the Request and the Customs response shall be submitted, if available; 


(8) The number assigned to the importer's protest; 


(9) A statement that the intervenor is the exporter or producer of the merchandise that was the subject of the adverse marking decision being protested by the importer and, if the intervenor is the exporter, a statement that it maintains sufficient records to enable Customs to evaluate the merits of its claim(s) regarding the adverse marking decision; and 


(10) If the intervenor prefers that the principle of confidentiality set forth in § 181.121 of this part be applied to the information submitted under this section, a statement to that effect. If no such statement is included in the letter, the intervention and information submitted in connection therewith shall be subject to the same treatment as that provided in the case of requests by all interested parties for consolidation of protests as set forth in § 174.15(b)(1) of this chapter. 


(d) *Effect of Intervention.* The rights of the intervenor under this section are subordinate to the importer's protest rights. Accordingly, intervention by an exporter or producer of merchandise will not affect the procedures under part 174 of this chapter, and the importer's elections concerning accelerated disposition and application for further review of the protest will govern how the protest is handled and how the intervention is considered. If the importer withdraws or settles the protest, the exporter or producer has no right to continue the intervention action. 


(e) *Action by Center director.* If final administrative action has already been taken with respect to the importer's protest at the time the intervention is filed, the Center director shall so advise the exporter or producer and, if the importer has filed a civil action in the Court of International Trade as a result of a denial of the protest, the Center director shall advise the exporter or producer of that filing and of the exporter's or producer's right to seek to intervene in such judicial proceeding. If final administrative action has not been taken on the protest, the Center director shall forward the intervention letter to the Customs office which has the importer's protest under review for consideration in connection with the protest. 


(f) *Final disposition.* The intervenor shall be notified in writing of the final disposition of the protest. If the protest is denied in whole or in part, the intervenor shall be furnished a copy of the notice given to the importer under § 174.29. 



---

[N] [T.D. 95-68, 60 FR 46364, Sept. 6, 1995, as amended by CBP Dec. No. 16-26, 81 FR 93027, Dec. 20, 2016]




