# § 704.11   Credit Union Service Organizations (CUSOs).

(a) *Investment and loan limitations.* (1) The aggregate of all investments in member and non-member CUSOs that a corporate credit union may make must not exceed 15 percent of a corporate credit union's total capital.


(2) The aggregate of all investments in and loans to member and nonmember CUSOs a corporate credit union may make must not exceed 30 percent of a corporate credit union's total capital. A corporate credit union may lend to member and nonmember CUSOs an additional 15 percent of total capital if the loan is collateralized by assets in which the corporate has a perfected security interest under state law.


(3) If the limitations in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section are reached or exceeded because of the profitability of the CUSO and the related GAAP valuation of the investment under the equity method without an additional cash outlay by the corporate, divestiture is not required. A corporate credit union may continue to invest up to the regulatory limit without regard to the increase in the GAAP valuation resulting from the CUSO's profitability.


(b) *Due diligence.* A corporate credit union must comply with the commercial loan policy and due diligence requirements of § 723.4 of this chapter for all loans to CUSOs unless the loan or line of credit is fully secured by U.S. Treasury or agency securities.


(c) *Requirements for CUSOs that are not corporate CUSOs.* Corporate credit union investments in and lending to CUSOs that are not corporate CUSOs are subject to part 712 of this chapter, except that investment and loan limitations and due diligence requirements are governed by this section. CUSOs of state-chartered natural person credit unions are subject to part 712 of this chapter to the same extent as a CUSO of a federal credit union.


(d) *Requirements for corporate CUSOs.* Corporate credit union authority to invest in or loan to a corporate CUSO is limited to that provided in this section.


(1) *Structure.* A corporate CUSO must be structured as a corporation, limited liability company, or limited partnership under state law.


(2) *Separate entity.* (i) A corporate CUSO must be operated as an entity separate from a corporate credit union.


(ii) A corporate credit union investing in or lending to a corporate CUSO must obtain a written legal opinion that concludes the corporate CUSO is organized and operated in a manner that the corporate credit union will not reasonably be held liable for the obligations of the corporate CUSO. This opinion must address factors that have led courts to “pierce the corporate veil,” such as inadequate capitalization, lack of corporate identity, common boards of directors and employees, control of one entity over another, and lack of separate books and records.


(3) *Permissible activities.* (i) A corporate CUSO must agree to limit its activities to:


(A) Brokerage services,


(B) Investment advisory services, and


(C) Other categories of activities as approved in writing by the NCUA and published on the NCUA's website.


(ii) Once the NCUA has approved an activity and published that activity on its website, the NCUA will not remove that particular activity from the approved list, or make substantial changes to the content or description of that approved activity, except through the formal rulemaking process.


(4) *Compensation restrictions.* An official of a corporate credit union which has invested in or loaned to a corporate CUSO may not receive, either directly or indirectly, any salary, commission, investment income, or other income, compensation, or consideration from the corporate CUSO. This prohibition also extends to immediate family members of officials.


(5) *Written agreement between the corporate credit union and corporate CUSO.* Prior to making an investment in or loan to a corporate CUSO, a corporate credit union must obtain a written agreement that the corporate CUSO:


(i) Will follow GAAP;


(ii) Will provide financial statements to the corporate credit union at least quarterly;


(iii) Will obtain an annual CPA opinion audit and provide a copy to the corporate credit union. A consolidated CUSO is not required to obtain a separate annual audit if it is included in the corporate credit union's annual audit;


(iv) Will provide the reports as required by § 712.3(d)(4) and (5) of this chapter;


(v) Will not acquire control, directly or indirectly, of another depository financial institution or to invest in shares, stocks, or obligations of an insurance company, trade association, liquidity facility, or similar organization;


(vi) Will allow the auditor, board of directors, and NCUA complete access to the CUSO's personnel, facilities, equipment, books, records, and any other documentation that the auditor, directors, or NCUA deem pertinent;


(vii) Will inform the corporate, at least quarterly, of all the compensation paid by the CUSO to its employees who are also employees of the corporate credit union; and


(viii) Will comply with all the requirements of this section.


(e) *Subsidiary restrictions.* Any subsidiary of a corporate CUSO is automatically designated a corporate CUSO and subject to all the requirements of this section. The requirements of this section apply to all tiers or levels of a corporate CUSO's structure.



---

[N] [85 FR 71826, Nov. 12, 2020]




