# § 393.126   Specific securement requirements for intermodal containers.

(a) *Applicability.* The rules in this section apply to the transportation of intermodal containers. Cargo contained within an intermodal container must be secured in accordance with the provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114 or, if applicable, the commodity specific rules of this part. 


(b) *Securement of intermodal containers transported on container chassis vehicle(s).* (1) All lower corners of the intermodal container must be secured to the container chassis with securement devices or integral locking devices that cannot unintentionally become unfastened while the vehicle is in transit.


(2) The securement devices must restrain the container from moving more than 1.27 cm (1/2 in) forward, more than 1.27 cm (1/2 in) aft, more than 1.27 cm (1/2 in) to the right, more than 1.27 cm (1/2 in) to the left, or more than 2.54 cm (1 in) vertically. 


(3) The front and rear of the container must be secured independently. 


(c) *Securement of loaded intermodal containers transported on vehicles other than container chassis vehicle(s).* (1) All lower corners of the intermodal container must rest upon the vehicle, or the corners must be supported by a structure capable of bearing the weight of the container and that support structure must be independently secured to the motor vehicle. 


(2) Each container must be secured to the vehicle by: 


(i) Chains, wire ropes or integral devices which are fixed to all lower corners; or 


(ii) Crossed chains which are fixed to all upper corners; and, 


(3) The front and rear of the container must be secured independently. Each chain, wire rope, or integral locking device must be attached to the container in a manner that prevents it from being unintentionally unfastened while the vehicle is in transit. 


(d) *Securement of empty intermodal containers transported on vehicles other than container chassis vehicle(s).* Empty intermodal containers transported on vehicles other than container chassis vehicles do not have to have all lower corners of the intermodal container resting upon the vehicle, or have all lower corners supported by a structure capable of bearing the weight of the empty container, provided: 


(1) The empty intermodal container is balanced and positioned on the vehicle in a manner such that the container is stable before the addition of tiedowns or other securement equipment; and,


(2) The amount of overhang for the empty container on the trailer does not exceed five feet on either the front or rear of the trailer; 


(3) The empty intermodal container must not interfere with the vehicle's maneuverability; and, 


(4) The empty intermodal container is secured to prevent lateral, longitudinal, or vertical shifting. 



---

[N] [67 FR 61225, Sept. 27, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 35834, June 22, 2006]




