# ยง 280.10   Applicability.

(a) The requirements of this part apply to all owners and operators of an UST system as defined in ยง 280.12 except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(1) *Previously deferred UST systems.* Airport hydrant fuel distribution systems, UST systems with field-constructed tanks, and UST systems that store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators must meet the requirements of this part as follows:


(i) Airport hydrant fuel distribution systems and UST systems with field-constructed tanks must meet the requirements in subpart K of this part.


(ii) UST systems that store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators installed on or before October 13, 2015 must meet the subpart D requirements on or before October 13, 2018.


(iii) UST systems that store fuel solely for use by emergency power generators installed after October 13, 2015 must meet all applicable requirements of this part at installation.


(2) Any UST system listed in paragraph (c) of this section must meet the requirements of ยง 280.11.


(b) *Exclusions.* The following UST systems are excluded from the requirements of this part:


(1) Any UST system holding hazardous wastes listed or identified under Subtitle C of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, or a mixture of such hazardous waste and other regulated substances.


(2) Any wastewater treatment tank system that is part of a wastewater treatment facility regulated under Section 402 or 307(b) of the Clean Water Act.


(3) Equipment or machinery that contains regulated substances for operational purposes such as hydraulic lift tanks and electrical equipment tanks.


(4) Any UST system whose capacity is 110 gallons or less.


(5) Any UST system that contains a *de minimis* concentration of regulated substances.


(6) Any emergency spill or overflow containment UST system that is expeditiously emptied after use.


(c) *Partial Exclusions.* Subparts B, C, D, E, G, J, and K of this part do not apply to:


(1) Wastewater treatment tank systems not covered under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;


(2) Aboveground storage tanks associated with:


(i) Airport hydrant fuel distribution systems regulated under subpart K of this part; and


(ii) UST systems with field-constructed tanks regulated under subpart K of this part;


(3) Any UST systems containing radioactive material that are regulated under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 and following); and


(4) Any UST system that is part of an emergency generator system at nuclear power generation facilities licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and subject to Nuclear Regulatory Commission requirements regarding design and quality criteria, including but not limited to 10 CFR part 50.




