# § 17.74   Species-specific rules—conifers and cycads.

(a) Whitebark pine (*Pinus albicaulis*).


(1) *Prohibitions.* The following prohibitions that apply to endangered plants also apply to whitebark pine, except as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section:


(i) Import or export, as set forth at § 17.61(b) for endangered plants.


(ii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.61(c)(1) for endangered plants.


(iii) Maliciously damage or destroy the species on any areas under Federal jurisdiction, or remove, cut, dig up, or damage or destroy the species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law, as set forth at section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act.


(iv) Interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, as set forth at § 17.61(d) for endangered plants.


(v) Sell or offer for sale, as set forth at § 17.61(e) for endangered plants.


(2) *Exception*s *from prohibitions.* In regard to the whitebark pine, you may:


(i) Conduct activities as authorized by permit under § 17.72.


(ii) Conduct forest-management, restoration, or research-related activities conducted or authorized by the Federal agency with jurisdiction over the land where the activities occur.


(iii) Remove and reduce to possession from areas under Federal jurisdiction, as set forth at § 17.71(b).


(iv) Collect whitebark pine seeds from areas under Federal jurisdiction for Tribal ceremonial use or traditional Tribal consumption, provided that:


(A) The collection is conducted by members of federally recognized Tribes; and


(B) The collection does not violate any other applicable laws and regulations.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [87 FR 76917, Dec. 15, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 23941, Apr. 5, 2024]






