# ยง 1102.22   Appearance and practice before the Subcommittee.

(a) *By attorneys and notice of appearance.* Any person who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any State or of the District of Columbia, or of any possession, territory, or commonwealth of the United States, may represent parties before the ASC upon filing with the Secretary a written notice of appearance stating that he or she is currently qualified as provided in this paragraph and is authorized to represent the particular party on whose behalf he or she acts.


(b) *By non-attorneys.* An individual may appear on his or her own behalf. A member of a partnership may represent the partnership, and an officer, director or employee of any government unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority may represent that unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority. The partner, officer, director or employee must file with the Secretary a written statement that he or she has been duly authorized by the partnership, government unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority to act on its behalf. The ASC may require the representative to attach to the statement appropriate supporting documentation, such as a corporate resolution.


(c) *Conduct during proceedings.* All participants in a proceeding shall conduct themselves with dignity and in an orderly and ethical manner. The attorney or other representative of a party shall make every effort to restrain a client from improper conduct in connection with a proceeding. Improper language or conduct, refusal to comply with directions, use of dilatory tactics, or refusal to adhere to reasonable standards of orderly and ethical conduct constitute grounds for immediate exclusion from the proceeding at the direction of the ASC. 




