# § 1700.5   Processing of requests for records.

(a) On receipt of a request, IMO's IRRG staff will send an acknowledgement letter to the requester which will provide an assigned request number for future reference and, if fees will be charged, shall confirm the requester's agreement to pay fees.


(b) To determine which records are responsive to the request, IRRG staff will task relevant ODNI components to search all places likely to contain potentially responsive records. The ODNI components ordinarily will include records in their possession as of the date that they begin their search unless the request specifically included an end date for the search. If another date is used, the IRRG staff will inform the requester of the date used and the reason for its use. The potentially responsive records will be sent to IRRG staff for responsiveness review and application of relevant exemptions, if any.


(c) When reviewing responsive records, ODNI will determine whether another agency of the Federal Government is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the agency will ordinarily proceed in one of the following ways:


(1) When the record originates with ODNI but contains information of interest to another agency or other Federal Government office, ODNI will typically consult with that other agency or office prior to making a release determination.


(2) When ODNI believes that a different agency is best able to determine whether to disclose the record, ODNI typically will refer the record to that agency and ask that agency to respond to the requester concerning that record (provided the other agency is subject to FOIA).


(i) Ordinarily, the agency that originated the record will be presumed to be the best agency to make the disclosure determination. However, if ODNI and the originating agency jointly agree that ODNI is in the best position to respond regarding the record, then the record may be handled as a consultation.


(ii) If another agency accepts responsibility for responding to a particular record, ODNI will notify the requester of the referral. When appropriate and available, the notice will include a point of contact for the other agency.


(3) The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. For instance, if ODNI locates within its file's materials originating with another Intelligence Community element, and the involvement of that element in the matter is classified and not publicly acknowledged, then disclosing or attributing the involvement of that Intelligence Community element could cause damage to the national security. In such an instance, and to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, ODNI will coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosure of the record. ODNI will then inform the requester of the release determination.


(d) When a request is made for information that is classified, ODNI must determine whether the information is currently and properly classified in accordance with applicable classification rules. When a request involves a record containing classified information that has been classified by another agency, ODNI will refer that portion of the request to the agency that originated the information, or has the primary interest in it, as appropriate. Similarly, when a record contains information that ODNI has derivatively classified (for example, when ODNI's classification is based on information originally classified by another agency), ODNI must refer that portion of the request to the agency that originally classified the underlying information.


(e) ODNI will notify the requester of its determination to grant, deny, or refer the FOIA request. ODNI will release reasonably segregable, non-exempt information. For any adverse determination—including those regarding any disputed fee matter; a denial of a request for a fee waiver; a determination to withhold a record in whole or in part; a determination that a record does not exist or cannot be located; or a denial of a request for expedited processing—the notice will include the following information:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the determination to deny the request in whole or in part;


(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied in denying the request. The notice will indicate, if feasible, the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which a deletion is made on the released portion of the record, unless including that information would harm an interest protected by the exemption;


(3) An estimate of the volume of information withheld, if applicable, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation. Such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable FOIA exemption;


(4) A statement that the adverse determination may be appealed and a description of the requirements for an appeal; and


(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the FOIA Public Liaison, and the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.






