# § 1484.11   Definitions.

For purposes of this part the following definitions apply:


*Activity* means a specific foreign market development effort undertaken by a Cooperator to address a constraint or opportunity.


*Administrative expenses or costs* means expenses or costs of administering, directing, and controlling an organization that is a Cooperator. Generally, this would include expenses or costs such as those related to:


(1) Maintaining a physical office (including, but not limited to: Rent, office equipment, office supplies, office décor, office furniture, computer hardware and software, maintenance, extermination, parking, and business cards);


(2) Personnel (including, but not limited to: Salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, individual insurance, and training);


(3) Communications (including, but not limited to: Phone expenses, internet, mobile phones, personal digital assistants, email, mobile email devices, postage, courier services, television, radio, and walkie talkies);


(4) Management of an organization or unit of an organization (including, but not limited to: Planning, supervision, supervisory travel, teambuilding, recruiting, and hiring);


(5) Utilities (including, but not limited to: Sewer, water, and energy); and


(6) Professional services (including, but not limited to: Accounting expenses, financial services, and investigatory services).


*Affiliate* means any partnership, association, company, corporation, trust, or any other such party in which the Cooperator has an investment, other than a mutual fund.


*Agreement* means a document entered into between CCC and a Cooperator setting forth the terms and conditions of approved activities under the Cooperator program, including any subsequent amendments to such agreement.


*Approval letter* means a document by which CCC informs an applicant that its FMD application for a program year has been approved for funding. This letter may also approve specific activities and contain terms and conditions in addition to the agreement. This letter requires a countersignature by the Cooperator before it becomes effective.


*Attaché/Counselor* means the FAS employee representing USDA interests in the foreign country in which promotional activities are conducted.


*Constraint* means a condition in a particular country or region that needs to be addressed in order to develop, expand, or maintain exports of a specific eligible commodity.


*Consumer promotion* means activities that are designed to directly influence consumers by changing attitudes or purchasing behaviors towards eligible commodities and that involve activities targeted directly toward consumers purchasing as individuals.


*Cooperator* means a nonprofit U.S. agricultural trade organization that has entered into a foreign market development agreement with CCC.


*Cooperator program* means the Foreign Market Development Cooperator program.


*Contribution* means the funds, *e.g.,* money, personnel, materials, services, facilities, or supplies, provided by an FMD Cooperator, State agency, or entities in the FMD Cooperator's industry (“U.S. industry”) in support of an approved activity as well as funds provided by the FMD Cooperator, U.S. industry, or State agency in support of related promotion activities in the markets covered by the FMD Cooperator's agreement.


*Credit memo* means a commercial document, also known as a credit memorandum, issued by the Cooperator to a commercial entity that owes the Cooperator a certain sum. A credit memo is used when the Cooperator owes the commercial entity a sum less than the amount the entity owes the Cooperator. The credit memo reflects an offset of the amount the Cooperator owes the entity against the amount the entity owes to the Cooperator.


*Demonstration projects* means activities involving the erection or construction of a structure or facility or the installation of equipment.


*Eligible commodity* means any agricultural commodity or product thereof, excluding tobacco, that is comprised of at least 50 percent by weight, exclusive of added water, of agricultural commodities grown or raised in the United States.


*Expenditure* means either payment via the transfer of funds or offset reflected in a credit memo in lieu of a transfer of funds.


*Foreign subrecipient* means a foreign entity that a Cooperator works with, in accordance with this part, to promote the export of an eligible commodity under the Cooperator program.


*Generic promotion* means a promotion that does not involve the exclusive or predominant use of a single company name, logo, or brand name, or the brand of a U.S. agricultural cooperative, but rather promotes an eligible commodity generally. A generic promotion activity may include the promotion of a foreign brand (*i.e.,* a brand owned primarily by foreign interests and being used to market an agricultural commodity in a foreign market), if the foreign brand uses the promoted eligible commodity from multiple U.S. suppliers. A generic promotion activity may also involve the use of specific U.S. company names, logos, or brand names. However, in that case, the Cooperator must ensure that all U.S. companies seeking to promote such eligible commodity in the market have an equal opportunity to participate in the activity and that at least two U.S. companies participate. In addition, an activity that promotes separate items from multiple U.S. companies will be considered a generic promotion only if the promotion of the separate items maintains a unified theme (*i.e.,* a dominant idea or motif) and style and is subordinate to the promotion of the generic theme.


*Market* means a country or region targeted by an activity.


*Notification* means a document from the Cooperator by which the Cooperator proposes to CCC changes to the activities and/or funding levels in an approved agreement and/or approval letter.


*Project funds* means the funds made available to a Cooperator under an agreement and authorized for expenditure in accordance with this part.


*Program notice* means documents that CCC issues for informational purposes. These notices are currently made available electronically through the FAS website. These notices have no legal effect. They are intended to alert Cooperators of various aspects of CCC's current administration of the FMD program. For example, CCC issues notices to alert Cooperators of applicable Federal pay scale rates and lists of economic and trade sanctions against certain foreign countries.


*Program year* means, unless otherwise agreed to in writing between CCC and a Cooperator, a 12-month period during which a Cooperator can undertake activities consistent with this part and its agreement and approval letter with CCC. This is also known as a project period, which in multiple year awards will be divided into budget periods.


*Sales and trade relations expenditures (STRE)* means expenditures made on breakfast, lunch, dinner, receptions, and refreshments at approved activities; miscellaneous courtesies such as checkroom fees, taxi fares, and tips for approved activities; and decorations for a special promotional occasion that is part of an approved activity.


*Trade team* means a group of individuals engaged in an approved activity intended to promote the interests of an entire agricultural sector rather than to result in specific sales by any of its members.


*Unified Export Strategy (UES)* means a holistic marketing plan that outlines an applicant's proposed foreign market development activities and requested funding under each of the FAS market development programs.


*Unified Export Strategy (UES) system* means an online internet system maintained by FAS through which applicants may apply to the Cooperator program and other FAS market development programs. The system is currently accessible at *https://apps.fas.usda.gov/ues/webapp/.* FAS may prescribe a different system through which applicants may apply to the FMD program and will announce such system in the applicable Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).


*U.S. agricultural commodity* means any agricultural commodity of U.S. origin, including food, feed, fiber, forestry product, livestock, insects, and fish harvested from a U.S. aquaculture farm or harvested by a vessel (as defined in Title 46 of the United States Code) in waters that are not waters (including the territorial sea) of a foreign country, and any product thereof.




