# 326.502   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions shall apply:


(a) *Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe. If the contractor has reason to doubt that a person seeking employment preference is an Indian, the contractor shall grant the preference but shall require the individual provide evidence within 30 days from the tribe concerned that the person is a member of the tribe.


(b) *Indian tribe* means an Indian tribe, pueblo, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688, 43 U.S.C. 1601), which the United States recognizes as eligible for special programs and services because of its status as Indian.


(c) *Indian organization* means the governing body of any Indian tribe, or entity established or recognized by such governing body, in accordance with the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 77, 25 U.S.C. 1451).


(d) *Indian-owned economic enterprise* means any Indian-owned commercial, industrial, or business activity established or organized for the purpose of profit, provided that such Indian ownership shall constitute not less than 51 percent of the enterprise, and the ownership shall encompass active operation and control of the enterprise.


(e) *Indian reservation* includes Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688, 43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


(f) *On or near an Indian reservation* means on a reservation or reservations or within that area surrounding an Indian reservation(s) where a person seeking employment could reasonably commute to and from in the course of a work day.




