# § 655.4   Definitions.

For this part, the terms listed in this section have the following definitions. The definitions of additional terms used in this part but not listed in this section can be found in 49 CFR Part 40.


*Accident* means an occurrence associated with the operation of a vehicle, if as a result:


(1) An individual dies; or


(2) An individual suffers bodily injury and immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or


(3) With respect to an occurrence in which the mass transit vehicle involved is a bus, electric bus, van, or automobile, one or more vehicles (including non-FTA funded vehicles) incurs disabling damage as the result of the occurrence and such vehicle or vehicles are transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle; or


(4) With respect to an occurrence in which the public transportation vehicle involved is a rail car, trolley car, trolley bus, or vessel, the public transportation vehicle is removed from operation.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration or the Administrator's designee.


*Anti-drug program* means a program to detect and deter the use of prohibited drugs as required by this part.


*Certification* means a recipient's written statement, authorized by the organization's governing board or other authorizing official that the recipient has complied with the provisions of this part. (See § 655.82 and § 655.83 for certification requirements.)


*Contractor* means a person or organization that provides a safety-sensitive service for a recipient, subrecipient, employer, or operator consistent with a specific understanding or arrangement. The understanding can be a written contract or an informal arrangement that reflects an ongoing relationship between the parties.


*Covered employee* means a person, including an applicant or transferee, who performs or will perform a safety-sensitive function for an entity subject to this part. A volunteer is a covered employee if:


(1) The volunteer is required to hold a commercial driver's license to operate the vehicle; or


(2) The volunteer performs a safety-sensitive function for an entity subject to this part and receives remuneration in excess of his or her actual expenses incurred while engaged in the volunteer activity.


*Disabling damage* means damage that precludes departure of a motor vehicle from the scene of the accident in its usual manner in daylight after simple repairs.


(1) *Inclusion.* Damage to a motor vehicle, where the vehicle could have been driven, but would have been further damaged if so driven.


(2) *Exclusions.* (i) Damage that can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the accident without special tools or parts.


(ii) Tire disablement without other damage even if no spare tire is available.


(iii) Headlamp or tail light damage.


(iv) Damage to turn signals, horn, or windshield wipers, which makes the vehicle inoperable.


*DOT* or *The Department* means the United States Department of Transportation.


*DOT agency* means an agency (or “operating administration”) of the United States Department of Transportation administering regulations requiring drug and alcohol testing. See 14 CFR part 121, appendices I and J; 33 CFR part 95; 46 CFR parts 4, 5, and 16; and 49 CFR parts 199, 219, 382, and 655.


*Employer* means a recipient or other entity that provides public transportation service or which performs a safety-sensitive function for such recipient or other entity. This term includes subrecipients, operators, and contractors.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration, an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation.


*Performing (a safety-sensitive function)* means a covered employee is considered to be performing a safety-sensitive function and includes any period in which he or she is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately available to perform such functions.


*Positive rate for random drug testing* means the number of verified positive results for random drug tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random drug tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random drug tests results (*i.e.,* positive, negative, and refusals) under this part. 


*Railroad* means:


(1) All forms of non-highway ground transportation that run on rails or electromagnetic guideways, including:


(i) Commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area, as well as any commuter rail service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation as of January 1, 1979; and


(ii) High speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether they use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads.


(2) Such term does not include rapid transit operations within an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation.


*Recipient* means a person that receives Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. 5307, 5309, or 5311 directly from the Federal Government.


*Refuse to submit* means any circumstance outlined in 49 CFR 40.191 and 40.261.


*Safety-sensitive function* means any of the following duties, when performed by employees of recipients, subrecipients, operators, or contractors:


(1) Operating a revenue service vehicle, including when not in revenue service;


(2) Operating a nonrevenue service vehicle, when required to be operated by a holder of a Commercial Driver's License;


(3) Controlling dispatch or movement of a revenue service vehicle;


(4) Maintaining (including repairs, overhaul and rebuilding) a revenue service vehicle or equipment used in revenue service. This section does not apply to the following: an employer who receives funding under 49 U.S.C. 5307 or 5309, is in an area less than 200,000 in population, and contracts out such services; or an employer who receives funding under 49 U.S.C. 5311 and contracts out such services;


(5) Carrying a firearm for security purposes.


*Vehicle* means a bus, electric bus, van, automobile, rail car, trolley car, trolley bus, or vessel. A public transportation vehicle is a vehicle used for public transportation or for ancillary services.


*Violation rate for random alcohol testing* means the number of 0.04 and above random alcohol confirmation test results conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random alcohol tests required by this part, divided by the total number of alcohol random screening tests (including refusals) conducted under this part.



---

[N] [66 FR 42002, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 75462, Dec. 31, 2003; 78 FR 37993, June 25, 2013]




