# § 15b.22   Free appropriate public education.

(a) *General.* A recipient that operates a public elementary or secondary education program or activity shall provide a free appropriate public education to each qualified handicapped person who is in the recipient's jurisdiction, regardless of the nature or severity of the person's handicap. 


(b) *Appropriate education.* (1) For the purpose of this subpart, the provision of an appropriate education is the provision of regular or special education and related aids and services that (i) are designed to meet individual educational needs of handicapped persons as adequately as the needs of nonhandicapped persons are met and (ii) are based upon adherence to procedures that satisfy the requirements of §§ 15b.23, 15b.24, and ;15b.25. 


(2) Implementation of an Individualized Education Program developed in accordance with the Education of the Handicapped Act is one means of meeting the standard established in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. 


(3) A recipient may place a handicapped person or refer such person for aid, benefits, or services other than those that it operates or provides as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart. If so, the recipient remains responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this subpart are met with respect to any handicapped person so placed or referred. 


(c) *Free education*—(1) *General.* For the purpose of this section, the provision of a free education is the provision of educational and related services without cost to handicapped persons or their parents or guardians, except for those fees that are imposed on nonhandicapped persons or their parents or guardians. It may consist either of the provision of free services or, if a recipient places a handicapped person in or refers such person for aid, benefits, or services not operated or provided by the recipient as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart, payment for the costs of the aid, benefits, or services. Funds available from any public or private agency may be used to meet the requirements of this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve an insurer or similar third party from an otherwise valid obligation to provide or pay for services provided to a handicapped person. 


(2) *Transportation.* If a recipient places a handicapped person or refers such person for aid, benefits, or services not operated or provided by the recipient as its means of carrying out the requirements of this subpart, the recipient shall ensure that adequate transportation to and from aid, benefits, or services is provided at no greater cost than would be incurred by the person or his or her parents or guardian if the person were placed in the program operated by the recipient. 


(3) *Residential placement.* If a public or private residential placement is necessary to provide a free appropriate public education to a handicapped person because of their handicap, the placement, including nonmedical care and room and board, shall be provided at no cost to the person or his or her parents or guardian.


(4) *Placement of handicapped persons by parents.* If a recipient has made available in conformance with the requirements of this section and § 15b.23, a free appropriate public education to a handicapped person and the person's parents or guardian choose to place the person in a private school, the recipient is not required to pay for the person's education in the private school. Disagreements between a parent or guardian and a recipient regarding whether the recipient has made a free appropriate education available or otherwise regarding the question of financial responsibility are subject to the due process procedures of § 15b.25.


(d) *Compliance.* A recipient may not exclude any qualified handicapped person from a public elementary or secondary education after the effective date of this regulation. A recipient that is not, on the effective date of this regulation, in full compliance with the other requirements of the preceding paragraphs of this section shall meet such requirements at the earliest practicable time but in no event later than September 1, 1982.



---

[N] [47 FR 25470, June 11, 1982, as amended at 68 FR 51343, Aug. 26, 2003]




