# § 1081.209   Depositions.

(a) *Depositions by oral examination or by written questions.* Depositions by oral examination or by written questions may be taken as set forth in this section and must be taken pursuant to subpoena issued under § 1081.208. Any deposition permitted under this section may be taken and submitted on written questions upon motion of any party, for good cause shown, or as stipulated by the parties. No other depositions will be permitted except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) If the proceeding involves a single respondent, the respondent may depose no more than three persons, and the Enforcement Division may depose no more than three persons.


(2) If the proceeding involves multiple respondents, the respondents collectively may depose no more than five persons, and the Enforcement Division may depose no more than five persons. The depositions taken under this paragraph (a)(2) cannot exceed a total of five depositions for the Enforcement Division, and five depositions for all respondents collectively.


(3) Any side may file a motion with the hearing officer seeking leave to take up to two additional depositions beyond those permitted pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(i) *Procedure.* (A) A motion for additional depositions must be filed no later than 28 days prior to the hearing date. If the moving side proposes to take the additional deposition(s) by written questions, the motion must so state and include the proposed questions. Any party opposing the motion may submit an opposition within seven days after service of the motion. No reply will be permitted. The motion and any oppositions each must not exceed seven pages in length.


(B) Upon consideration of the motion and any opposing papers, the hearing officer will issue an order either granting or denying the motion. The hearing officer will consider the motion on an expedited basis.


(ii) *Grounds and standards for motion.* A motion under paragraph (a)(3) of this section will not be granted unless the additional depositions satisfy § 1081.208(d) and the moving side demonstrates a compelling need for the additional depositions by:


(A) Identifying all witnesses the moving side plans to depose under this section;


(B) Describing the role of all witnesses;


(C) Describing the matters concerning which all witnesses are expected to be questioned, and why the deposition of all witnesses is necessary for the moving side's arguments, claims, or defenses; and


(D) Showing that the additional deposition(s) requested will not be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.


(b) *Additional procedure for depositions by written questions.* (1) Any motion or stipulation seeking a deposition of a witness by written questions must include the written questions the party seeking the deposition will ask the witness. Within seven days after service of the motion and written questions, any party may file objections to such written questions and any party may file cross-questions. When a deposition is taken by written questions, no persons other than the witness, counsel to the witness, the deposition officer, and, if the deposition officer does not act as reporter, a reporter, may be present at the examination of the witness. No party may be present or represented unless otherwise permitted by order. The deposition officer will propound the questions and cross-questions to the witness in the order submitted.


(2) The order for deposition, filing of the deposition, form of the deposition, and use of the deposition in the record will be governed by paragraphs (d) through (l) of this section, except that no cross-examination will be made.


(c) *Depositions when witness is unavailable.* In addition to depositions permitted under paragraph (a) of this section, the hearing officer may grant a party's request for issuance of a subpoena if the requesting party shows that the prospective witness will likely give testimony material to the proceeding; that it is likely the prospective witness, who is then within the United States, will be unable to attend or testify at the hearing because of age, sickness, infirmity, imprisonment, other disability, or absence from the United States, unless it appears that the absence of the witness was procured by the party requesting the deposition; and that the taking of a deposition will serve the interests of justice.


(d) *Service and contents of notice.* Upon issuance of a subpoena for a deposition, the party taking the deposition must serve a notice on each party pursuant to § 1081.113. A notice of deposition must state that the deposition will be taken before a deposition officer authorized to administer oaths by the laws of the United States or of the place where the deposition is to be held. A notice of deposition also must state:


(1) The name and address of the witness whose deposition is to be taken;


(2) The time and place of the deposition; and


(3) The manner of recording and preserving the deposition.


(e) *Method of recording*—(1) *Method stated in the notice.* The party who notices the deposition must state in the notice the method for recording the testimony. Unless the hearing officer orders otherwise, testimony may be recorded by audio, audiovisual, or stenographic means. The noticing party bears the recording costs. Any party may arrange to transcribe a deposition, at that party's expense. Each party will bear its own costs for obtaining copies of any transcripts or audio or audiovisual recordings.


(2) *Additional method.* With prior notice to the deponent and other parties, any party may designate another method for recording the testimony in addition to that specified in the original notice. That party bears the expense of the additional record or transcript unless the hearing officer orders otherwise.


(f) *By remote means.* The parties and the deponent may stipulate—or the hearing officer may on motion order—that a deposition be taken by telephone or other electronic means. For the purpose of this section, the deposition takes place where the deponent answers the questions.


(g) *Deposition officer's duties*—(1) *Before the deposition.* The deposition officer must begin the deposition with an on-the-record statement that includes:


(i) The deposition officer's name and business address;


(ii) The date, time, and place of the deposition;


(iii) The deponent's name;


(iv) The deposition officer's administration of the oath or affirmation to the deponent; and


(v) The identity of all persons present.


(2) *Conducting the deposition; avoiding distortion.* If the deposition is recorded non-stenographically, the deposition officer must repeat the items in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section at the beginning of each unit of the recording medium. The deponent's and attorneys' appearance or demeanor must not be distorted through recording techniques.


(3) *After the deposition.* At the end of a deposition, the deposition officer must state on the record that the deposition is complete and must set out any stipulations made by the attorneys about custody of the transcript or recording and of the exhibits, or about any other pertinent matters.


(h) *Order and record of the examination*—(1) *Order of examination.* The examination and cross-examination of a deponent will proceed as they would at the hearing. After putting the deponent under oath or affirmation, the deposition officer must record the testimony by the method designated under paragraph (e) of this section. The testimony must be recorded by the deposition officer personally or by a person acting in the presence and under the direction of the deposition officer. The witness being deposed may have counsel present during the deposition.


(2) *Form of objections stated during the deposition.* An objection at the time of the examination—whether to evidence, to a party's conduct, to the deposition officer's qualifications, to the manner of taking the deposition, or to any other aspect of the deposition—must be noted on the record, but the examination may still proceed and the testimony may be taken subject to any objection. An objection must be stated concisely in a nonargumentative and nonsuggestive manner. A person may instruct a deponent not to answer only when necessary to preserve a privilege, to enforce a limitation ordered by the hearing officer, or to present a motion to the hearing officer for a limitation on the questioning in the deposition.


(i) *Waiver of objections*—(1) *To the notice.* An objection to an error or irregularity in a deposition notice is waived unless promptly served in writing on the party giving the notice.


(2) *To the deposition officer's qualification.* An objection based on disqualification of the deposition officer before whom a deposition is to be taken is waived if not made:


(i) Before the deposition begins; or


(ii) Promptly after the basis for disqualification becomes known or, with reasonable diligence, could have been known.


(3) *To the taking of the deposition*—(i) *Objection to competence, relevance, or materiality.* An objection to a deponent's competence—or to the competence, relevance, or materiality of testimony—is not waived by a failure to make the objection before or during the deposition, unless the ground for it might have been corrected at that time.


(ii) *Objection to an error or irregularity.* An objection to an error or irregularity at an oral examination is waived if:


(A) It relates to the manner of taking the deposition, the form of a question or answer, the oath or affirmation, a party's conduct, or other matters that might have been corrected at that time; and


(B) It is not timely made during the deposition.


(4) *To completing and returning the deposition.* An objection to how the deposition officer transcribed the testimony—or prepared, signed, certified, sealed, endorsed, sent, or otherwise dealt with the deposition—is waived unless a motion to suppress is made promptly after the error or irregularity becomes known or, with reasonable diligence, could have been known.


(j) *Duration; cross-examination; motion to terminate or limit*—(1) *Duration.* Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by the hearing officer, a deposition is limited to one day of seven hours, including cross-examination as provided in this paragraph (j)(1). In a deposition conducted by or for a respondent, the Enforcement Division will be allowed a reasonable amount of time for cross-examination of the deponent. In a deposition conducted by the Office, the respondents collectively will be allowed a reasonable amount of time for cross-examination of the deponent. The hearing officer may allow additional time if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.


(2) *Motion to terminate or limit*—(i) *Grounds.* At any time during a deposition, the deponent or a party may move to terminate or limit it on the ground that it is being conducted in bad faith or in a manner that unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or oppresses the deponent or party. If the objecting deponent or party so demands, the deposition must be suspended for the time necessary to present the motion to the hearing officer.


(ii) *Order.* Upon a motion under paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section, the hearing officer may order that the deposition be terminated or may limit its scope. If terminated, the deposition may be resumed only by order of the hearing officer.


(k) *Review by the witness; changes*—(1) *Review; statement of changes.* On request by the deponent or a party before the deposition is completed, and unless otherwise ordered by the hearing officer, the deponent must be allowed 14 days after being notified by the deposition officer that the transcript or recording is available, unless a longer time is agreed to by the parties or permitted by the hearing officer, in which:


(i) To review the transcript or recording; and


(ii) If there are changes in form or substance, to sign a statement listing the changes and the reasons for making them.


(2) *Changes indicated in the deposition officer's certificate.* The deposition officer must note in the certificate prescribed by paragraph (l)(1) of this section whether a review was requested and, if so, must attach any changes the deponent makes during the 14-day period.


(l) *Certification and delivery; exhibits; copies of the transcript or recording*—(1) *Certification and delivery.* The deposition officer must certify in writing that the witness was duly sworn and that the deposition accurately records the witness's testimony. The certificate must accompany the record of the deposition. Unless the hearing officer orders otherwise, the deposition officer must seal the deposition in an envelope or package bearing the title of the action and marked “Deposition of [witness's name]” and must promptly send it to the attorney or party who arranged for the transcript or recording. The attorney or party must store it under conditions that will protect it against loss, destruction, tampering, or deterioration.


(2) *Documents and tangible things*—(i) *Originals and copies.* Documents and tangible things produced for inspection during a deposition must, on a party's request, be marked for identification and attached to the deposition. Any party may inspect and copy them. But if the person who produced them wants to keep the originals, the person may:


(A) Offer copies to be marked, attached to the deposition, and then used as originals—after giving all parties a fair opportunity to verify the copies by comparing them with the originals; or


(B) Give all parties a fair opportunity to inspect and copy the originals after they are marked—in which event the originals may be used as if attached to the deposition.


(ii) *Order regarding the originals.* Any party may move for an order that the originals be attached to the deposition pending final disposition of the case.


(3) *Copies of the transcript or recording.* Unless otherwise stipulated or ordered by the hearing officer, the deposition officer must retain the stenographic notes of a deposition taken stenographically or a copy of the recording of a deposition taken by another method. When paid reasonable charges, the deposition officer must furnish a copy of the transcript or recording to any party or the deponent, as directed by the party or person paying such charges.


(m) *Presentation of objections or disputes.* Any party or deponent seeking relief with respect to disputes over the conduct of a deposition may file a motion with the hearing officer to obtain relief as permitted by this part.




