# § 61.2   Definitions.

*Department*—means the Department of State.


*Applicant—* means: (1) The United States holder of the “basic rights” in the material submitted for export certification; or (2) the holder of a foreign certificate seeking import authentication.


*Application form*—means the Application for Certificate of International Educational Character (Form IAP-17) which is required for requesting Department certification of United States produced audio-visual materials under the provisions of the Beirut Agreement.


*Attestation Officer*—means the Chief Attestation Officer of the United States and any member of his or her staff with authority to issue Certificates or Importation Documents.


*Audio-visual materials*—means: (1) Films, filmstrips and microfilm in exposed and developed negative form, or in positive form, *viz.,* masters or prints, teletranscriptions, kinescopes, videotape; (2) electronic sound recordings and sound/picture recordings of all types and forms or pressings and transfers thereform; (3) slides and transparencies; moving and static models, wallcharts, globes, maps and posters.


*Authentication*—means the process through which an applicant obtains a United States Importation Document for Audio-visual Materials (Form IA-862).


*Basic rights*—means the world-wide non-restrictive ownership rights in audio-visual materials from which the assignment of subsidiary rights (such as language versions, television, limited distribution, reproduction, etc.) are derived.


*Beirut Agreement*—means the “Agreement for Facilitating the International Circulation of Visual and Auditory Materials of an Educational, Scientific, or Cultural Character.”


*Certificate*—means a document attesting that the named material complies with the standards set forth in Article I of the Beirut Agreement issued by: (1) The appropriate government agency of the State wherein the material to which the certificate relates originated, or (2) by the United Nations Educational, Scientific or Cultural Organization.


*Certification*—means the process of obtaining a certificate attesting that audio-visual materials of United States origin being exported from the United States comply with the standards set forth in Article I of the Beirut Agreement, as interpreted pursuant to Section 207 of Public Law 101-138.


*Collateral instructional material*—means a teacher's manual, study guide, or similar instructional material prepared or reviewed by a bona fide subject matter specialist. Such material must delineate the informational or instructional objectives of the audio-visual material and illustrate or explain how to utilize such material to attain the stated objectives.


*Committee on attestation*—means the committee which advises the Attestation Officer on matters of policy and the evaluation of specific materials.


*Exports*—means educational, scientific, and cultural audio-visual material of United States origin, being sent from the United States.


*Importation document*—means the United States Importation Document for Audio-visual Materials (Form IA-862) issued by the Chief Attestation Officer of the United States which attests that materials of foreign origin entering the United States comply with the standards set forth in Article I of the Beirut Agreement (as interpreted pursuant to section 207 of Public Law 101-138) and is therefore entitled to duty-free entry into the United States pursuant to the provisions of United States Customs Bureau Harmonized Tariff System Item No. 9817.00.4000.


*Imports*—means educational, scientific, and cultural audio-visual material of foreign origin being brought into the United States.


*Instruct or inform*—means to teach, train or impart knowledge through the development of a subject or aspect of a subject to aid the viewer or listener in a learning process. The instructional or informational character of audio-visual material may be evidenced by the presence of collateral instructional material.


*Knowledge*—means a body of facts and principles acquired by instruction, study, research, or experience.


*Review Board*—means the panel appointed by the Secretary of State to review appeals filed by applicants from decisions rendered by an Attestation Officer.


*Secretary of State*—means the Secretary of State of the State Department.


*Serial certification*—means certification by the Department of materials produced in series form and which, for time-sensitive reasons, cannot be reviewed prior to production; but samples are provided on application, and the materials are subject to post-certification review.


*Subject matter specialist*—means an individual who has acquired special skill in or knowledge of a particular subject through professional training or practical experience.



---

[N] [59 FR 18965, Apr. 21, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 29989, June 7, 1995. Redesignated at 64 FR 54539, Oct. 7, 1999]




