# § 60.10   Eligibility criteria for Fisher House or other temporary lodging.

(a) *General.* While a veteran is undergoing an episode of care, VA may provide either Fisher House or other temporary lodging, as appropriate, if the request meets the requirements of this part 60. These are the only types of lodging provided by VA under this part. Note: Lodging provided for under this part will not be used by a person participating in a VA residential treatment program, or as a substitute for participation in such a program.


(b) *Eligible persons*—(1) *Fisher House.* VA may provide Fisher House lodging to accompanying individual(s) and, in limited circumstances of immediate need and no alternative temporary lodging, to a veteran with one or more accompanying individual(s). Fisher House lodging will not be used to lodge unaccompanied veterans or individuals in need of transitional or permanent housing.


(2) *Other temporary lodging.* VA may provide other temporary lodging to a veteran or to a veteran and his or her accompanying individual(s). Accompanying individuals may not stay in other temporary lodging unless the veteran is also staying in temporary lodging.


(c) *Condition of the veteran.* Fisher House or other temporary lodging will not be provided to a veteran unless the VA official reviewing the request determines, based on the request and on any necessary clinical information, that the veteran is:


(1) Medically stable and capable of self-care; or


(2) Accompanied by an individual who is able to provide all necessary care.


(d) *Travel time/distance requirement.* Fisher House or other temporary lodging may be provided only if the applicant seeking lodging must travel at least 50 miles, or for 2 hours, from his or her home to the VA health care facility. VA may waive these requirements based on exceptional circumstances, such as when the physical condition of an accompanying individual and/or the veteran, inclement weather, road conditions, or the mode of transportation, make it difficult or dangerous to travel to or return from the VA health care facility without an overnight stay.


(e) *Special authority for organ transplant cases.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA may provide Fisher House or other temporary lodging for individuals who must be present on site for evaluation, donation, and care related to their status as an organ donor for a veteran. VA may also provide Fisher House or other temporary lodging for the donor's accompanying individuals at all phases of the transplant process.



---

[N] [77 FR 59089, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 26594, June 8, 2017]




