# § 751.605   Prohibitions of manufacturing, processing, distribution in commerce, and use.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) The provisions of this section apply as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section to all manufacturing (including import), processing, and distribution in commerce of PCE for consumer use.


(2) The provisions of this section apply as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section to:


(i) All manufacturing (including import), processing, and distribution in commerce of PCE for industrial and commercial use, other than for the industrial and commercial uses addressed under §§ 751.607(a), 751.609(a), and 751.611(a), or covered by paragraph (a)(3) of this section; and


(ii) All industrial and commercial use of PCE, other than the industrial and commercial uses addressed under §§ 751.607(a), 751.609(a), and 751.611(a), or covered by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) The provisions of this section apply as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section to all manufacturing (including import), processing, distribution in commerce, and industrial and commercial use of PCE in dry cleaning and related spot cleaning, including:


(i) Industrial and commercial use in dry cleaning and related spot cleaning in 3rd generation machines; and


(ii) Industrial and commercial use in dry cleaning and related spot cleaning in 4th and 5th generation machines.


(4) This section does not apply to the distribution in commerce or use of clothing and articles that have been commercially dry cleaned with PCE.


(5) This section does not apply to manufacturing, processing, or distribution in commerce of PCE solely for export that meets the conditions described in TSCA section 12(a)(1)(A) and (B).


(b) *Prohibitions.* (1) After June 11, 2026, all persons are prohibited from manufacturing (including importing) PCE for the uses listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(2) After September 9, 2026, all persons are prohibited from processing PCE, including any PCE-containing products, for the uses listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) After December 8, 2026, all persons are prohibited from distributing in commerce (including making available) PCE, including any PCE-containing products, to retailers for any use other than commercial dry cleaning.


(4) After March 8, 2027, all retailers are prohibited from distributing in commerce (including making available) PCE, including any PCE-containing products.


(5) After March 8, 2027, all persons are prohibited from distributing in commerce (including making available) PCE, including any PCE-containing products, for the uses described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(6) After June 7, 2027, all persons are prohibited from industrial or commercial use of PCE, including any PCE-containing products, for the uses listed in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(7) All persons are prohibited from industrial or commercial use of PCE in dry cleaning machines acquired after June 16, 2025.


(8) After December 20, 2027, all persons are prohibited from industrial or commercial use of PCE for the use listed in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.


(9) After December 19, 2034, all persons are prohibited from the manufacturing (including importing), processing, distribution in commerce, or industrial or commercial use of PCE for dry cleaning and spot cleaning, including for the use listed in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.


(10) After December 19, 2034, all persons are prohibited from manufacturing (including import), processing, distribution in commerce, or use of PCE, including any PCE containing products, for industrial or commercial use in an emergency by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration or its contractors as described in § 751.117(b).






