# § 301.6011-3   Required use of electronic form for partnership returns.

(a) *Partnership returns required electronically.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a partnership required to file a partnership return pursuant to § 1.6031(a)-1 of this chapter, must file the information required by the applicable forms and schedules electronically, if


(i) the partnership is required by the Internal Revenue Code or regulations to file at least 10 returns (as described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section) during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the partnership, or


(ii) the partnership has more than 100 partners during the partnership's taxable year.


(2) The Commissioner may direct the type of electronic filing and may also exempt certain returns from the electronic requirements of this section through revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings on the *IRS.gov* website. Returns filed electronically must be made in accordance with the applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(b) *Exclusions from electronic-filing requirements*—(1) *Waivers.* The Commissioner may grant waivers of the requirements of this section in cases of undue hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the return electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing the return on paper. A request for a waiver must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request will specify the type of filing (that is, a return required under § 1.6031(a)-1 of this chapter) and the period to which it applies.


(2) *Exemptions.* The Commissioner may provide exemptions from the requirements of this section to promote effective and efficient tax administration. An exemption will be allowed for filers for whom using the technology required to file in electronic form conflicts with their religious beliefs. A submission claiming an exemption must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website.


(3) *Additional Exclusion.* If the IRS's systems do not support electronic filing, taxpayers will not be required to file electronically.


















(c) *Failure to file.* If a partnership fails to file a partnership return on magnetic media in the manner required and when required to do so by this section, the partnership will be deemed to have failed to file the return in the manner prescribed for purposes of the information return penalty under section 6721. See § 301.6724-1(c)(3) for rules regarding the waiver of penalties for undue economic hardship relating to filing returns on magnetic media.


(d) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:


(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.




(2) *Partnership.* The term *partnership* means a partnership as defined in § 1.761-1(a) of this chapter.


(3) *Partner.* The term *partner* means a member of a partnership as defined in section 7701(a)(2).


(4) *Partnership return.* The term *partnership return* means a form in Series 1065 (including Form 1065, U.S. Partnership Return of Income, and Form 1065-B, U.S. Return of Income for Electing Large Partnerships), along with the corresponding Schedules K-1 and all other related forms and schedules that are required to be attached to the Series 1065 form.




(5) *Calculating the number of returns.* For purposes of this section, a partnership is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year ending with or within the taxable year of the partnership, the partnership is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including income tax returns, employment tax returns, excise tax returns, and information returns (for example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099, but not including schedules required to be included with a partnership return). In the case of a short-period return, a partnership is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year in which the partnership's short taxable year ends, the partnership is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including information returns (for example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099, but not including schedules required to be included with a partnership return), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns.


(6) *Partnerships with more than 100 partners.* A partnership has more than 100 partners if, over the course of the partnership's taxable year, the partnership had more than 100 partners, regardless of whether a partner was a partner for the entire year or whether the partnership had over 100 partners on any particular day in the year. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6), however, only those persons having a direct interest in the partnership must be considered partners for purposes of determining the number of partners during the partnership's taxable year.


(e) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this section. In the examples, the partnerships' taxable year is the calendar year 2023 and the partnerships had fewer than 10 returns required to be filed during calendar year 2023:


(1) *Example 1.* Partnership P had five general partners and 90 limited partners on January 1, 2023. On March 15, 2023, 10 more limited partners acquired an interest in P. On September 29, 2023, the 10 newest partners sold their individual partnership interests to C, a corporation which was one of the original 90 limited partners. On December 31, 2023, P had the same five general partners and 90 limited partners it had on January 1, 2023. P had a total of 105 partners over the course of partnership taxable year 2023. Therefore, P must file its 2023 partnership return electronically.


(2) *Example 2.* Partnership Q is a general partnership that had 95 partners on January 1, 2023. On March 15, 2023, 10 partners sold their individual partnership interests to corporation D, which was not previously a partner in Q. On September 29, 2023, corporation D sold one-half of its partnership interest in equal shares to five individuals, who were not previously partners in Q. On December 31, 2023, Q had a total of 91 partners, and on no date in 2023 did Q have more than 100 partners. Over the course of the year, however, Q had 101 partners. Therefore, Q must file its 2023 partnership return electronically.


(3) *Example 3.* Partnership G is a general partnership with 100 partners on January 1, 2023. There are no new partners added to G in 2023. One of G's partners, A, is a partnership with 53 partners. A is one partner, regardless of the number of partners A has. Therefore, G has 100 partners and is not required to file its 2023 partnership return electronically.


(4) *Example 4.* Same facts as paragraph (e)(3) of this section (*Example 3*), except partnership G is also required to file nine Forms 1099-MISC during calendar year 2023 in addition to its 2022 partnership return. Because partnership G is required to file at least 10 returns of any type during calendar year 2023, partnership G must file its 2023 partnership return electronically.


(f) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to partnership returns required to be filed during calendar years beginning after December 31, 2023.













---

[N] [T.D. 8843, 64 FR 61503, Nov. 12, 1999, as amended by T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11769, Feb. 23, 2023]










