# § 989.157   Raisins produced from grapes grown outside of California.

(a) Any raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California that are received by a handler shall be observed and marked for identification by an inspector. As provided in § 989.173(b)(7), the inspection service may request information needed to properly mark such raisins for identification; it shall be the handler's responsibility to arrange for such identification and furnish required documentation promptly.


(b) In the absence of an inspector to observe and mark such raisins for identification, the handler shall not permit the unloading to occur unless the handler has a written statement from the inspection service that an inspector cannot be furnished within a reasonable time: *Provided,* That raisins so unloaded shall be observed and marked properly upon an inspector being available.


(c) The handler shall notify the inspection service in writing at least one business day in advance of the time such handler plans to begin receiving raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California, unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service.


(d) Raisins produced from grapes grown outside of the State of California and received by a handler shall be marked for identification by the inspector affixing to one container on each pallet or to each bin in each lot a prenumbered RAC control card (to be furnished by the Committee) which shall remain affixed until the raisins are processed and disposed of or disposed of as natural condition raisins. The cards shall be removed only by an inspector of the inspection service or authorized Committee personnel.


(e) Each handler shall store raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California separate and apart from all other raisins held by such handler to the satisfaction of the Committee. Storage of such raisins shall be deemed “separate and apart” if the containers are marked as raisins produced from grapes grown outside the State of California and placed so as to be readily and clearly identified.


(f) Any raisins received by a handler produced from grapes grown outside the State of California shall be processed and/or disposed of under the surveillance of the inspection service. The handler shall notify the inspection service in writing at least one business day in advance of the time such processing and/or disposition will occur, unless a shorter period is acceptable to the inspection service.


(g) The handler receiving raisins produced from grapes grown outside of California shall pay fees assessed by the inspection service to identify and maintain surveillance of such raisins.



---

[N] [55 FR 28019, July 9, 1990]




