# ยง 1660.3   Definitions.

These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*Court.* A Federal, State, or local court, tribunal, commission, board, or other adjudicative body of competent jurisdiction.


*Demand.* An order or subpoena by a court of competent jurisdiction for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by SSS personnel at deposition or trial.


*Disclosure.* The release of official information in litigation or the presentation of witness testimony by SSS personnel.


*Legal advisor.* (1) The General Counsel of the SSS (SSS GC).


(2) Any legal advisor designated by the SSS GC.


*Litigation.* All pretrial (*e.g.,* discovery), trial, and post-trial stages of existing judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before a court, whether foreign or domestic.


*Litigation request.* Any written request by a party in litigation or the party's attorney for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by SSS personnel at deposition, trial, or similar proceeding.


*Official information.* All information of any kind and however stored that is in the custody and control of the SSS, relates to information in the custody and control of the SSS, or was acquired by SSS personnel due to their official duties or status.


*Personnel.* (1) Employees of the SSS.


(2) Present and former (*e.g.,* retired, separated) Service members assigned to, detailed to, or otherwise affiliated with the SSS.


(3) Present and former (*e.g.,* retired, separated) employees of another Federal agency assigned to, detailed to, or otherwise affiliated with the SSS.


(4) Any individuals who are or were supervised by an SSS official and who perform or have performed services for the SSS through a contractual arrangement.


(5) Any individuals who perform or have performed services for the SSS as a volunteer board member (local, panel, multicounty, intracounty, district appeals).


(6) Members of the National Appeals Board.


*SSS Components.* The SSS Components consist of:


(1) The Office of the Director.


(2) National Headquarters Directorates and Offices.


(3) Region Offices.


(4) Data Management Center.


(5) the National Appeals Board.


(6) District Appeals Boards.


(7) Local Boards (including panels, multicounty, and intercounty boards).


(8) All other organizational entities within the SSS.






