# § 54.2012   Appeal and waiver requests.

(a) *Parties permitted to seek review of Administrator decision.* (1) Any party aggrieved by an action taken by the Administrator must first seek review from the Administrator.


(2) Any party aggrieved by an action taken by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek review from the Commission as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) Parties seeking waivers of the Commission's rules in this subpart shall seek relief directly from the Commission and need not first file an action for review from the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Filing deadlines.* (1) An affected party requesting review of a decision by the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall file such a request within thirty (30) days from the date the Administrator issues a decision.


(2) An affected party requesting review by the Commission pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section of a decision by the Administrator under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall file such a request with the Commission within thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrator's decision. Further, any party seeking a waiver of the Commission's rules under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall file a request for such waiver within thirty (30) days from the date of the Administrator's initial decision, or, if an appeal is filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, within thirty days from the date of the Administrator's decision resolving such an appeal.


(3) Parties shall adhere to the time periods for filing oppositions and replies set forth in § 1.45 of this chapter.


(c) *General filing requirements.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a request for review of an Administrator decision by the Commission shall be filed with the Commission's Office of the Secretary in accordance with the general requirements set forth in part 1 of this chapter. The request for review shall be captioned “In the Matter of Request for Review by (name of party seeking review) of Decision of Universal Service Administrator” and shall reference the applicable docket numbers.


(2) A request for review pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section shall contain:


(i) A statement setting forth the party's interest in the matter presented for review;


(ii) A full statement of relevant, material facts with supporting affidavits and documentation;


(iii) The question presented for review, with reference, where appropriate, to the relevant Commission rule, Commission order, or statutory provision; and;


(iv) A statement of the relief sought and the relevant statutory or regulatory provision pursuant to which such relief is sought.


(3) A copy of a request for review that is submitted to the Commission shall be served on the Administrator consistent with the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter.


(4) If a request for review filed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section alleges prohibitive conduct on the part of a third party, such request for review shall be served on the third party consistent with the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter. The third party may file a response to the request for review. Any response filed by the third party shall adhere to the time period for filing replies set forth in § 1.45 of this chapter and the requirement for service of documents set forth in § 1.47 of this chapter.


(d) *Review by the Wireline Competition Bureau or the Commission.* (1) Requests for review of Administrator decisions that are submitted to the Commission shall be considered and acted upon by the Wireline Competition Bureau; provided, however, that requests for review that raise novel questions of fact, law, or policy shall be considered by the full Commission.


(2) An affected party may seek review of a decision issued under delegated authority by the Wireline Competition Bureau pursuant to the rules set forth in part 1 of this chapter.


(e) *Standard of review.* (1) The Wireline Competition Bureau shall conduct a *de novo* review of requests for review of decisions issued by the Administrator.


(2) The Commission shall conduct a *de novo* review of requests for review of decisions by the Administrator that involve novel questions of fact, law, or policy; provided, however, that the Commission shall not conduct a *de novo* review of decisions issued by the Wireline Competition Bureau under delegated authority.


(f) *Schools and Libraries Cybersecurity Pilot Program disbursements during pendency of a request for review and Administrator decision.* When a party has sought review of an Administrator decision under paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, the Commission shall not process a request for the reimbursement of eligible equipment and/or services until a final decision has been issued either by the Administrator or by the Commission; provided, however, that the Commission may authorize disbursement of funds for any amount of support that is not the subject of an appeal.






