# § 63.160   Applicability and designation of source.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, surge control vessels, bottoms receivers, instrumentation systems, and control devices or closed vent systems required by this subpart that are intended to operate in organic hazardous air pollutant service 300 hours or more during the calendar year within a source subject to the provisions of a specific subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that references this subpart.


(b) After the compliance date for a process unit, equipment to which this subpart applies that are also subject to the provisions of:




(1) Part 60 of this chapter will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart, except as specified in §§ 60.480a(e)(2)(i) and 60.480b(e)(2)(i) of this chapter.






(2) 40 CFR part 61 will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart.


(c) If a process unit subject to the provisions of this subpart has equipment to which this subpart does not apply, but which is subject to a standard identified in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment in the process unit. If the owner or operator elects this method of compliance, all VOC in such equipment shall be considered, for purposes of applicability and compliance with this subpart, as if it were organic hazardous air pollutant (HAP). Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph, shall be deemed to constitute compliance with the standard identified in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(1) Part 60, subpart VV, VVa, VVb, GGG, or KKK, of this chapter, except as specified in §§ 60.480a(e)(2)(i) and 60.480b(e)(2)(i) of this chapter;


(2) Part 61, subpart F or J of this chapter; or


(3) Part 264, subpart BB of this chapter or part 265, subpart BB of this chapter.




(d) The provisions in § 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section.


(e) Except as provided in any subpart that references this subpart, lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this subpart. Utilities, and other non-process lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process unit.


(f) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to research and development facilities or to bench-scale batch processes, regardless of whether the facilities or processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.


(g) *Alternative means of compliance*—For each source as defined in § 63.101, and for each source as defined in § 63.191, on and after July 15, 2027, this paragraph no longer applies.


(1) *Option to comply with 40 CFR part 65.* Owners or operators of CMPU that are subject to § 63.100 may choose to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 65 for all Group 1 and Group 2 process vents, Group 1 storage vessels, Group 1 transfer operations, and equipment that are subject to § 63.100, that are part of the CMPU. Other provisions applying to an owner or operator who chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.


















(2) *Part 65, subpart C or F.* For owners or operators choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, each surge control vessel and bottoms receiver subject to § 63.100 that meets the conditions specified in table 2 or table 3 of this subpart shall meet the requirements for storage vessels in 40 CFR part 65, subpart C; all other equipment subject to § 63.100 shall meet the requirements in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F. 


(3) *Part 63, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, for equipment subject to § 63.100 must also comply with the applicable general provisions of this part 63 listed in table 4 of this subpart. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in table 4 of this subpart do not apply to owners or operators of equipment subject to § 63.100 of subpart F complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C or F, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.



---

[N] [59 FR 19568, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 48176, Sept. 20, 1994; 59 FR 53360, Oct. 24, 1994; 60 FR 18029, Apr. 10, 1995; 61 FR 31439, June 20, 1996; 64 FR 20198, Apr. 26, 1999; 65 FR 78285, Dec. 14, 2000; 89 FR 43220, May 16, 2024]
















