# § 982.637   Homeownership option: Move with continued tenant-based assistance.

(a) *Move to new unit.* (1) A family receiving homeownership assistance may move to a new unit with continued tenant-based assistance in accordance with this section. The family may move either with voucher rental assistance (in accordance with rental assistance program requirements) or with voucher homeownership assistance (in accordance with homeownership option program requirements). 


(2) The PHA may not commence continued tenant-based assistance for occupancy of the new unit so long as any family member owns any title or other interest in the prior home. However, when the family or a member of the family is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member (or any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move), such family or family member may be assisted with continued tenant-based assistance even if such family or family member owns any title or other interest in the prior home.


(3) The PHA may establish policies that prohibit more than one move by the family during any one-year period. However, these policies do not apply when the family or a member of the family is or has been the victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as provided in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, and the move is needed to protect the health or safety of the family or family member, or any family member has been the victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period preceding the family's request to move.


(b) *Requirements for continuation of homeownership assistance.* The PHA must determine that all initial requirements listed in § 982.626 (including the environmental requirements with respect to a unit not yet under construction) have been satisfied if a family that has received homeownership assistance wants to move to such a unit with continued homeownership assistance. However, the following requirements do not apply:


(1) The requirement for pre-assistance counseling (§ 982.630) is not applicable. However, the PHA may require that the family complete additional counseling (before or after moving to a new unit with continued assistance under the homeownership option). 


(2) The requirement that a family must be a first-time homeowner (§ 982.627) is not applicable. 


(c) *When PHA may deny permission to move with continued assistance.* The PHA may deny permission to move to a new unit with continued voucher assistance as follows: 


(1) *Lack of funding to provide continued assistance.* The PHA may deny permission to move with continued rental or homeownership assistance if the PHA determines that it does not have sufficient funding to provide continued assistance. The PHA must provide written notification to the local HUD Office within 10 business days of determining it is necessary to deny moves based on insufficient funding.


(2) *Termination or denial of assistance under § 982.638.* At any time, the PHA may deny permission to move with continued rental or homeownership assistance in accordance with § 982.638. 



---

[N] [63 FR 23865, Apr. 30, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 59938, Oct. 22, 2007; 80 FR 50575, Aug. 20, 2015; 81 FR 80817, Nov. 16, 2016]




