# ยง 301.75-13   Compliance agreements.

(a) *Eligibility.* Any person engaged in the business of growing or handling regulated articles for interstate movement may enter into a compliance agreement with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to facilitate the interstate movement of regulated articles in accordance with this subpart. Compliance agreements may be arranged by contacting a local office of Plant Protection and Quarantine, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (listed in local telephone directories), or by contacting the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Plant Protection and Quarantine, Domestic and Emergency Operations, 4700 River Road Unit 134, Riverdale, Maryland 20737-1236. 


(b) *Cancellation.* Any compliance agreement may be cancelled orally or in writing by an inspector if the inspector finds that the person who entered into the compliance agreement has failed to comply with this subpart, or any term or condition of the compliance agreement itself. If the person is given notice of cancellation orally, written confirmation of the decision and the reasons for it must be provided as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose compliance agreement is cancelled may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the compliance agreement was wrongfully cancelled. The Administrator must grant or deny the appeal, in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. 



---

[N] [55 FR 37453, Sept. 11, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 67608, Dec. 30, 1994; 76 FR 23457, Apr. 27, 2011; 88 FR 85470, Dec. 8, 2023]




