# ยง 200.936   Supplementary specific procedural requirements under HUD building products certification program for solid fuel type room heaters and fireplace stoves.

(a) *Applicable standards.* Solid fuel type room heaters and fireplace stoves certified under the HUD Building Products Certification Program shall be designed, assembled and tested in conformance with the following standards, which are incorporated by reference:


(1) ANSI/UL 737 (1978), for fireplace stoves;


(2) ANSI/UL 1482 (1979), for solid fuel type room heaters with coal amendments.


(b) *Labelling.* (1) Under the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of ยง 200.935, concerning labelling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standards are required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. In the case of solid fuel type room heaters and fireplace stoves, the following additional information must be included on the certification label:


(i) The manufacturer's statement of conformance to the HUD Building Products Certification Program;


(ii) The manufacturer's name and the identity and location of manufacturing plant;


(iii) The specification designation and manufacturer series or model number; and


(iv) The type of fuel to be used.


(2) The certification label must be permanently affixed to the heater or stove and be readily visible after the heater or stove is installed.


(c) *Periodic tests and quality control inspections.* Under the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(8) of ยง 200.935, concerning periodic tests and quality control inspections, the frequency of testing for a product must be described in the specific building product certification program. In the case of solid fuel type room heaters and fireplace stoves, testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows:


(1) Once every four years, beginning with the initial administrator visit, a sample of each certified product shall be selected by the administrator for testing for compliance with the applicable standards in a laboratory which has been accredited under the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program.


(2) The administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility two times a year to assure that the initially accepted quality control procedures are being followed.



---

[N] [48 FR 1955, Jan. 17, 1983]




