# § 438.810   Expenditures for enrollment broker services.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Enrollment activities* means activities such as distributing, collecting, and processing enrollment materials and taking enrollments by phone, in person, or through electronic methods of communication.


*Enrollment broker* means an individual or entity that performs choice counseling or enrollment activities, or both.


*Enrollment services* means choice counseling, or enrollment activities, or both.


(b) *Conditions that enrollment brokers must meet.* State expenditures for the use of enrollment brokers are considered necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the State plan and thus eligible for FFP only if the broker and its subcontractors meet the following conditions:


(1) *Independence.* The broker and its subcontractors are independent of any MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, PCCM entity or other health care provider in the State in which they provide enrollment services. A broker or subcontractor is not considered “independent” if it—


(i) Is an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, PCCM entity or other health care provider in the State;


(ii) Is owned or controlled by an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, PCCM entity or other health care provider in the State; or


(iii) Owns or controls an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, PCCM entity, or other health care provider in the State.


(2) *Freedom from conflict of interest.* The broker and its subcontractor are free from conflict of interest. A broker or subcontractor is not considered free from conflict of interest if any person who is the owner, employee, or consultant of the broker or subcontractor or has any contract with them—


(i) Has any direct or indirect financial interest in any entity or health care provider that furnishes services in the State in which the broker or subcontractor provides enrollment services;


(ii) Has been excluded from participation under Title XVIII or XIX of the Act;


(iii) Has been debarred by any Federal agency; or


(iv) Has been, or is now, subject to civil money penalties under the Act.


(3) *Approval.* The initial contract or memorandum of agreement (MOA) for services performed by the broker has been reviewed and approved by CMS.




