# § 63.2343   What are my requirements for emission sources not requiring control?

This section establishes the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements for emission sources identified in § 63.2338 that do not require control under this subpart (*i.e.,* under § 63.2346(a) through (e)). Such emission sources are not subject to any other notification, recordkeeping, or reporting sections in this subpart, including § 63.2350(c), except as indicated in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.


(a) For each storage tank subject to this subpart having a capacity of less than 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) and for each transfer rack subject to this subpart that only unloads organic liquids (*i.e.,* no organic liquids are loaded at any of the transfer racks), you must keep documentation that verifies that each storage tank and transfer rack identified in this paragraph (a) is not required to be controlled. The documentation must be kept up-to-date (*i.e.,* all such emission sources at a facility are identified in the documentation regardless of when the documentation was last compiled) and must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious inspection and review according to § 63.10(b)(1), including records stored in electronic form in a separate location. The documentation may consist of identification of the tanks and transfer racks identified in this paragraph (a) on a plant site plan or process and instrumentation diagram (P&ID).


(b) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, for each storage tank subject to this subpart having a capacity of 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) or more that is not subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 1 through 6, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1)(i) You must submit the information in § 63.2386(c)(1), (2), (3), and (10)(i) in either the Notification of Compliance Status, according to the schedule specified in Table 12 to this subpart, or in your first Compliance report, according to the schedule specified in § 63.2386(b), whichever occurs first.


(ii)(A) If you submit your first Compliance report before your Notification of Compliance Status, the Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4) if any of the changes identified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the first Compliance report. If none of the changes identified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the first Compliance report, you do not need to report the information specified in § 63.2386(c)(10)(i) when you submit your Notification of Compliance Status.


(B) If you submit your Notification of Compliance Status before your first Compliance report, your first Compliance report must contain the information specified in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4) if any of the changes specified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the Notification of Compliance Status.


(iii) If you are already submitting a Notification of Compliance Status or a first Compliance report under § 63.2386(c), you do not need to submit a separate Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report for each storage tank that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (b) of this section (i.e., a single Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report should be submitted).


(2)(i) You must submit a subsequent Compliance report according to the schedule in § 63.2386(b) whenever any of the events in paragraph (d) of this section occur, as applicable.


(ii) Your subsequent Compliance reports must contain the information in § 63.2386(c)(1), (2), (3) and, as applicable, in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4). If you are already submitting a subsequent Compliance report under § 63.2386(d), you do not need to submit a separate subsequent Compliance report for each storage tank that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (b) of this section (i.e., a single subsequent Compliance report should be submitted).


(3) For each storage tank that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must keep documentation, including a record of the annual average true vapor pressure of the total Table 1 organic HAP in the stored organic liquid, that verifies the storage tank is not required to be controlled under this subpart. The documentation must be kept up-to-date and must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious inspection and review according to § 63.10(b)(1), including records stored in electronic form in a separate location.


(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section apply to the following storage tanks:


(i) Storage tanks at an existing affected source subject to this subpart having a capacity of 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) or more that are not subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2b to this subpart, items 1 through 3.


(ii) Storage tanks at a reconstructed or new affected source subject to this subpart having a capacity of 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) or more that are not subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 3 through 6.


(c) For each transfer rack subject to this subpart that loads organic liquids but is not subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1)(i) You must submit the information in § 63.2386(c)(1), (2), (3), and (10)(i) in either the Notification of Compliance Status, according to the schedule specified in Table 12 to this subpart, or a first Compliance report, according to the schedule specified in § 63.2386(b), whichever occurs first.


(ii)(A) If you submit your first Compliance report before your Notification of Compliance Status, the Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4) if any of the changes identified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the first Compliance report. If none of the changes identified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the first Compliance report, you do not need to report the information specified in § 63.2386(c)(10)(i) when you submit your Notification of Compliance Status.


(B) If you submit your Notification of Compliance Status before your first Compliance report, your first Compliance report must contain the information specified in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4) if any of the changes specified in paragraph (d) of this section have occurred since the filing of the Notification of Compliance Status.


(iii) If you are already submitting a Notification of Compliance Status or a first Compliance report under § 63.2386(c), you do not need to submit a separate Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report for each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in this paragraph (c) (*i.e.,* a single Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report should be submitted).


(2)(i) You must submit a subsequent Compliance report according to the schedule in § 63.2386(b) whenever any of the events in paragraph (d) of this section occur, as applicable.


(ii) Your subsequent Compliance reports must contain the information in § 63.2386(c)(1), (2), (3) and, as applicable, in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4). If you are already submitting a subsequent Compliance report under § 63.2386(d), you do not need to submit a separate subsequent Compliance report for each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (c) of this section (i.e., a single subsequent Compliance report should be submitted).


(3) For each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must keep documentation, including the records specified in § 63.2390(d), that verifies the transfer rack is not required to be controlled under this subpart. The documentation must be kept up-to-date and must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious inspection and review according to § 63.10(b)(1), including records stored in electronic form in a separate location. 


(d) If one or more of the events identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section occur since the filing of the Notification of Compliance Status or the last Compliance report, you must submit a subsequent Compliance report as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section.


(1) Any storage tank or transfer rack became subject to control under this subpart EEEE; or


(2) Any storage tank equal to or greater than 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) became part of the affected source but is not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart; or


(3) Any transfer rack (except those racks at which only unloading of organic liquids occurs) became part of the affected source; or


(4) Any of the information required in § 63.2386(c)(1), § 63.2386(c)(2), or § 63.2386(c)(3) has changed.



---

[N] [71 FR 42906, July 28, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 21830, Apr. 23, 2008; 85 FR 40761, July 7, 2020]




