# ยง 960.101   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


(a) The term *Director* means the Director of the United States Office of Personnel Management.


(b) The term *Executive agency* means a department, agency, or independent establishment in the Executive Branch.


(c) The term *metropolitan area* means a geographic zone surrounding a major city, as defined and delimited from time to time by the Director.


(d) The term *principal area officer* means, with respect to an Executive agency, the senior official of the Executive agency who is located in a metropolitan area and who has no superior official within that metropolitan area other than in the Regional Office of the Executive agency. Where an Executive agency maintains facilities of more than one bureau or other subdivision within the metropolitan area, and where the heads of those facilities are in separate chains of command within the Executive agency, then the Executive agency may have more than one principal area officer.


(e) The term *principal regional officer* means, with respect to an Executive agency, the senior official in a Regional Office of the Executive agency.


(f) The term *special representative* means, with respect to an Executive agency, an official who is not subject to the supervision of a principal regional officer or a principal area officer and who is specifically designated by the head of the Executive agency to serve as the personal representative of the head of the Executive agency.




