# ยง 97.3   Definitions.

These terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this part.


*Chief legal advisors.* (1) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense (GC DoD).


(2) The General Counsel of a Military Department.


(3) The Legal Counsel to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


(4) The Judge Advocate General of a Military Service.


(5) The Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps.


(6) The Staff Judge Advocate to a Combatant Commander.


(7) The General Counsel to the Inspector General of the Department of Defense.


(8) The General Counsel of a Defense Agency.


(9) The General Counsel of a DoD Field Activity.


(10) The chief legal advisor of any other organizational entity within the DoD.


*Court.* A Federal, State, or local court, tribunal, commission, board, or other adjudicative body of competent jurisdiction.


*Demand.* An order or subpoena by a court of competent jurisdiction for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel at deposition or trial.


*Disclosure.* The release of official information in litigation or the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel.


*Litigation.* All pretrial (e.g., discovery), trial, and post-trial stages of existing judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before a civilian court, whether foreign or domestic.


*Litigation request.* Any written request by a party in litigation or the party's attorney for the production or release of official information or for the presentation of witness testimony by DoD personnel at deposition, trial, or similar proceeding.


*Official information.* All information of any kind and however stored that is in the custody and control of the DoD, relates to information in the custody and control of the DoD, or was acquired by DoD personnel due to their official duties or status.


*Personnel.* (1) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) Service members, including Service academy cadets and midshipmen.


(2) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) civilian employees of a DoD Component, including non-appropriated fund activity employees.


(3) Present and former (e.g., retired, separated) employees of another Federal agency assigned to, detailed to, or otherwise affiliated with a DoD Component.


(4) Non-U.S. nationals who perform or have performed services overseas for any of the Military Services in accordance with a status of forces agreement.


(5) Any individuals who perform or have performed services for a DoD Component through a contractual arrangement.






