# § 97.921   Recordation of Texas SO

(a) By November 1, 2018, the Administrator will record in each Texas SO_2_ Trading Program source's compliance account the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowances allocated to the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program units at the source in accordance with § 97.911(a) for the control periods in 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022.


(b)(1) By July 1, 2019 and July 1, 2020, the Administrator will record in each Texas SO_2_ Trading Program source's compliance account the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowances allocated to the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program units at the source in accordance with § 97.911(a) for the control period in the fourth year after the year of the applicable recordation deadline under this paragraph, unless provided otherwise in the Administrator's approval of a SIP revision replacing the provisions of this subpart.


(2) By July 1, 2024 and July 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will record in each Texas SO_2_ Trading Program source's compliance account the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowances allocated to the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program units at the source in accordance with § 97.911(a) for the control period in the year after the year of the applicable recordation deadline under this paragraph, unless provided otherwise in the Administrator's approval of a SIP revision replacing the provisions of this subpart.


(c) By February 15 of 2020 and 2021 and May 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will record in each Texas SO_2_ Trading Program source's compliance account the allowances allocated from the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program Supplemental Allowance Pool in accordance with § 97.912 for the control period in the year before the year of the applicable recordation deadline under this paragraph, unless provided otherwise in the Administrator's approval of a SIP revision replacing the provisions of this subpart.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) When recording the allocation of Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowances to a Texas SO_2_ Trading Program unit in an Allowance Management System account, the Administrator will assign each Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowance a unique identification number that will include digits identifying the year of the control period for which the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowance is allocated.


(f) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, with respect to the Texas SO_2_ Trading Program allowances allocated to Newman Unit **5 in accordance with § 97.911(a) for the control periods in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, the Administrator will record the allowances in the source's compliance account by December 31, 2020, unless provided otherwise in the Administrator's approval of a SIP revision replacing the provisions of this subpart.



---

[N] [82 FR 48364, Oct. 17, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 49218, Aug. 12, 2020; 86 FR 23208, Apr. 30, 2021; 87 FR 52481, Aug. 26, 2022]




