# § 23.47   What are the requirements for export of an Appendix-I plant artificially propagated for commercial purposes?

(a) *Purpose.* Article VII(4) of the Treaty provides that Appendix-I plants artificially propagated for commercial purposes shall be deemed to be listed in Appendix II. This means that an Appendix-I specimen originating from a commercial nursery that is registered with the CITES Secretariat or that meets the requirements of this section may be traded under an export permit or re-export certificate based on Appendix-II criteria. The specimen is still listed in Appendix I and is not eligible for any exemption granted to an Appendix-II species or taxon, including any exemption granted by an annotation. This section does not apply to hybrids of one or more Appendix-I species or taxa that are not annotated to treat hybrids as Appendix-I specimens (see § 23.40).


(b) *U.S. and foreign general provisions.* The following provisions apply to the issuance and acceptance of export permits for Appendix-I specimens artificially propagated for commercial purposes:


(1) An Appendix-I specimen may not be imported for purposes of establishing or augmenting a nursery or commercial propagating operation, unless the specimen is pre-Convention (see § 23.45) or was propagated at a nursery that is registered with the CITES Secretariat or a commercial propagating operation that qualifies under paragraph (d) of this section, and the CITES document indicates the source code as “D.”


(2) An export permit may be issued to a CITES-registered nursery, to a commercial propagating operation that qualifies under paragraph (d) of this section, or to persons who have acquired a specimen that originated at such a nursery or operation. No CITES import permit is required for a qualifying specimen.


(3) The export permit, and any subsequent re-export certificate, must show the specimen as listed in Appendix I and the source code as “D,” and if from a nursery registered with the Secretariat, give the identification number of the registered nursery where the specimen originated.


(c) *U.S. application form.* Complete Form 3-200-33 or Form 3-200-74 (for additional single-use permits under a master file or an annual export program file). Complete Form 3-200-32 for one-time export. Submit the completed form to the U.S. Management Authority.


(d) *Criteria.* The criteria in this paragraph (d) apply to the issuance and acceptance of U.S. and foreign export permits. When applying for a U.S. permit, you must provide sufficient information for us to find that your proposed activity meets all of the following criteria:


(e) *Nursery registration.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [72 FR 48448, Aug. 23, 2007, as amended at 79 FR 30426, May 27, 2014]




