# ยง 391.25   Annual inquiry and review of driving record.

(a) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, each motor carrier shall, at least once every 12 months, make an inquiry to obtain the motor vehicle record of each driver it employs, covering at least the preceding 12 months, to each driver's licensing authority where the driver held a commercial motor vehicle operator's license or permit during the time period.


(b) Except as provided in subpart G of this part, each motor carrier shall, at least once every 12 months, review the motor vehicle record of each driver it employs to determine whether that driver meets minimum requirements for safe driving or is disqualified to drive a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to ยง 391.15.


(1) The motor carrier must consider any evidence that the driver has violated any applicable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations in this subchapter or Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR chapter I, subchapter C).


(2) The motor carrier must consider the driver's accident record and any evidence that the driver has violated laws governing the operation of motor vehicles, and must give great weight to violations, such as speeding, reckless driving, and operating while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, that indicate that the driver has exhibited a disregard for the safety of the public.


(c)(1) A copy of the motor vehicle record required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be maintained in the driver's qualification file.


(2) A note, including the name of the person who performed the review of the driving record required by paragraph (b) of this section and the date of such review, shall be maintained in the driver's qualification file.



---

[N] [63 FR 33277, June 18, 1998, as amended at 73 FR 73127, Dec. 1, 2008; 87 FR 13209, Mar. 9, 2022; 87 FR 59036, Sept. 29, 2022]




