# § 721.5763   Methylenebisbenzotriazolyl phenols.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as methylenebisbenzotriazolyl phenols (P-94-1042) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(5)(i) apply during manufacture of the PMN substance. Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii) apply during use of the PMN substance. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (l) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.575(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [60 FR 45083, Aug. 30, 1995]




