# § 4.1023   What are the requirements for motions for recommended summary decision, responses, and issuance of a recommended summary decision?

(a) *Motion for recommended summary decision or partial recommended summary decision.* A party may move for a recommended summary decision, identifying each issue on which summary decision is sought. The ALJ may issue a recommended summary decision if the movant shows that there is no genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to a recommended decision as a matter of law. The ALJ should state on the record the reasons for granting or denying the motion.


(b) *Time to file a motion.* Except as otherwise ordered by the ALJ, a party may file a motion for recommended summary decision on all or part of the proceeding at any time after DCHD issues a docketing notice under § 4.1020.


(c) *Procedures*—(1) *Supporting factual positions.* A party asserting that a fact cannot be or is genuinely disputed must support the assertion by:


(i) Citing to particular parts of materials in the hearing process record, including affidavits or declarations, stipulations (including those made for purposes of the motion only), or other materials; or


(ii) Showing that the materials cited do not establish the absence or presence of a genuine dispute, or that an adverse party cannot produce admissible evidence to support the fact.


(2) *Objection that a fact is not supported by admissible evidence.* A party may object that the material cited to support or dispute a fact cannot be presented in a form that would be admissible in evidence.


(3) *Materials not cited.* The ALJ need consider only the cited materials, but the ALJ may consider other materials in the hearing process record.


(4) *Affidavits or declarations.* An affidavit or declaration used to support or oppose a motion must be made on personal knowledge, set out facts that would be admissible in evidence, and show that the affiant or declarant is competent to testify on the matters stated.


(d) *When facts are unavailable to the nonmovant.* If a nonmovant shows by affidavit or declaration that, for specified reasons, it cannot present facts essential to justify its opposition, the ALJ may:


(1) Defer considering the motion or deny it;


(2) Allow time to obtain affidavits or declarations or, under extraordinary circumstances, to take discovery; or


(3) Issue any other appropriate order.


(e) *Failing to properly support or address a fact.* If a party fails to properly support an assertion of fact or fails to properly address another party's assertion of fact as required by paragraph (c) of this section, the ALJ may:


(1) Give an opportunity to properly support or address the fact;


(2) Consider the fact undisputed for purposes of the motion;


(3) Issue a recommended summary decision if the motion and supporting materials—including the facts considered undisputed—show that the movant is entitled to it; or


(4) Issue any other appropriate order.


(f) *Issuing a recommended summary decision independent of the motion.* After giving notice and a reasonable time to respond, the ALJ may:


(1) Issue a recommended summary decision for a nonmovant;


(2) Grant a motion for recommended summary decision on grounds not raised by a party; or


(3) Consider issuing a recommended summary decision on his or her own after identifying for the parties material facts that may not be genuinely in dispute.


(g) *Failing to grant all the requested relief.* If the ALJ does not grant all the relief requested by the motion, the ALJ may enter an order stating any material fact that is not genuinely in dispute and treating the fact as established in the case.




