# § 63.1428   Process vent requirements for group determination of PMPUs using a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product.

(a) *Process vents from batch unit operations.* The owner or operator shall determine, for each PMPU located at an affected source, if the combination of all process vents from batch unit operations that are associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product is a Group 1 combination of batch process vents, as defined in § 63.1423. The annual uncontrolled nonepoxide organic HAP emissions, determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and annual average flow rate, determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, shall be determined for all process vents from batch unit operations associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product, with the exception of those vents specified in paragraph (i) of this section, at the location after all applicable control techniques have been applied to reduce epoxide emissions in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) If the owner or operator is using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device.


(2) If the owner or operator is using ECO to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit from the batch unit operation. For the purpose of these determinations, the primary condenser operating as a reflux condenser on a reactor or distillation column shall be considered part of the unit operation.


(b) *Determination of annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions.* The owner or operator shall determine, for each PMPU, the total annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from the combination of all process vents from batch unit operations that are associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions for each process vent from a batch unit operation associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product shall be determined using the batch process vent procedures in the NESHAP for Group I Polymers and Resins (40 CFR part 63, subpart U), § 63.488(b).


(2) The owner or operator shall sum the annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from all individual process vents from batch unit operations in a PMPU, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, to obtain the total nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from the combination of process vents associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product, for the PMPU.


(c) *Minimum emission level exemption.* If the annual emissions of TOC or nonepoxide organic HAP from the combination of process vents from batch unit operations that are associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify a polyether polyol for a PMPU are less than 11,800 kg/yr, the owner or operator of that PMPU is not required to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.


(d) *Determination of average flow rate and annual average flow rate.* The owner or operator shall determine, for each PMPU, the total annual average flow rate for the combination of all process vents from batch unit operations that are associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify a product in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The annual average flow rate for each process vent from batch unit operations that is associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product shall be determined using the batch process vent procedures in the NESHAP for Group I Polymers and Resins (40 CFR part 63, subpart U), § 63.488(e).


(2) The owner or operator shall sum the annual average flow rates from the individual process vents from batch unit operations in a PMPU, determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, to obtain the total annual average flow rate for the combination of process vents associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product, for the PMPU.


(e) *Determination of cutoff flow rate.* For each PMPU at an affected source that uses nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product, the owner or operator shall calculate the cutoff flow rate using Equation 14.


(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Process changes affecting Group 2 combinations of process vents in a PMPU that are from batch unit operations.* Whenever process changes, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, are made that affect a Group 2 combination of batch process vents and that could reasonably be expected to change the group status from Group 2 to Group 1, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.


(1) Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, increases in production capacity or production rate, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type; or whenever there is replacement, removal, or modification of recovery equipment considered part of the batch unit operation. Any change that results in an increase in the annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from the estimate used in the previous group determination constitutes a process change for the purpose of these provisions. Process changes do not include: process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the margin of variation on which the original group determination was based.


(2) For each process affected by a process change, the owner or operator shall redetermine the group status by repeating the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, as applicable, and determining if the combination of process vents is a Group 1 combination of batch process vents, as defined in § 63.1423. Alternatively, engineering assessment, as described in § 63.488(b)(6)(i), may be used to determine the effects of the process change.


(3) Based on the results of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If the redetermination described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section indicates that the group status of the combination of process vents from batch unit operations in a PMPU that are associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product changes from Group 2 to Group 1 as a result of the process change, the owner or operator shall submit a report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(6)(iii)(D)(*1*) and shall comply with Group 1 combination of batch process vents provisions in this subpart, as specified in § 63.1425(c)(1). 


(ii) If the redetermination described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section indicates no change in group status, the owner or operator is not required to submit a report.


(h) *Process vents from continuous unit operations.* (1) The owner or operator shall determine the total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value for each process vent from a continuous unit operation that is associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product. To determine the TRE index value, the owner or operator shall conduct a TRE determination and calculate the TRE index value according to the HON process vent group determination procedures in § 63.115(d)(1) or (2) and the TRE equation in § 63.115(d)(3). The TRE index value shall be determined at the location after all applicable control techniques have been applied to reduce epoxide emissions in accordance with paragraph (h)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(i) If the owner or operator uses one or more nonepoxide recovery devices after all control techniques to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be after the last nonepoxide recovery device.


(ii) If the owner or operator does not use a nonepoxide recovery device after a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device.


(iii) If the owner or operator does not use a nonepoxide recovery device after extended cookout to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit from the continuous unit operation. For the purpose of these determinations, the primary condenser operating as a reflux condenser on a reactor or distillation column shall be considered part of the unit operation.


(2) The owner or operator of a Group 2 continuous process vent shall recalculate the TRE index value as necessary to determine whether the process vent is Group 1 or Group 2, whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the process vent to Group 1. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, increases in production capacity or production rate, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original TRE calculation was based.


(i) The TRE index value shall be recalculated based on measurements of process vent stream flow rate, TOC, and nonepoxide organic HAP concentrations, and heating values as specified in the HON process vent group determination procedures in § 63.115(a), (b), (c), and (d), as applicable, or on best engineering assessment of the effects of the change. Engineering assessments shall meet the specifications in § 63.115(d)(1).


(ii) Where the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 1.0, or, where the TRE index value before the process change was greater than 4.0 and the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 4.0 but greater than 1.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report as specified in the process vent reporting and recordkeeping provisions in § 63.1430(i) or (j), and shall comply with the appropriate provisions in the process vent control requirements in § 63.1425 by the dates specified in § 63.1422 (the section describing compliance dates for sources subject to this subpart).


(iii) Where the recalculated TRE index value is greater than 4.0, the owner or operator is not required to submit a report.


(i) *Combination of process vents from batch unit operations and process vents from continuous unit operations.* If an owner or operator combines a process vent from a batch unit operation that is associated with the use of a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product with a process vent from a continuous unit operation that is associated with the use of a nonepoxide prior to the epoxide control technique, or prior to a nonepoxide recovery device that is after the epoxide control technique, then the provisions in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section shall apply.


(1) The process vent from the batch unit operation is not required to be included in the group determination required by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.


(2) The TRE index value of the combined stream shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section, and the TRE index value shall be calculated during a period when nonepoxide organic HAP emissions are being generated by the batch unit operation.



---

[N] [64 FR 29439, June 1, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 26501, May 8, 2000; 79 FR 17377, Mar. 27, 2014]




