# § 423.560   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise—


*Appeal* means any of the procedures that deal with the review of adverse coverage determinations made by the Part D plan sponsor on the benefits under a Part D plan the enrollee believes he or she is entitled to receive, including delay in providing or approving the drug coverage (when a delay would adversely affect the health of the enrollee), or on any amounts the enrollee must pay for the drug coverage, as defined in § 423.566(b). Appeal also includes the review of at-risk determinations made under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f). These procedures include redeterminations by the Part D plan sponsor, reconsiderations by the independent review entity, ALJ hearings, reviews by the Medicare Appeals Council (Council), and judicial reviews.


*At-risk determination* means a decision made under a plan sponsor's drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f) that involves the identification of an individual as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse; a limitation, or the continuation of a limitation, on an at-risk beneficiary's access to coverage for frequently abused drugs (that is, a beneficiary specific point-of-sale edit or the selection of a prescriber and/or pharmacy and implementation of lock-in, or); and information sharing for subsequent plan enrollments.


*Drug Use* means an enrollee is receiving the drug in the course of treatment, including time off if it is part of the treatment.


*Enrollee* means a Part D eligible individual who has elected or has been enrolled in a Part D plan.


*Grievance* means any complaint or dispute, other than one that involves a coverage determination or at-risk determination, expressing dissatisfaction with any aspect of the operations, activities, or behavior of a Part D plan sponsor, regardless of whether remedial action is requested.


*Other prescriber* means a health care professional other than a physician who is authorized under State law or other applicable law to write prescriptions.


*Physician* has the meaning given the term in section 1861(r) of the Act.


*Projected value* of a Part D drug or drugs includes any costs the enrollee could incur based on the number of refills prescribed for the drug(s) in dispute during the plan year. Projected value includes enrollee co-payments, all expenditures incurred after an enrollee's expenditures exceed the initial coverage limit, and expenditures paid by other entities.


*Reconsideration* means a review of an adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination by an independent review entity (IRE), the evidence and findings upon which it was based, and any other evidence the enrollee submits or the IRE obtains.


*Redetermination* means a review of an adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination by a Part D plan sponsor, the evidence and findings upon which it is based, and any other evidence the enrollee submits or the Part D plan sponsor obtains.


*Representative* means an individual either appointed by an enrollee or authorized under State or other applicable law to act on behalf of the enrollee in filing a grievance, obtaining a coverage determination, or in dealing with any of the levels of the appeals process. Unless otherwise stated in this subpart, the representative has all of the rights and responsibilities of an enrollee in filing a grievance, obtaining a coverage determination, or in dealing with any of the levels of the appeals process, subject to the rules described in part 422, subpart M, of this chapter.


*Specialty tier:* (1) Before January 1, 2022, means a formulary cost-sharing tier dedicated to very high cost Part D drugs that exceed a cost threshold established by the Secretary; and


(2) Beginning January 1, 2022, has the meaning given the term in § 423.104.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 20507, Apr. 15, 2008; 74 FR 1546, Jan. 12, 2009; 82 FR 5125, Jan. 17, 2017; 83 FR 16750, Apr. 16, 2018; 86 FR 6119, Jan. 19, 2021]




