# § 1471.1   Provisions common to this subpart.

(a) *Agriculture Pima Trust*—(1) *Establishment.* The Agriculture Pima Trust has been established to provide funding for payments under this subpart.


(2) *Purpose.* The purpose of the Agriculture Pima Trust is to reduce the injury to domestic manufacturers resulting from tariffs on cotton fabric that are higher than tariffs on certain apparel articles made of cotton fabric.


(3) *Funding availability.* $16,000,000 will be available annually for eligible payments authorized under this subpart.


(4) *Definitions.* As used in this subpart:


*Agriculture Pima Trust* means the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund.


*CCC* means the Commodity Credit Corporation.


*FAS* means the Foreign Agricultural Service.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture.


*U.S.* means the United States of America.


(b) *Other provisions common to this subpart*—(1) *Affidavits.* FAS shall annually, not later than February 15 of the year of the applicable payment, make affidavits available on the FAS website. Affidavits must be submitted in accordance with the instructions provided on the FAS website.


(2) *Filing deadline.* Any person filing an affidavit under this subpart for a particular year must file the affidavit not later than March 15 of the applicable calendar year.


(3) *Affirmation.* By submitting an affidavit under this subpart, an applicant is affirming that all information contained in the application is complete and correct and that the information does not contain a false claim, statement, or representation.


(4) *Document retention.* All persons receiving a payment under this subpart must maintain all pertinent documentation for 3 years after the year of receipt of the payment.


(5) *False statements.* Persons providing false or fraudulent claims, or persons making materially false statements or representations in their affidavit, are subject to civil or criminal penalties pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.


(6) *Confidentiality.* Specific business information that is marked “business confidential” will be protected from disclosure to the full extent permitted by law.


(7) *Review of affidavits.* Affidavits will be reviewed to determine whether they are complete and responsive to the content and form of affidavit requirements under this subpart.


(8) *Finality of determinations by Secretary.* A determination by the Secretary about a payment under this subpart shall be final and is not subject to appeal or protest.


(9) *Timing of payments.* A payment for which a person is eligible under this subpart will be disbursed not later than April 15 of the applicable year.


(10) *Sequester.* Payments covered by this subpart shall be subject to sequester of payments, if required by law.






