# § 550.113   Computation of overtime pay.

(a) For each employee whose rate of basic pay does not exceed the minimum rate for GS-10 (including any applicable special rate of pay for law enforcement officers or special pay adjustment for law enforcement officers under section 403 or 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-509), respectively; a locality-based comparability payment under 5 U.S.C. 5304; and any applicable special rate of pay under 5 U.S.C. 5305 or similar provision of law), the overtime hourly rate is 1
1/2 times his or her hourly rate of basic pay.


(b) For each employee whose rate of basic pay exceeds the minimum rate for GS-10 (as determined under paragraph (a) of this section), the overtime hourly rate is equal to the greater of—(i) one and one-half times the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as determined under paragraph (a) of this section); or (ii) the employee's hourly rate of basic pay, except as provided in 5 U.S.C. 5542(a)(3) and (5).


(c) An employee is paid for overtime work performed on a Sunday or a holiday at the same rate as for overtime work performed on another day. 


(d) An employee whose rate of basic pay is fixed on an annual or monthly basis and adjusted from time to time in accordance with prevailing rates by a wage board or similar administrative authority serving the same purpose is entitled to overtime pay in accordance with the provisions of section 5544 of title 5, United States Code. The rate of pay for each hour of overtime work of such an employee is computed as follows: 


(1) If the rate of basic pay of the employee is fixed on an annual basis, divide the rate of basic pay by 2,087 and multiply the quotient by one and one-half; and


(2) If the rate of basic pay of the employee is fixed on a monthly basis, multiply the rate of basic pay by 12 to derive an annual rate of basic pay, divide the annual rate of basic pay by 2,087, and multiply the quotient by one and one-half.


(e)(1) For firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part, the overtime hourly rate for all overtime hours is 1
1/2 times the firefighter's hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) or (b)(2), as applicable, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) For firefighters compensated under subpart M of this part who areexempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and whose hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) or (b)(2), as applicable, exceeds the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as computed under paragraph (a) of this section by dividing the annual rate of basic pay by 2087 hours), the overtime hourly rate is equal to the greater of—


(i) One and one-half times the applicable minimum hourly rate of basic pay for GS-10 (as computed under paragraph (a) of this section by dividing the annual rate of basic pay by 2087 hours); or


(ii) The individual's own firefighter hourly rate of basic pay under § 550.1303(a) and (b)(2), as applicable.



---

[N] [33 FR 12458, Sept. 4, 1968, as amended at 56 FR 20342, May 3, 1991; 57 FR 2434, Jan. 22, 1992; 59 FR 11701, Mar. 14, 1994; 61 FR 3542, Feb. 1, 1996; 63 FR 64592, Nov. 23, 1998; 69 FR 26476, May 13, 2004]




