# § 820.20   Purpose and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* This subpart establishes the procedures for investigating the nature and extent of violations of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements, for determining whether a violation of DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements has occurred, for imposing an appropriate remedy, and for adjudicating the assessment of a civil penalty.


(b) *Basis for civil penalties.* DOE may assess civil penalties against any person subject to the provisions of this part who has entered into an agreement of indemnification under 42 U.S.C. 2210(d) (or any subcontractor or supplier thereto), unless exempted from civil penalties as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on the basis of a violation of a DOE Nuclear Safety Requirement.


(c) *Exemptions.* With respect to a violation occurring under a contract entered into before August 8, 2005, the following contractors, and subcontractors and suppliers to that prime contract only, are exempt from the assessment of civil penalties under this subpart with respect to the activities specified below:


(1) The University of Chicago for activities associated with Argonne National Laboratory;


(2) The University of California for activities associated with Los Alamos National Laboratory, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;


(3) American Telephone and Telegraph Company and its subsidiaries for activities associated with Sandia National Laboratories;


(4) University Research Association, Inc. for activities associated with FERMI National Laboratory;


(5) Princeton University for activities associated with Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory;


(6) The Associated Universities, Inc. for activities associated with the Brookhaven National Laboratory; and


(7) Battelle Memorial Institute for activities associated with Pacific Northwest Laboratory.


(d) *Nonprofit educational institutions.* With respect to a violation occurring under a contract entered into before August 8, 2005, any educational institution that is considered nonprofit under the United States Internal Revenue Code shall receive automatic remission of any civil penalty assessed under this part.


(e) *Limitation for not-for-profits.* With respect to any violation occurring under a contract entered into on or after August 8, 2005, in the case of any not-for-profit contractor, subcontractor, or supplier, the total amount of civil penalties paid under this part may not exceed the total amount of fees paid by DOE to that entity within the U.S. Government fiscal year in which the violation occurs.


(f) *Not-for-profit.* For purposes of this part, a “not-for-profit” contractor, subcontractor, or supplier is one for which no part of the net earnings of the contractor, subcontractor, or supplier inures to the benefit of any natural person or for-profit artificial person.



---

[N] [58 FR 43692, Aug. 17, 1993, as amended at 74 FR 11843, Mar. 20, 2009; 81 FR 94914, Dec. 27, 2016]




