# ยง 234.403   Submission of data to the Crossing Inventory, generally.

(a) Highway-rail and pathway crossing data shall be submitted to the Crossing Inventory on the Inventory Form. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the Inventory Form may be submitted in hard copy or electronically.


(b) The Inventory Form, or its electronic equivalent, shall be completed in accordance with the Inventory Guide. A copy of this guide may be obtained from the Office of Railroad Safety, RRS-23, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., Washington, DC 20590. A copy of this guide can also be viewed or downloaded from FRA's Safety Data Web site under the Forms/Publications tab.


(c) Each Class I railroad shall submit the data required by paragraph (a) of this section to the Crossing Inventory electronically.


(d) *Reporting by State agencies on behalf of operating railroads.* A State agency may submit crossing data to the Crossing Inventory on behalf of an operating railroad. The State agency and the operating railroad shall provide written notice to the FRA Associate Administrator that the State agency has agreed to submit and update crossing data for all of the operating railroad's highway-rail and pathway crossings within the state.


(e) *Reporting by the parent corporation on behalf of subsidiary railroads.* (1) To satisfy the reporting requirements of this section, a parent corporation may submit crossing data to the Crossing Inventory on behalf of one or more of its subsidiary railroads. The parent corporation shall provide written notice to the FRA Associate Administrator that it has assumed reporting and updating responsibility for all of the subsidiary railroad's highway-rail and pathway crossings. The written notification shall include the following:


(i) A list of all subsidiary railroads for which the parent corporation will submit and update highway-rail and pathway crossing data;


(ii) A statement signed by an official of the parent corporation affirming that the parent corporation agrees to submit and update all of the highway-rail and pathway crossing data for the named subsidiary railroad(s); and


(iii) A statement that the parent corporation agrees to be subject to enforcement action for noncompliance with the reporting or updating requirements of this subpart.


(2) The parent corporation shall provide immediate written notification to the FRA Associate Administrator of any change in the list of subsidiary operating railroads for which it has assumed reporting and updating responsibility.


(3) The parent corporation shall submit the data required by paragraph (a) of this section to the Crossing Inventory electronically.



---

[N] [80 FR 786, Jan. 6, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 37532, June 10, 2015]




