# ยง 327.31   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart and subpart C:


(a) The *average assessment rate* for any assessment period means the aggregate assessment charged all insured depository institutions for that period divided by the aggregate assessment base for that period.


(b) *Board* means the Board of Directors of the FDIC.


(c) *De facto rule* means any transaction in which an insured depository institution assumes substantially all of the deposit liabilities and acquires substantially all of the assets of any other insured depository institution at the time of the transaction.


(d) An *eligible insured depository institution:*

(1) Means an insured depository institution that:


(i) Was in existence on December 31, 1996, and paid a deposit insurance assessment before December 31, 1996; or


(ii) Is a successor to an insured depository institution referred to in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section; and


(2) does not include an institution if its insured status has terminated as of or after the effective date of this regulation.


(e) *Merger* means any transaction in which an insured depository institution merges or consolidates with any other insured depository institution. Notwithstanding part 303, subpart D, for purposes of this subpart B and subpart C of this part, *merger* does not include transactions in which an insured depository institution either directly or indirectly acquires the assets of, or assumes liability to pay any deposits made in, any other insured depository institution, but there is not a legal merger or consolidation of the two insured depository institutions.


(f) *Resulting institution* refers to the acquiring, assuming, or resulting institution in a merger.


(g) *Successor* means a resulting institution or an insured depository institution that acquired part of another insured depository institution's 1996 assessment base ratio under paragraph 327.33(c) of this subpart under the *de facto* rule.




