# § 51-1.3   Definitions.

As used in this chapter:


*AbilityOne Program* means the program authorized by the JWOD Act to increase employment and training opportunities for persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities through Government purchasing of commodities and services from nonprofit agencies employing these persons.


*Agency* and *Federal agency* mean *Entity of the Government,* as defined herein.


*Blind* means an individual or class of individuals whose central visual acuity does not exceed 20/200 in the better eye with correcting lenses or whose visual acuity, if better than 20/200, is accompanied by a limit to the field of vision in the better eye to such a degree that its widest diameter subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.


*Central nonprofit agency* means an agency organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, operated in the interest of the blind or persons with other severe disabilities, the net income of which does not incur in whole or in part to the benefit of any shareholder or other individual, and designated by the Committee to facilitate the distribution (by direct allocation, subcontract, or any other means) of orders of the Government for commodities and services on the Procurement List among nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities, to provide information required by the Committee to implement the JWOD Program, and to otherwise assist the Committee in administering these regulations as set forth herein by the Committee.


*Committee* means the Committee for Purchase from People who are Blind or Severely Disabled.


*Contracting activity* means any element of an entity of the Government that has responsibility for identifying and/or procuring Government requirements for commodities or services. Components of a contracting activity, such as a contracting office and an ordering office, are incorporated in this definition, which includes all offices within the definitions of “contracting activity,” “contracting office,” and “contract administration office” contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR 2.101.


*Direct labor* means all work required for preparation, processing, and packing of a commodity or work directly related to the performance of a service, but not supervision, administration, inspection or shipping.


*Fiscal year* means the 12-month period beginning on October 1 of each year.


*Government* and *Entity of the Government* mean any entity of the legislative branch or the judicial branch, any executive agency, military department, Government corporation, or independent establishment, the U.S. Postal Service, and any nonappropriated fund instrumentality under the jurisdiction of the Armed Forces.


*Interested person* means an individual or legal entity affected by a proposed addition of a commodity or service to the Procurement List or a deletion from it.


*Military resale commodities* means commodities on the Procurement List sold for the private, individual use of authorized patrons of Armed Forces commissaries and exchanges, or like activities of other Government departments and agencies.


*Nonprofit agency* (formerly workshop) means a nonprofit agency for the blind or a nonprofit agency employing persons with severe disabilities, as appropriate.


*Other severely disabled* and *severely disabled individuals* (hereinafter persons with severe disabilities) mean a person other than a blind person who has a severe physical or mental impairment (a residual, limiting condition resulting from an injury, disease, or congenital defect) which so limits the person's functional capabilities (mobility, communication, self-care, self-direction, work tolerance or work skills) that the individual is unable to engage in normal competitive employment over an extended period of time.


(1) Capability for normal competitive employment shall be determined from information developed by an ongoing evaluation program conducted by or for the nonprofit agency and shall include as a minimum, a preadmission evaluation and a reevaluation at least annually of each individual's capability for normal competitive employment.


(2) A person with a severe mental or physical impairment who is able to engage in normal competitive employment because the impairment has been overcome or the condition has been substantially corrected is not “other severely handicapped” within the meaning of the definition.


*Participating nonprofit agency* (formerly participating workshop) means any nonprofit agency which has been authorized by the Committee to furnish a commodity or service to the Government under the JWOD Act.


*Procurement List* means a list of commodities (including military resale commodities) and services which the Committee has determined to be suitable to be furnished to the Government by nonprofit agencies for the blind or nonprofit agencies employing persons with severe disabilities pursuant to the JWOD Act and these regulations.


*Qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped* (hereinafter nonprofit agency employing persons with severe disabilities) (formerly workshop for other severely handicapped) means an agency organized under the laws of the United States or any State, operated in the interests of persons with severe disabilities who are not blind, and the net income of which does not inure in whole or in part to the benefit of any shareholder or other individual; which complies with applicable occupational health and safety standards prescribed by the Secretary of Labor; and which in furnishing commodities and services (whether or not the commodities or services are procured under these regulations) during the fiscal year employs persons with severe disabilities (including blind) for not less than 75 percent of the work-hours of direct labor required to furnish such commodities or services.


*Qualified nonprofit agency for the blind* (hereinafter nonprofit agency for the blind) (formerly workshop for the blind) means an agency organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, operated in the interest of blind individuals, and the net income of which does not inure in whole or in part to the benefit of any shareholder or other individual; which complies with applicable occupational health and safety standards prescribed by the Secretary of Labor; and which in furnishing commodities and services (whether or not the commodities or services are procured under these regulations) during the fiscal year employs blind individuals for not less than 75 percent of the work-hours of direct labor required to furnish such commodities or services.


*Severely disabled individual; Severe disability; Significantly disabled individual; Significant disability;* are interchangeable or synonymous terms used within the AbilityOne Program to describe persons with severe disabilities who qualify to participate in the AbilityOne Program.


*State* means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory remaining under the jurisdiction of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. 



---

[N] [56 FR 48976, Sept. 26, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 16777, Apr. 8, 1994; 71 FR 68493, Nov. 27, 2006; 77 FR 58500, Sept. 21, 2012]




