# § 122.75   Complete manifest.

(a) *Contents.* A complete air cargo manifest must list all cargo laden, and show for each item the air waybill number, or marks and numbers on packages and the type of goods carried. If an item does not require a Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing citations, exemptions, and/or exclusion legends, it must be noted on the air cargo manifest.


(1) *Shipments on an air waybill.* A copy of each air waybill on which shipments are listed may be attached to the air cargo manifest, and the number of the air waybill may be listed on the air cargo manifest. The statement “Cargo as per Air Waybill Attached” must appear on the air cargo manifest if this is done.


(2) *Direct departure.* With regard to direct departures of shipments requiring EEI, each EEI filing citation must be listed on the air cargo manifest in the column for air waybill numbers. The statement “Electronic Information Annotated” must appear on the manifest if this is done.


(b) *Statement required.* (1) When all required documents are ready for filing, the following statement must appear on the air cargo manifest, or on the general declaration form if an air cargo manifest is not required:


(2) If an incomplete set of documents has been filed and is later completed, the following statement must accompany the EEI filing citations, exclusions, and/or exemption legends and any required air cargo manifests:



---

[N] [T.D. 88-12, 53 FR 9292, Mar. 22, 1988, as amended by CBP Dec. 17-06, 82 FR 32239, July 13, 2017]




