# § 60.4   Address.

(a) All requests, reports, applications, submittals, and other communications to the Administrator pursuant to this part shall be submitted in duplicate to the appropriate Regional Office of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to the attention of the Director of the Division indicated in the following table.


(b) Section 111(c) directs the Administrator to delegate to each State, when appropriate, the authority to implement and enforce standards of performance for new stationary sources located in such State. All information required to be submitted to EPA under paragraph (a) of this section, must also be submitted to the appropriate State Agency of any State to which this authority has been delegated (provided, that each specific delegation may except sources from a certain Federal or State reporting requirement). The appropriate mailing address for those States whose delegation request has been approved is as follows: 


(1) [Reserved] 


(2) State of Alabama: Alabama Department of Environmental Management, P.O. Box 301463, Montgomery, Alabama 36130-1463. 


(3) State of Alaska, Department of Environmental Conservation, Pouch O, Juneau, AK 99811. 


(4) Arizona:


(5) State of Arkansas: Chief, Division of Air Pollution Control, Arkansas Department of Pollution Control and Ecology, 8001 National Drive, P.O. Box 9583, Little Rock, AR 72209.


(6) California:


(7) State of Colorado, Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80222-1530. 


(8) State of Connecticut, Compliance Analysis and Coordination Unit, Bureau of Air Management, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, 79 Elm Street, 5th Floor, Hartford, CT 06106-5127.


(9) State of Delaware, Department of Natural Resources & Environmental Control, 89 Kings Highway, P.O. Box 1401, Dover, Delaware 19903.


(10) District of Columbia, Department of Public Health, Air Quality Division, 51 N Street, NE., Washington, DC 20002.


(11) State of Florida: Florida Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Air Resources Management, 2600 Blair Stone Road, MS 5500, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-2400.


(12) State of Georgia: Georgia Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, Air Protection Branch, 4244 International Parkway, Suite 120, Atlanta, Georgia 30354. 


(13) Hawaii:


(14) State of Idaho, Department of Health and Welfare, Statehouse, Boise, ID 83701. 


(15) State of Illinois: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, 1021 North Grand Avenue East, Springfield, Illinois 62794.


(16) State of Indiana: Indiana Department of Environmental Management, Office of Air Quality, 100 North Senate Avenue, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204.


(17) State of Iowa: Iowa Department of Natural Resources, Environmental Protection Division, Air Quality Bureau, 7900 Hickman Road, Suite 1, Urbandale, IA 50322. 


(18) State of Kansas: Kansas Department of Health and Environment, Bureau of Air and Radiation, 1000 S.W. Jackson, Suite 310, Topeka, KS 66612-1366. 


(19) Commonwealth of Kentucky: Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection, Division for Air Quality, 300 Sower Boulevard, 2nd Floor, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601 or local agency, Louisville Metro Air Pollution Control District, 701 W. Ormsby Ave., Suite 303, Louisville, Kentucky 40203.


(20) State of Louisiana: Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 4301, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70821-4301.


(21) State of Maine, Maine Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Air Quality, 17 State House Station, Augusta, ME 04333-0017.


(22) State of Maryland, Department of the Environment, 1800 Washington Boulevard, Suite 705, Baltimore, Maryland 21230.


(23) Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Air and Climate Programs, One Winter Street, Boston, MA 02108.


(24) State of Michigan: Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment, Air Quality Division, P.O. Box 30028, Lansing, Michigan 48909.


(25) State of Minnesota: Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, Division of Air Quality, 520 Lafayette Road North, St. Paul, Minnesota 55155. 


(26) State of Mississippi: Hand Deliver or Courier: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, Office of Pollution Control, Air Division, 515 East Amite Street, Jackson, Mississippi 39201, Mailing Address: Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, Office of Pollution Control, Air Division, P.O. Box 2261, Jackson, Mississippi 39225.


(27) State of Missouri: Missouri Department of Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 176, Jefferson City, MO 65102.


(28) State of Montana, Department of Environmental Quality, 1520 E. 6th Ave., PO Box 200901, Helena, MT 59620-0901.


(29) State of Nebraska, Nebraska Department of Environmental Control, P.O. Box 94877, State House Station, Lincoln, NE 68509. 


(30) Nevada:


(31) State of New Hampshire, New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, Air Resources Division, 29 Hazen Drive, P.O. Box 95, Concord, NH 03302-0095.


(32) State of New Jersey: New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Environmental Quality, Enforcement Element, John Fitch Plaza, CN-027, Trenton, NJ 08625.


(1) The following table lists the specific source and pollutant categories that have been delegated to the states in Region II. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each category that has been delegated.


(33) State of New Mexico: New Mexico Environment Department, P.O. Box 5469, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87502-5469. Note: For a list of delegated standards for New Mexico (excluding Bernalillo County and Indian country), see paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(34) New York: New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, 50 Wolf Road Albany, New York 12233, attention: Division of Air Resources. 


(35) State of North Carolina: North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Air Quality, 1641 Mail Service Center, Raleigh, North Carolina 27699-1641 or local agencies, Forsyth County Office of Environmental Assistance and Protection, 201 North Chestnut Street, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27101-4120; Mecklenburg County Land Use and Environmental Services Agency, Air Quality, 2145 Suttle Avenue, Charlotte, North Carolina 28208; Western North Carolina Regional Air Quality Agency, 125 S. Lexington Ave., Suite 101, Asheville, North Carolina 28801-3661.


(36) State of North Dakota, North Dakota Department of Environmental Quality, 918 East Divide Avenue, Bismarck, ND 58501-1947.


(37) State of Ohio:


(i) Medina, Summit and Portage Counties; Director, Akron Regional Air Quality Management District, 146 South High Street, Room 904, Akron, OH 44308.


(ii) Stark County; Director, Canton City Health Department, Air Pollution Control Division, 420 Market Avenue North, Canton, Ohio 44702-1544.


(iii) Butler, Clermont, Hamilton, and Warren Counties; Director, Hamilton County Department of Environmental Services, 250 William Howard Taft Road, Cincinnati, Ohio 45219-2660.


(iv) Cuyahoga County; Commissioner, Cleveland Department of Public Health, Division of Air Quality, 75 Erieview Plaza 2nd Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44114.


(v) Clark, Darke, Greene, Miami, Montgomery, and Preble Counties; Director, Regional Air Pollution Control Agency, 117 South Main Street, Dayton, Ohio 45422-1280.


(vi) Lucas County and the City of Rossford (in Wood County); Director, City of Toledo, Division of Environmental Services, 348 South Erie Street, Toledo, OH 43604.


(vii) Adams, Brown, Lawrence, and Scioto Counties; Portsmouth Local Air Agency, 605 Washington Street, Third Floor, Portsmouth, OH 45662.


(viii) Allen, Ashland, Auglaize, Crawford, Defiance, Erie, Fulton, Hancock, Hardin, Henry, Huron, Marion, Mercer, Ottawa, Paulding, Putnam, Richland, Sandusky, Seneca, Van Wert Williams, Wood (Except City of Rossford), and Wyandot Counties; Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Northwest District Office, Air Pollution Control, 347 North Dunbridge Road, Bowling Green, Ohio 43402.


(ix) Ashtabula, Caroll, Colombiana, Holmes, Lorain, and Wayne Counties; Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Northeast District Office, Air Pollution Unit, 2110 East Aurora Road, Twinsburg, OH 44087.


(x) Athens, Belmont, Coshocton, Gallia, Guemsey, Harrison, Hocking, Jackson, Jefferson, Meigs, Monroe, Morgan, Muskingum, Noble, Perry, Pike, Ross, Tuscarawas, Vinton, and Washington Counties; Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Southeast District Office, Air Pollution Unit, 2195 Front Street, Logan, OH 43138.


(xi) Champaign, Clinton, Highland, Logan, and Shelby Counties; Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Southwest District Office, Air Pollution Unit, 401 East Fifth Street, Dayton, Ohio 45402-2911.


(xii) Delaware, Fairfield, Fayette, Franklin, Knox, Licking, Madison, Morrow, Pickaway, and Union Counties; Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Central District Office, Air Pollution control, 50 West Town Street, Suite 700, Columbus, Ohio 43215.


(xiii) Geauga and Lake Counties; Lake County General Health District, Air Pollution Control, 33 Mill Street, Painesville, OH 44077.


(xiv) Mahoning and Trumbull Counties; Mahoning-Trumbull Air Pollution Control Agency, 345 Oak Hill Avenue, Suite 200, Youngstown, OH 44502. 


(38) State of Oklahoma, Oklahoma State Department of Health, Air Quality Service, P.O. Box 53551, Oklahoma City, OK 73152.


(i) Oklahoma City and County: Director, Oklahoma City-County Health Department, 921 Northeast 23rd Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73105.


(ii) Tulsa County: Tulsa City-County Health Department, 4616 East Fifteenth Street, Tulsa, OK 74112.


(39) State of Oregon. (i) Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (ODEQ), 811 SW Sixth Avenue, Portland, OR 97204-1390, *http://www.deq.state.or.us.*

(ii) Lane Regional Air Pollution Authority (LRAPA), 1010 Main Street, Springfield, Oregon 97477, *http://www.lrapa.org.*

(40)(i) City of Philadelphia, Department of Public Health, Air Management Services, 321 University Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.


(ii) Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Environmental Protection, Bureau of Air Quality Control, P.O. Box 8468, 400 Market Street, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105.


(iii) Allegheny County Health Department, Bureau of Environmental Quality, Division of Air Quality, 301 39th Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15201.


(41) State of Rhode Island, Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management, Office of Air Resources, 235 Promenade Street, Providence, RI 02908.


(42) State of South Carolina: South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, 2600 Bull Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29201. 


(43) State of South Dakota, Air Quality Program, Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Joe Foss Building, 523 East Capitol, Pierre, SD 57501-3181.


(44) State of Tennessee: Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Air Pollution Control, William R. Snodgrass Tennessee Tower, 312 Rosa L. Parks Avenue, 15th Floor, Nashville, Tennessee 37243, or local agencies, Knox County Air Quality Management—Department of Public Health, 140 Dameron Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee 37917; Metro Public Health Department, Pollution Control Division, 2500 Charlotte Ave., Nashville, Tennessee 37209; Chattanooga-Hamilton County Air Pollution Control Bureau, 6125 Preservation Drive, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37416; Shelby County Health Department, Pollution Control Section, 814 Jefferson Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38105.


(45) State of Texas, Texas Air Control Board, 6330 Highway 290 East, Austin, TX 78723. 


(46) State of Utah, Division of Air Quality, Department of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 144820, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4820.


(47) State of Vermont, Agency of Natural Resources, Department of Environmental Conservation, Air Quality and Climate Division, Davis 2, One National Life Drive, Montpelier, VT 05620-3802.


(48) Commonwealth of Virginia, Department of Environmental Quality, 629 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219.


(49) *State of Washington.* (i) Washington State Department of Ecology (Ecology), P.O. Box 47600, Olympia, WA 98504-7600, *http://www.ecy.wa.gov/*

(ii) Benton Clean Air Authority (BCAA), 650 George Washington Way, Richland, WA 99352-4289, *http://www.bcaa.net/*

(iii) Northwest Air Pollution Control Authority (NWAPA), 1600 South Second St., Mount Vernon, WA 98273-5202, *http://www.nwair.org/*

(iv) Olympic Regional Clean Air Agency (ORCAA), 909 Sleater-Kinney Road S.E., Suite 1, Lacey, WA 98503-1128, *http://www.orcaa.org/*

(v) Puget Sound Clean Air Agency (PSCAA), 110 Union Street, Suite 500, Seattle, WA 98101-2038, *http://www.pscleanair.org/*

(vi) Spokane County Air Pollution Control Authority (SCAPCA), West 1101 College, Suite 403, Spokane, WA 99201, *http://www.scapca.org/*

(vii) Southwest Clean Air Agency (SWCAA), 1308 NE. 134th St., Vancouver, WA 98685-2747, *http://www.swcleanair.org/*

(viii) Yakima Regional Clean Air Authority (YRCAA), 6 South 2nd Street, Suite 1016, Yakima, WA 98901, *http://co.yakima.wa.us/cleanair/default.htm*

(ix) The following table lists the delegation status of the New Source Performance Standards for the State of Washington. An “X” indicates the subpart has been delegated, subject to all the conditions and limitations set forth in Federal law and the letters granting delegation. Some authorities cannot be delegated and are retained by EPA. Refer to the letters granting delegation for a discussion of these retained authorities. The dates noted at the end of the table indicate the effective dates of Federal rules that have been delegated. Authority for implementing and enforcing any amendments made to these rules after these effective dates are not delegated. 


(50) State of West Virginia, Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Air Quality, 601 57th Street, SE., Charleston, West Virginia 25304.


(51) State of Wisconsin: Wisconsin Department of Natural Resouces, 101 South Webster St., P.O. Box 7921, Madison, Wisconsin 53707-7921. 


(52) State of Wyoming, Department of Environmental Quality, Air Quality Division, Herschler Building, 122 West 25th Street, Cheyenne, WY 82002.


(53) Territory of Guam: Guam Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. Box 22439 GMF, Barrigada, Guam 96921.


(54) Commonwealth of Puerto Rico: Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Environmental Quality Board, P.O. Box 11488, Santurce, PR 00910, Attention: Air Quality Area Director (see table under § 60.4(b)(FF)(1)).


(55) U.S. Virgin Islands: U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Conservation and Cultural Affairs, P.O. Box 578, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, VI 00801.


(56) American Samoa: American Samoa Environmental Protection Agency, P.O. Box PPA, Pago Pago, American Samoa 96799.


(57) Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands: CNMI Division of Environmental Quality, P.O. Box 501304, Saipan, MP 96950.


(c) The delegation status table for New Source Performance Standards for Region VIII can be found online at *http://www2.epa.gov/region8/air-program.*

(d) The following tables list the specific part 60 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the air pollution control agencies in Region IX. The (X) symbol is used to indicate each standard that has been delegated. The following provisions of this subpart are not delegated: §§ 60.4(b), 60.8(b), 60.9, 60.11(b), 60.11(e), 60.13(a), 60.13(d)(2), 60.13(g), 60.13(i).


(1) *Arizona.* The following table identifies delegations for Arizona:


(2) *California.* The following tables identify delegations for each of the local air pollution control agencies of California.


(i) Delegations for Amador County Air Pollution Control District, Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District, Bay Area Air Quality Management District, and Butte County Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(ii) [Reserved] 


(iii) Delegations for Glenn County Air Pollution Control District, Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District, Imperial County Air Pollution Control District, and Kern County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table: 


(iv) Delegations for Lake County Air Quality Management District, Lassen County Air Pollution Control District, Mariposa County Air Pollution Control District, and Mendocino County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table: 


(v) Delegations for Modoc Air Pollution Control District, Mojave Desert Air Quality Management District, Monterey Bay Unified Air Pollution Control District and North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(vi) Delegations for Northern Sierra Air Quality Management District, Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District, Placer County Air Pollution Control District, and Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table: 


(vii) Delegations for San Diego County Air Pollution Control District, San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District, San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District, and Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table:


(viii) Delegations for Shasta County Air Quality Management District, Siskiyou County Air Pollution Control District, South Coast Air Quality Management District, and Tehama County Air Pollution Control District are shown in the following table: 


(ix) Delegations for Tuolumne County Air Pollution Control District, Ventura County Air Pollution Control District, and Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District are shown in the following table:


(3) *Hawaii.* The following table identifies delegations for Hawaii:


Delegation Status for New Source Performance Standards for Hawaii:



(4) *Nevada.* The following table identifies delegations for Nevada: 



(5) *Guam.* The following table identifies delegations as of June 15, 2001:



(e) The following lists the specific part 60 standards that have been delegated unchanged to the air pollution control agencies in Region 6. 


(1) *New Mexico.* The New Mexico Environment Department has been delegated all part 60 standards promulgated by the EPA, except subpart AAA—Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters; and subpart QQQQ—Standards of Performance for New Residential Hydronic Heaters and Forced-Air Furnaces, as amended in the _Federal Register_ through January 15, 2017.


(2) *Louisiana.* The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality has been delegated all part 60 standards promulgated by EPA, except subpart AAA—Standards of Performance for New Residential Wood Heaters, as amended in the _Federal Register_ through July 1, 2013.


(3) *Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board.* The Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board has been delegated all part 60 standards promulgated by the EPA, except subpart AAA of this part and subpart QQQQ of this part as amended through January 23, 2017.



---

[N] [40 FR 18169, Apr. 25, 1975] 


