# § 63.693   Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to closed-vent systems and control devices used to control air emissions for which another standard references the use of this section for such air emission control.


(b) For each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with this section, the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements:


(1) The owner or operator must use a closed-vent system that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator must use a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section as applicable to the type and design of the control device selected by the owner or operator to comply with the provisions of this section.


(3) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are routed from a tank through a closed-vent system connected to a control device used to comply with the requirements of § 63.685(b)(1), (2), or (3), the control device must be operating except as provided for in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The control device may only be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the closed-vent system or control device in situations when the routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that tank emissions are vented to the control device.


(ii) On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance shall not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.


(4) The owner or operator must inspect and monitor each closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements specified in either paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator inspects and monitors the closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.695(c) of this subpart, and complies with the applicable recordkeeping requirements in § 63.696 of this subpart and the applicable reporting requirements in § 63.697 of this subpart.


(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator may choose to inspect and monitor the closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements under 40 CFR part 63, subpart H—National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks as specified in 40 CFR 63.172(f) through (h), and complies with the applicable recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR 63.181 and the applicable reporting requirements in 40 CFR 63.182.


(5) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section as applicable to the type and design of the control device selected by the owner or operator to comply with the provisions of this section.


(6) The owner or operator shall maintain records for each control device in accordance with the requirements of § 63.696 of this subpart.


(7) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit reports for each control device in accordance with the requirements of § 63.697 of this subpart.


(8) In the case when an owner or operator chooses to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance of a control device with the applicable performance requirements specified in this section as provided for in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, the Administrator may require that the design analysis be revised or amended by the owner or operator to correct any deficiencies identified by the Administrator. If the owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on the acceptability of using the design analysis (including any changes required by the Administrator) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements, then the disagreement must be resolved using the results of a performance test conducted by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l). The Administrator may choose to have an authorized representative observe the performance test conducted by the owner or operator. Should the results of this performance test not agree with the determination of control device performance based on the design analysis, then the results of the performance test will be used to establish compliance with this subpart.


(c) Closed-vent system requirements.


(1) The vent stream required to be controlled shall be conveyed to the control device by either of the following closed-vent systems:


(i) A closed-vent system that is designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions using the procedure specified in § 63.694(k) of this subpart; or 


(ii) A closed-vent system that is designed to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gauge or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the control device is operating.


(2) In situations when the closed-vent system includes bypass devices that could be used to divert a vent stream from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere at a point upstream of the control device inlet, each bypass device must be equipped with either a flow indicator as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section or a seal or locking device as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section:


(i) If a flow indicator is used, the indicator must be installed at the entrance to the bypass line used to divert the vent stream from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere. The flow indicator must indicate a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator must maintain records of the following information: hourly records of whether the flow indicator was operating and whether flow was detected at any time during the hour; and records of all periods when flow is detected or the flow indicator is not operating.


(ii) If a seal or locking device is used to comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the device shall be placed on the mechanism by which the bypass device position is controlled (*e.g.,* valve handle, damper lever) when the bypass device is in the closed position such that the bypass device cannot be opened without breaking the seal or removing the lock. Examples of such devices include, but are not limited to, a car-seal or a lock-and-key configuration valve.


(iii) Equipment needed for safety reasons, including low leg drains, open-ended valves and lines not in emergency shutdown systems, and pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.691(c) are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(d) Carbon adsorption control device requirements.


(1) The carbon adsorption system must achieve the performance specifications in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total organic compounds (TOC), less methane and ethane, contained in the vent stream entering the carbon adsorption system; or


(ii) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart contained in the vent stream entering the carbon adsorption system.


(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the carbon adsorption system achieves the performance requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section by either performing a performance test as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) An owner or operator choosing to use a performance test to demonstrate compliance must conduct the test in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l) of this subpart.


(ii) An owner or operator choosing to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance must include as part of this design analysis the information specified in either paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section as applicable to the carbon adsorption system design.


(A) For a regenerable carbon adsorption system, the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration, adsorption cycle time, number and capacity of carbon beds, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon beds, design total regeneration steam flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of the carbon.


(B) For a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system (e.g., a carbon canister), the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration, carbon bed capacity, activated carbon type and working capacity, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and emission point operating schedule.


(3) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of the carbon adsorption system in accordance with the requirements of § 63.695(e) using one of the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. Monitoring the operation of a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system (*e.g.,* a carbon canister) using a continuous monitoring system is not required when the carbon canister or the carbon in the control device is replaced on a regular basis according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.


(i) For a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system:


(A) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the average total regeneration stream mass flow or volumetric flow during each carbon bed regeneration cycle. The integrating regenerating stream flow monitoring device must have an accuracy of ±10 percent; and


(B) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the average carbon bed temperature for the duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle and to measure the actual carbon bed temperature after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing the cooling cycle. The accuracy of the temperature monitoring device must be ±1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius or ±5 °C, whichever is greater.


(ii) A continuous monitoring system to measure and record the daily average concentration level of organic compounds in the exhaust gas stream from the control device. The organic monitoring system must comply either with Performance Specification 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, Sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.


(iii) A continuous monitoring system that measures other alternative operating parameters upon approval of the Administrator as specified in 40 CFR 63.8(f)(1) through (f)(5) of this part.


(4) The owner or operator shall manage the carbon used for the carbon adsorption system, as follows:


(i) Following the initial startup of the control device, all carbon in the control device shall be replaced with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established for the carbon adsorption system. The provisions of this paragraph (d)(4)(i) do not apply to a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system (*e.g.,* a carbon canister) for which the carbon canister or the carbon in the control device is replaced on a regular basis according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.


(ii) The spent carbon removed from the carbon adsorption system must be either regenerated, reactivated, or burned in one of the units specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (d)(4)(ii)(G) of this section.


(A) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X.


(B) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating air emission controls in accordance with this section.


(C) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with a national emission standard for hazardous air pollutants under another subpart in 40 CFR part 63 or 40 CFR part 61.


(D) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O.


(E) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has designed and operates the incinerator in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.


(F) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(G) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has designed and operates the unit in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(iii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4)(i) of this section, an owner or operator of a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system may choose to replace on a regular basis the carbon canister or the carbon in the control device using the procedures in either paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A) or (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph (d)(4)(iii), a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system means a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device, such as a carbon canister. The spent carbon removed from the nonregenerable carbon adsorption system must be managed according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.


(A) Monitor the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent from the carbon adsorption system on a regular schedule, and when carbon breakthrough is indicated, immediately replace either the existing carbon canister with a new carbon canister or replace the existing carbon in the control device with fresh carbon. Measurement of the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream must be made with a detection instrument that is appropriate for the composition of organic constituents in the vent stream and is routinely calibrated to measure the organic concentration level expected to occur at breakthrough. The monitoring frequency must be daily or at an interval no greater than 20 percent of the time required to consume the total carbon working capacity established as a requirement of paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, whichever is longer.


(B) Replace either the existing carbon canister with a new carbon canister or replace the existing carbon in the control device with fresh carbon at a regular, predetermined time interval that is less than the design carbon replacement interval established as a requirement of paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(e) Condenser control device requirements.


(1) The condenser must achieve the performance specifications in either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total organic compounds (TOC), less methane and ethane, contained in the vent stream entering the condenser; or


(ii) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total HAP, listed in Table 1 of this subpart, contained in the vent stream entering the condenser.


(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the condenser achieves the performance requirements in paragraph (e)(1) of this section by either performing a performance test as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) An owner or operator choosing to use a performance tests to demonstrate compliance must conduct the test in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l) of this subpart.


(ii) An owner or operator choosing to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance must include as part of this design analysis the following information: description of the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature; and specification of the design outlet organic compound concentration level, design average temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream, and the design average temperatures of the coolant fluid at the condenser inlet and outlet.


(3) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of the condenser in accordance with the requirements of § 63.695(e) of this subpart using one of the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section.


(i) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the daily average temperature of the exhaust gases from the control device. The accuracy of the temperature monitoring device shall be ±1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius or ±5 °C, whichever is greater. 


(ii) A continuous monitoring system to measure and record the daily average concentration level of organic compounds in the exhaust gas stream from the control device. The organic monitoring system must comply either with Performance Specification 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, Sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.


(iii) A continuous monitoring system that measures other alternative operating parameters upon approval of the Administrator as specified in 40 CFR 63.8(f)(1) through (f)(5) of this part.


(f) Vapor incinerator control device requirements.


(1) The vapor incinerator must achieve the performance specifications in either paragraph (f)(1)(i), (f)(1)(ii), or (f)(1)(iii) of this section.


(i) Destroy the total organic compounds (TOC), less methane and ethane, contained in the vent stream entering the vapor incinerator either:


(A) By 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, or


(B) To achieve a total incinerator outlet concentration for the TOC, less methane and ethane, of less than or equal to 20 ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(ii) Destroy the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart contained in the vent stream entering the vapor incinerator either:


(A) By 95 percent or more, on a total HAP weight-basis, or


(B) To achieve a total incinerator outlet concentration for the HAP, listed in Table 1 of this subpart, of less than or equal to 20 ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(iii) Maintain the conditions in the vapor incinerator combustion chamber at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or longer and at a temperature of 760°C or higher.


(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the vapor incinerator achieves the performance requirements in paragraph (f)(1) of this section by conducting either a performance test as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section.


(i) An owner or operator choosing to use a performance test to demonstrate compliance must conduct the test in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l) of this subpart.


(ii) An owner or operator choosing to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance must include as part of this design analysis the information specified in either paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) or (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section as applicable to the vapor incinerator design.


(A) For a thermal vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate and shall establish the design minimum and average temperatures in the combustion chamber and the combustion chamber residence time.


(B) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate and shall establish the design minimum and average temperatures across the catalyst bed inlet and outlet, and the design service life of the catalyst.


(iii) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test or design analysis if the incinerator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.


(3) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of the vapor incinerator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.695(e) of this subpart using one of the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iv) of this section as applicable to the type of vapor incinerator used.


(i) For a thermal vapor incinerator, a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the daily average temperature of the exhaust gases from the control device. The accuracy of the temperature monitoring device must be ±1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius of ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater.


(ii) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device capable of monitoring temperature at two locations equipped with a continuous recorder. One temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet and a second temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet.


(iii) For either type of vapor incinerator, a continuous monitoring system to measure and record the daily average concentration of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the control device. The organic monitoring system must comply either with Performance Specification 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, Sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.


(iv) For either type of vapor incinerator, a continuous monitoring system that measures alternative operating parameters other than those specified in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (f)(3)(ii) of this section upon approval of the Administrator as specified in 40 CFR 63.8(f)(1) through (f)(5) of this part.


(g) Boilers and process heaters control device requirements.


(1) The boiler or process heater must achieve the performance specifications in either paragraph (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), or (g)(1)(v) of this section.


(i) Destroy the total organic compounds (TOC), less methane and ethane, contained in the vent stream introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater either:


(A) By 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, or 


(B) To achieve in the exhausted combustion gases a total concentration for the TOC, less methane and ethane, of less than or equal to 20 parts ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(ii) Destroy the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart contained in the vent stream entering the vapor incinerator either:


(A) By 95 percent or more, on a total HAP weight-basis, or 


(B) To achieve in the exhausted combustion gases a total concentration for the HAP, listed in Table 1 of the subpart, of less than or equal to 20 ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.


(iii) Introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater and maintain the conditions in the combustion chamber at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or longer and at a temperature of 760°C or higher.


(iv) Introduce the vent stream with the fuel that provides the predominate heat input to the boiler or process heater (i.e., the primary fuel); or


(v) Introduce the vent stream to a boiler or process heater for which the owner or operator either has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or has submitted a Notification of Compliance under §§ 63.1207(j) and 63.1210(d) and complies with the requirements of subpart EEE of this part at all times (including times when non-hazardous waste is being burned).


(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the boiler or process heater achieves the performance specifications in paragraph (g)(1) of this section chosen by the owner or operator using the applicable method specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) or (g)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) If an owner or operator chooses to comply with the performance specifications in either paragraph (g)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with the applicable performance specifications by conducting either a performance test as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(C) of this section.


(A) An owner or operator choosing to use a performance test to demonstrate compliance must conduct the test in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l) of this subpart.


(B) An owner or operator choosing to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance must include as part of this design analysis the following information: description of the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, and flow rate; specification of the design minimum and average flame zone temperatures and combustion zone residence time; and description of the method and location by which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone.


(C) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test or design analysis if the boiler or process heater has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(ii) If an owner or operator chooses to comply with the performance specifications in either paragraph (g)(1)(iv) or (g)(1)(v) of this section, the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance by maintaining the records that document that the boiler or process heater is designed and operated in accordance with the applicable requirements of this section.


(3) For a boiler or process heater complying with the performance specifications in either paragraph (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), or (g)(1)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must monitor the operation of a boiler or process heater in accordance with the requirements of § 63.695(e) of this subpart using one of the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (g)(3)(iii) of this section.


(i) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the daily average combustion zone temperature. The accuracy of the temperature sensor must be ±1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater;


(ii) A continuous monitoring system to measure and record the daily average concentration of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the control device. The organic monitoring system must comply either with Performance Specification 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, Sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.


(iii) A continuous monitoring system that measures alternative operating parameters other than those specified in paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (g)(3)(ii) of this section upon approval of the Administrator as specified in 40 CFR 63.8(f)(1) through (f)(5) of this part.


(h) Flare control device requirements.


(1) The flare must be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements in 40 CFR 63.11(b).


(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the flare achieves the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section by performing the procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section. A previous compliance demonstration for the flare that meets all of the conditions specified in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section may be used by an owner or operator to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph (h)(2).


(i) To demonstrate that a flare achieves the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the owner or operator performs all of the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) through (h)(2)(i)(C) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator conducts a visible emission test for the flare in accordance with the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.11(b)(4).


(B) The owner or operator determines the net heating value of the gas being combusted in the flare in accordance with the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.11(b)(6); and 


(C) The owner or operator determines the flare exit velocity in accordance with the requirements applicable to the flare design as specified in 40 CFR 63.11(b)(7) or 40 CFR 63.11(b)(8).


(ii) A previous compliance demonstration for the flare may be used by an owner or operator to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section provided that all conditions for the compliance determination and subsequent flare operation are met as specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii)(A) and (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator conducted the compliance determination using the procedures specified in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.


(B) No flare operating parameter or process changes have occurred since completion of the compliance determination which could affect the compliance determination results.


(3) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of the flare using a heat sensing monitoring device (including but not limited to a thermocouple, ultraviolet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) that continuously detects the presence of a pilot flame. The owner or operator must record, for each 1-hour period, whether the monitor was continuously operating and whether a pilot flame was continuously present during each hour as required in § 63.696(b)(3) of this subpart.



---

[N] [64 FR 38970, July 20, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 1266, Jan. 8, 2001; 68 FR 37351, June 23, 2003; 80 FR 14276, Mar. 18, 2015]




