# § 1251.302   New construction.

(a) *Design and construction.* Each facility or part of a facility constructed by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient shall be designed and constructed in such manner that the facility or part of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.


(b) *Alteration.* Each facility or part of a facility which is altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of a recipient after the effective date of this part in a manner that affects or could affect the usability of the facility or part of the facility shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be altered in such manner that the altered portion of the facility is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.


(c) *Accessibility standards and compliance dates*—(1) *Applicable accessibility standards.* (i) New construction and alterations undertaken prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must comply with either UFAS or the 2010 Standards.


(ii) New construction and alterations on or after the compliance dates specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must comply with the 2010 Standards.


(iii) New construction and alterations of buildings or facilities undertaken in compliance with the 2010 Standards shall comply with the requirements for a “public building or facility” as defined in the 2010 Standards regardless of whether the recipient is a public or private entity.


(iv) Departures from particular requirements of either standard by the use of other methods shall be permitted when it is clearly evident that equivalent access to the facility or part of the facility is thereby provided.


(2) *Compliance dates*—(i) *New Construction and alterations by recipients that are private entities.* (A) New construction and alterations in which the last application for a building permit or permit extension for such construction or alterations is certified to be complete by a state, county, or local government (or, in those jurisdictions where the government does not certify completion of applications, if the date when the last application for a building permit or permit extension is received by the state, county, or local government) is prior to January 23, 2017, or if no permit is required, if the start of physical construction or alterations occurs prior to January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations must comply with either the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards or the 2010 Standards.


(B) New construction and alterations in which the last application for a building permit or permit extension for such construction or alterations is certified to be complete by a state, county, or local government (or, in those jurisdictions where the government does not certify completion of applications, if the date when the last application for a building permit or permit extension is received by the state, county, or local government) is on or after January 23, 2017, or if no permit is required, if the start of physical construction or alterations occurs on or after January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations shall comply with the 2010 Standards.


(ii) New construction and alterations by recipients that are public entities. (A) If physical construction or alterations commence prior to January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations must comply with either UFAS or the 2010 Standards.


(C) If physical construction or alterations commence on or after January 23, 2017, then such new construction and alterations shall comply with the 2010 Standards.


(3) For the purposes of this section, ceremonial groundbreaking or razing of structures prior to site preparation will not be considered to commence or start physical construction or alterations.


(4)[Reserved]


(5) For purposes of this section, section 4.1.6(1)(g) of UFAS shall be interpreted to exempt from the requirements of UFAS only mechanical rooms and other spaces that, because of their intended use, will not require accessibility to the public or beneficiaries or result in the employment or residence therein of persons with physical disabilities.


(6) This section does not require recipients to make building alterations that have little likelihood of being accomplished without removing or altering a load-bearing structural member.



---

[N] [51 FR 26862, July 28, 1986, as amended at 55 FR 52138, 52140, Dec. 19, 1990; 81 FR 3712, Jan. 22, 2016]




