# ยง 600.748   National Minimum Observer Provider Insurance Standard.

(a) *Applicability.* As part of regulations for observer provider companies to obtain approval or a permit to deploy a person in any mandatory or voluntary observer program, or regulations that specify approved or permitted observer provider responsibilities, NMFS must reference and ensure compliance with the following national minimum insurance standard.


(b) *Policies and Coverage Amounts.* (1) Marine General Liability ($1 million any one occurrence or as provided under paragraph (d) of this section).


(2) Marine Employers Liability ($1 million any one occurrence or as provided under paragraph (d) of this section) for an observer provider that is authorized, or has applied to be authorized, to deploy observers or monitors at-sea.


(3) State workers' compensation as required by each state in which the observer provider is authorized, or has applied to be authorized, to deploy observers or monitors at-sea or shoreside.


(4) U.S. Longshore and Harbor Workers' Act coverage, either as a stand-alone policy or as a state workers' compensation policy endorsement, if that policy or a policy endorsement is required by the respective state(s) in which the observer provider is authorized, or has applied to be authorized, to deploy observers or monitors at-sea or shoreside.


(5) Excess or umbrella coverage ($2 million any one occurrence).


(c) *Scope of coverages.* Coverage must extend to injury, liability, and accidental death during the period of employment, including training, of observers or monitors at-sea or shoreside.


(d) *Combined coverage amounts.* Coverage amounts specified for Marine General Liability and Marine Employers Liability may be higher or lower for each respective policy so long as the combined coverage for these policies is $2 million.



---

[N] [87 FR 54909, Sept. 8, 2022]




