# § 127.21   Data to be reported electronically to EPA by states, tribes, and territories.

(a) States, tribes, and territories that have received authorization from EPA to implement the NPDES program must electronically transfer to EPA all information listed in appendix A to this part. This information includes:


(1) The “Core NPDES Permitting, Compliance, And Enforcement Data [40 CFR parts 122, 123, 403, 503]” as identified as NPDES Data Group 1 in Tables 1 and 2 in appendix A to this part.


(2) NPDES information (NPDES Data Groups 2 through 10 in Tables 1 and 2 in appendix A to this part) from NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] where the authorized state, tribe, or territory is the initial recipient [as identified in § 127.27, and as defined in § 127.2(b)]. This includes NPDES information from NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part that received a waiver from electronic reporting (see § 127.15).


(3) Specific data elements that are required to be submitted electronically to EPA by the states, tribes, or territories that have received authorization from EPA to implement the NPDES program are identified in appendix A to this part.


(b) States, tribes, and territories that have received authorization from EPA to implement the NPDES program must electronically transfer these data, listed in § 127.21(a), to EPA within 40 days of the completed activity or within 40 days of the receipt of a report from a NPDES permittee, facility, or entity subject to this part (*see* § 127.1(a)). EPA may set an alternative compliance deadline for data sharing for one or more facilities, general permit reports, program reports, and related data elements (*see* 40 CFR 127.24) provided this alternative compliance date does not extend beyond December 21, 2028.





---

[N] [80 FR 64102, Oct. 22, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 69199, Nov. 2, 2020]








