# § 24.104   Review of appraisals.

The agency shall have an appraisal review process and, at a minimum:


(a) A qualified review appraiser (*see* § 24.103(d)(1) and appendix A to this part, section 24.104) shall examine the presentation and analysis of market information in all appraisals to ensure that they meet the definition of appraisal found in § 24.2(a), appraisal requirements found in § 24.103, and other applicable requirements (including, to the extent appropriate, the UASFLA), and support the appraiser's opinion of value. The level of review analysis depends on the complexity of the appraisal problem (*see* § 24.103(a)(1) and appendix A, section 24.104(a)). As needed, the review appraiser shall, prior to acceptance of an appraisal report, seek necessary corrections or revisions. The review appraiser shall identify each appraisal report as recommended (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation), accepted (meets all requirements, but not selected as recommended or approved), or not accepted. If authorized by the agency to do so, the staff review appraiser shall also approve the appraisal (as the basis for the establishment of the amount believed to be just compensation), and, if also authorized to do so, develop and report the amount believed to be just compensation. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.104(a).)


(b) If the review appraiser is unable to recommend (or approve) an appraisal as an adequate basis for the establishment of the offer of just compensation, and it is determined by the agency that it is not practical to obtain an additional appraisal, the review appraiser may, as part of the review, present and analyze market information in conformance with § 24.103 to support a recommended (or approved) value. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.104(b).)


(c) The review appraiser shall prepare a written report that identifies the appraisal reports reviewed and documents the findings and conclusions arrived at during the review of the appraisal(s). Any damages or benefits to any remaining property shall be identified in the review appraiser's report. The review appraiser shall also prepare a signed certification that states the parameters of the review. The certification shall state the approved value and, if the review appraiser is authorized to do so, the amount believed to be just compensation for the acquisition. (*See* appendix A to this part, section 24.104(c).)






