# ยง 1150.6   What opportunity do I have to obtain a review of my debt within the Endowment?

(a) *Request for review.* If you desire a review within the Endowment concerning the existence or amount of your debt, the proposed schedule for offset of Federal employee salary payments, or whether the debt is past due or legally enforceable, you must send such a request to the officer or employee of the Endowment designated in the Notice (see ยง 1150.5(c)(4)). 


(1) Your request for review must carry your signature and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts and evidence that support your position. Your request for review should be accompanied by available evidence to support your contentions. 


(2) Your request for review must be received by the designated officer or employee of the Endowment on or before the 60th day following the date of the Notice. Timely filing will stay the commencement of collection procedures. If you file a request for a review after the 60-day period provided for in this section, the Endowment will accept the request if you can show that the delay was the result of circumstances beyond your control or because you did not receive notice of the filing deadline (unless you had actual notice of the filing deadline). 


(b) *Inspection of Endowment records related to the debt.* (1) In accordance with ยง 1150.5, if you want to inspect or copy Endowment records related to the debt, you must send a letter to the Endowment official designated in the Notice stating your intention. Your letter must be received within 30 days of the date of the Notice. 


(2) In response to the timely request described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the designated Endowment official will notify you of the location and time when you may inspect and copy records related to the debt. 


(3) If personal inspection of Endowment records related to the debt is impractical, reasonable arrangements will be made to send you copies of those records. 


(c) *Review official.* The Chairperson shall designate an officer or employee of the Endowment (who was not involved in the determination of the debt) as the review official. When required by law or regulation, the Endowment may request an administrative law judge to conduct the review, or may obtain a review official who is an official, employee, or agent of the United States, but who is not under the supervision or control of the Chairperson. However, unless the review is conducted by an official or employee of the Endowment, any unresolved dispute you have regarding whether all or part of the debt is past due or legally enforceable (for purposes of collection by tax refund offset under ยง 1150.31) must be referred to the Chairperson for ultimate administrative disposition, and the Chairperson must notify you of his or her determination. 


(d) *Review procedure.* After you request a review, the review official will notify you of the form of the review to be provided. The review official shall determine whether an oral hearing is required, or if a review of the written record is sufficient, in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards. In either case, the review official shall conduct the review in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards. If the review will include an oral hearing, the notice sent to you by the review official will set forth the date, time, and location of the hearing. 


(e) *Date of decision.* The review official will issue a written decision, based upon either the written record or documentary evidence and information developed at an oral hearing, as soon as practical, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the Endowment received your request for a review, unless you request, and the review official grants, a delay in the proceedings. 


(f) *Content of review decision.* The review official will prepare a written decision that includes: 


(1) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt; 


(2) The review official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and 


(3) The terms of any repayment schedule, if applicable. 


(g) *Interest, penalty charge, and administrative cost accrual during review period.* Interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs authorized by law will continue to accrue during the review period. 




