# § 1.995-6   Taxable income attributable to military property.

(a) *Gross income attributable to military property.* For purposes of section 995(b)(3)(A)(i), the term “gross income which is attributable to military property” includes income from the sale, exchange, lease, or rental of military property (as described in paragraph (c) of this section). The term also includes gross income from the performance of services which are related and subsidiary (as defined in § 1.993-1(d)) to any qualified sale, exchange, lease, or rental of military property. Where gross income cannot be determined on an item by item basis, the gross income with respect to those items not so determinable shall be apportioned. Such apportionment shall be accomplished using appropriate facts and circumstances, so that the gross income apportioned to sale of military property bears a reasonably close factual relationship to the actual gross income earned on such sales. The apportionment shall be based on methods which include the fair market value of property sold or exchanged, the fair rental value of any leaseholds granted, the fair market value of any related or subsidiary services performed in connection with such sale or leases or methods based on gross receipts or costs of goods sold, where appropriate.


(b) *Deductions.* For purposes of section 995(b)(3)(A)(ii), deductions shall be properly allocated and apportioned to gross income, described in paragraph (a) of this section, in accordance with the rules of § 1.861-8. These deductions include all applicable deductions from gross income provided under part VI of subchapter B of chapter 1 of the Code.


(c) *Military property.* For purposes of this section, the term *military property* means any property which is an arm, ammunition, or implement of war designated in the munitions list published pursuant to section 38 of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (22 U.S.C. 2778 which superseded 22 U.S.C. 1934) and the regulations thereunder (22 CFR 121.01).


(d) *Illustration.* The principles of this section may be illustrated by the following example:



---

[N] [T.D. 7984, 49 FR 40019, Oct. 12, 1984]




