# § 347.211   Examination of branches of foreign banks.

(a) *Frequency of on-site examination.* Each branch or agency of a foreign bank shall be examined on-site at least once during each 12-month period (beginning on the date the most recent examination of the office ended) by:


(1) The FRB;


(2) The FDIC, if an insured branch;


(3) The OCC, if the branch or agency of the foreign bank is licensed by the OCC; or


(4) The state supervisor, if the office of the foreign bank is licensed or chartered by the state.


(b) *18-month cycle for certain small institutions*—(1) *Mandatory standards.* The FDIC may conduct a full-scope, on-site examination at least once during each 18-month period, rather than each 12-month period as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, if the insured branch:


(i) Has total assets of less than $3 billion;


(ii) Has received a composite ROCA supervisory rating (which rates risk management, operational controls, compliance, and asset quality) of 1 or 2 at its most recent examination;


(iii) Satisfies the requirement of either the following paragraph (b)(iii)(A) or (B):


(A) The foreign bank's most recently reported capital adequacy position consists of, or is equivalent to, Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios of at least 6 percent and 10 percent, respectively, on a consolidated basis; or


(B) The insured branch has maintained on a daily basis, over the past three quarters, eligible assets in an amount not less than 108 percent of the preceding quarter's average third party liabilities (determined consistent with applicable federal and state law) and sufficient liquidity is currently available to meet its obligations to third parties;


(iv) Is not subject to a formal enforcement action or order by the FRB, FDIC, or the OCC; and


(v) Has not experienced a change in control during the preceding 12-month period in which a full-scope, on-site examination would have been required but for this section.


(2) *Discretionary standards.* In determining whether an insured branch that meets the standards of paragraph (b)(1) of this section should not be eligible for an 18-month examination cycle pursuant to this paragraph (b), the FDIC may consider additional factors, including whether:


(i) Any of the individual components of the ROCA supervisory rating of an insured branch is rated “3” or worse;


(ii) The results of any off-site monitoring indicate a deterioration in the condition of the insured branch;


(iii) The size, relative importance, and role of a particular insured branch when reviewed in the context of the foreign bank's entire U.S. operations otherwise necessitate an annual examination; and


(iv) The condition of the parent foreign bank gives rise to such a need.


(c) *Authority to conduct more frequent examinations.* Nothing in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section limits the authority of the FDIC to examine any insured branch as frequently as it deems necessary.


(d) From December 2, 2020, through December 31, 2021, for purposes of determining eligibility for the extended examination cycle described in paragraph (b) of this section, the total assets of an insured branch shall be determined based on the lesser of:


(1) The assets of the insured branch as of December 31, 2019; and


(2) The assets of the insured branch as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.



---

[N] [70 FR 17560, Apr. 6, 2005; 70 FR 20704, Apr. 21, 2005, as amended at 72 FR 17803, Apr. 10, 2007; 81 FR 10070, Feb. 29, 2016; 83 FR 43965, Aug. 29, 2018; 85 FR 77364, Dec. 2, 2020]




