# § 1554.201   Notification of security deficiencies; suspension of certificate and review process.

(a) *General.* A repair station may be subject to suspension of its FAA certificate, if security deficiencies are identified and are not corrected.


(b) *Notice of security deficiencies.* TSA provides written notification to a repair station and to the FAA of any security deficiency identified by TSA.


(c) *Response.* A repair station must provide TSA with a written explanation in English of all efforts, methods, and procedures used to correct the security deficiencies identified by TSA within 45 calendar days of receipt of the written notification described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Suspension of certificate.* If the repair station does not correct security deficiencies within 90 calendar days of the repair station's receipt of the written notice of security deficiencies, or if TSA determines that the security deficiencies have not been addressed sufficiently to comply with this section, the TSA designated official will provide written notification to the repair station and to the FAA that the repair station's certificate must be suspended. The notification will include an explanation of the basis for the suspension. The suspension remains in effect until TSA determines that the security deficiencies have been corrected.


(e) *Petition for reconsideration.* The repair station may petition TSA to reconsider its determination under paragraph (d) of this section by serving a petition for reconsideration no later than 20 calendar days after the repair station receives the notification. The repair station must serve the petition on the TSA designated official. Submission of a petition for reconsideration will not automatically stay the suspension. The repair station may request TSA to notify the FAA to stay the suspension pending review of and decision on the petition. The petition must be in writing, in English, signed by the repair station operator or owner, and include—


(1) A statement that reconsideration is requested; and


(2) A response to the suspension, including any information TSA should consider in reviewing the suspension.


(f) *Review by the TSA designated official.* The TSA designated official will consider all relevant material and information and will act on the petition no later than 15 calendar days after TSA receives the petition. The TSA designated official will either notify the repair station and the FAA that the suspension be withdrawn or affirm the suspension. The decision of the TSA designated official constitutes a final agency order subject to judicial review in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 46110.


(g) *Service of documents.* Service may be accomplished by personal delivery, certified mail, or express courier. Documents served on a repair station will be served at its official place of business. Documents served on TSA must be served at the address contained in the written notice of suspension.


(1) A certificate of service may be attached to a document tendered for filing. A certificate of service must consist of a statement, dated and signed by the person filing the document, that the document was personally delivered, served by certified mail on a specific date, or served by express courier on a specific date.


(2) The date of service is—


(i) The date of personal delivery;


(ii) If served by certified mail, the mailing date shown on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark; or


(iii) If served by express courier, the service date shown on the certificate of service, or by other evidence if there is no certificate of service.


(h) *Extension of time.* TSA may grant an extension of time to the limits set forth in this section for good cause shown. A repair station must request an extension of time in writing, and TSA must receive it at least two days before the due date in order to be considered. TSA may grant itself an extension of time for good cause.




