# § 551.1   Definitions.

Terms used in this part have the following meaning:


*Act* means the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA), as amended (43 U.S.C. 1331 *et seq.*).


*Analyzed geological information* means data collected under a permit or a lease that have been analyzed. Analysis may include, but is not limited to, identification of lithologic and fossil content, core analyses, laboratory analyses of physical and chemical properties, well logs or charts, results from formation fluid tests, and descriptions of hydrocarbon occurrences or hazardous conditions.


*Archaeological interest* means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurements, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation.


*Archaeological resources* mean any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and of archaeological interest.


*Coastal environment* means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.


*Coastal Zone* means the coastal waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adjacent shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder), strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shorelines of the several coastal States and extends seaward to the outer limit of the U.S. territorial sea.


*Coastal Zone Management Act* means the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1451 *et seq.*).


*Data* means facts, statistics, measurements, or samples that have not been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.


*Deep stratigraphic test* means drilling that involves the penetration into the sea bottom of more than 500 feet (152 meters).


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, or a subordinate authorized to act on the Director's behalf.


*Exploration* means the commercial search for oil, gas, and sulphur. Activities classified as exploration include, but are not limited to:


(1) Geological and geophysical marine and airborne surveys where magnetic, gravity, seismic reflection, seismic refraction, gas sniffers, coring, or other systems are used to detect or imply the presence of oil, gas, or sulphur; and


(2) Any drilling, whether on or off a geological structure.


*Geological and geophysical scientific research* means any oil, gas, or sulphur related investigation conducted in the OCS for scientific and/or research purposes. Geological, geophysical, and geochemical data and information gathered and analyzed are made available to the public for inspection and reproduction at the earliest practicable time. The term does not include commercial geological or geophysical exploration or research.


*Geological exploration* means exploration that uses geological and geochemical techniques (e.g., coring and test drilling, well logging, and bottom sampling) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geological scientific research.


*Geological information* means geological or geochemical data that have been analyzed, processed, or interpreted.


*Geophysical data* means measurements that have not been processed or interpreted.


*Geophysical exploration* means exploration that utilizes geophysical techniques (e.g., gravity, magnetic, electromagnetic, or seismic) to produce data and information on oil, gas, and sulphur resources in support of possible exploration and development activities. The term does not include geophysical scientific research.


*Geophysical information* means geophysical data that have been processed or interpreted.


*Governor* means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated to exercise the powers granted to a Governor pursuant to the Act.


*Human environment* means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.


*Hydrocarbon occurrence* means the direct or indirect detection during drilling operations of any liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons by examination of well cuttings, cores, gas detector readings, formation fluid tests, wireline logs, or by any other means. The term does not include background gas, minor accumulations of gas, or heavy oil residues on cuttings and cores.


*Interpreted geological information* means knowledge, often in the form of schematic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geological data and analyzed and processed geologic information.


*Interpreted geophysical information* means knowledge, often in the form of seismic cross sections, 3-dimensional representations, and maps, developed by determining the geological significance of geophysical data and processed geophysical information.


*Lease* means an agreement which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of the Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development and production of, minerals or the area covered by that authorization, whichever is required by the context.


*Lessee* means a person who has entered into, or is the BOEM approved assignee of, a lease with the United States to explore for, develop, and produce the leased minerals. The term “lessee” also includes an owner of operating rights.


*Marine environment* means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the quality of the marine ecosystem in the coastal zone and in the OCS.


*Material remains* mean physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated.


*Minerals* mean oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be produced from public lands as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).


*Notice* means a written statement of intent to conduct geological or geophysical scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS other than under a permit.


*Oil, gas, and sulphur* means oil, gas, sulphur, geopressured-geothermal, and associated resources.


*Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)* means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.


*Permit* means the contract or agreement, other than a lease, issued pursuant to this part, under which a person acquires the right to conduct on the OCS, in accordance with appropriate statutes, regulations, and stipulations:


(1) Geological exploration for mineral resources;


(2) Geophysical exploration for mineral resources;


(3) Geological scientific research; or


(4) Geophysical scientific research.


*Permittee* means the person authorized by a permit issued pursuant to this part to conduct activities on the OCS.


*Person* means a citizen or national of the United States; an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States as defined in section 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20); a private, public, or municipal corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any State or territory thereof; and associations of such citizens, nationals, resident aliens, or private, public, or municipal corporations, States, or political subdivisions of States or anyone operating in a manner provided for by treaty or other applicable international agreements. The term does not include Federal agencies.


*Processed geological or geophysical information* means data collected under a permit and later processed or reprocessed. Processing involves changing the form of data so as to facilitate interpretation. Processing operations may include, but are not limited to, applying corrections for known perturbing causes, rearranging or filtering data, and combining or transforming data elements. Reprocessing is the additional processing other than ordinary processing used in the general course of evaluation. Reprocessing operations may include varying identified parameters for the detailed study of a specific problem area. Reprocessing may occur several years after the original processing date. Reprocessing is determined to be completed on the date that the reprocessed information is first available in a useable format for in-house interpretation by BOEM or the permittee, or becomes first available to third parties via sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or a subordinate authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.


*Shallow test drilling* means drilling into the sea bottom to depths less than those specified in the definition of a deep stratigraphic test.


*Significant archaeological resource* means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4.


*Third Party* means any person other than the permittee or a representative of the United States, including all persons who obtain data or information acquired under a permit from the permittee, or from another third party, by sale, trade, license agreement, or other means.


*Violation* means a failure to comply with any provision of the Act, or a provision of a regulation or order issued under the Act, or any provision of a lease, license, or permit issued under the Act.


*You* means a person who applies for and/or obtains a permit, or files a Notice to conduct geological or geophysical exploration or scientific research related to oil, gas, and sulphur in the OCS.




