# ยง 703.20   Request for additional authority.

(a) *Additional authority.* A federal credit union may submit a written request to its regional director seeking expanded authority above the following limits in this part:


(1) Borrowing repurchase transaction maximum maturity mismatch of 30 days under ยง 703.13(d)(3)(ii).


(2) Zero-coupon investment 10-year maximum maturity under ยง 703.14(i), up to a maturity of no more than 30 years.


(3) CMRS aggregate limit of 25% of net worth under ยง 703.14(j), up to no more than 50% of net worth. To obtain approval for additional authority, the federal credit union must demonstrate three consecutive years of effective CMRS portfolio management and the ability to evaluate key risk factors.


(b) *Written request.* A federal credit union desiring additional authority must submit a written request to the NCUA regional office having jurisdiction over the geographical area in which the credit union's main office is located, that includes the following:


(1) A copy of the credit union's investment policy;


(2) The higher limit sought;


(3) An explanation of the need for additional authority;


(4) Documentation supporting the credit union's ability to manage the investment or activity; and


(5) An analysis of the credit union's prior experience with the investment or activity.


(c) *Approval process.* A regional director will provide a written determination on a request for expanded authority within 60 calendar days after receipt of the request; however, the 60-day period will not begin until the requesting credit union has submitted all necessary information to the regional director. The regional director will inform the requesting credit union, in writing, of the date the request was received and of any additional documentation that the regional director requires in support of the request. If the regional director approves the request, the regional director will establish a limit on the investment or activity as appropriate and subject to the limitations in this part. If the regional director does not notify the credit union of the action taken on its request within 60 calendar days of the receipt of the request or the receipt of additional requested supporting information, whichever occurs later, the credit union may proceed with its proposed investment or investment activity.


(d) *Appeal to NCUA Board.* A Federal credit union may request the regional director to reconsider any part of the determination made under paragraph (c) of this section and/or file an appeal with the NCUA Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart B to part 746 of this chapter.



---

[N] [77 FR 31991, May 31, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 50293, Oct. 30, 2017]




