# § 1.809-6   Modifications.

Under section 809(e), the deductions allowed under section 809(d)(12) and paragraph (a)(12) of § 1.809-5 (relating to other deductions) are subject to the following modifications:


(a) *Interest.* No deduction shall be allowed under section 163 for interest in respect of items described in section 810(c) since such interest is taken into account in the determination of required interest under section 809.


(b) *Bad debts.* No deduction shall be allowed for an addition to reserves for bad debts under section 166(c). However, a deduction for specific bad debts shall be allowed to the extent that such deduction is allowed under section 166 and the regulations thereunder. In the case of a loss incurred on the sale of mortgaged or pledged property, see § 1.166-6 of this chapter.


(c) *Charitable, etc., contributions and gifts.* (1) The deduction by a life insurance company in any taxable year for a charitable contribution (as defined in section 170(c)) shall be limited to 5 percent of the gain from operations (as determined under section 809(b)(1)), computed without regard to any deductions for:


(i) Charitable contributions under section 170;


(ii) Dividends to policyholders under section 811(b);


(iii) Certain nonparticipating contracts under section 809(d)(5);


(iv) Group life insurance contracts and group accident and health insurance contracts under section 809(d)(6);


(v) Tax-exempt interest, dividends, etc., under section 809(d)(8); and


(vi) Any operations loss carryback to the taxable year under section 812.


(2) In applying the first sentence of section 170(b)(2) as contained in section 170 or, in the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, section 170(d)(2)(B) as contained in section 170A, any excess of the charitable contributions made by a life insurance company in a taxable year over the amount deductible in such year under the limitation contained in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, shall be reduced to the extent that such excess:


(i) Reduces life insurance company taxable income (computed without regard to section 802(b)(3)) for the purpose of determining the offsets referred to in section 812(b)(2); and


(ii) Increases an operations loss carryover under section 812 for a succeeding taxable year.


(3) The application of the rules provided in section 809(e)(3) and this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:


(d) *Amortizable bond premium.* No deduction shall be allowed under section 171 for the amortization of bond premiums since a special deduction for such premiums is specifically taken into account under section 818(b).


(e) *Net operating loss deduction.* No deduction shall be allowed under section 172 since section 812 allows an “operations loss deduction”. 


(f) *Partially tax-exempt interest.* No deduction shall be allowed under section 242 for partially tax-exempt interest since section 809(d)(8) allows a deduction for such interest.


(g) *Dividends received.* No deduction shall be allowed under sections 243, 244, and 245 for dividends received since section 809(d)(8) allows a deduction for such dividends.



---

[N] [T.D. 6535, 26 FR 529, Jan. 20, 1961, as amended by T.D. 7207, 37 FR 20797, Oct. 5, 1972; 85 FR 64393, Oct. 13, 2020]




