# § 1026.56   Requirements for over-the-limit transactions.

(a) *Definition.* For purposes of this section, the term “over-the-limit transaction” means any extension of credit by a card issuer to complete a transaction that causes a consumer's credit card account balance to exceed the credit limit.


(b) *Opt-in requirement*—(1) *General.* A card issuer shall not assess a fee or charge on a consumer's credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan for an over-the-limit transaction unless the card issuer:


(i) Provides the consumer with an oral, written or electronic notice, segregated from all other information, describing the consumer's right to affirmatively consent, or opt in, to the card issuer's payment of an over-the-limit transaction;


(ii) Provides a reasonable opportunity for the consumer to affirmatively consent, or opt in, to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions;


(iii) Obtains the consumer's affirmative consent, or opt-in, to the card issuer's payment of such transactions;


(iv) Provides the consumer with confirmation of the consumer's consent in writing, or if the consumer agrees, electronically; and


(v) Provides the consumer notice in writing of the right to revoke that consent following the assessment of an over-the-limit fee or charge.


(2) *Completion of over-the-limit transactions without consumer consent.* Notwithstanding the absence of a consumer's affirmative consent under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a card issuer may pay any over-the-limit transaction on a consumer's account provided that the card issuer does not impose any fee or charge on the account for paying that over-the-limit transaction.


(c) *Method of election.* A card issuer may permit a consumer to consent to the card issuer's payment of any over-the-limit transaction in writing, orally, or electronically, at the card issuer's option. The card issuer must also permit the consumer to revoke his or her consent using the same methods available to the consumer for providing consent.


(d) *Timing and placement of notices*—(1) *Initial notice*—(i) *General.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be provided prior to the assessment of any over-the-limit fee or charge on a consumer's account.


(ii) *Oral or electronic consent.* If a consumer consents to the card issuer's payment of any over-the-limit transaction by oral or electronic means, the card issuer must provide the notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section immediately prior to obtaining that consent.


(2) *Confirmation of opt-in.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section may be provided no later than the first periodic statement sent after the consumer has consented to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions.


(3) *Notice of right of revocation.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section shall be provided on the front of any page of each periodic statement that reflects the assessment of an over-the-limit fee or charge on a consumer's account.


(e) *Content*—(1) *Initial notice.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall include all applicable items in this paragraph (e)(1) and may not contain any information not specified in or otherwise permitted by this paragraph.


(i) *Fees.* The dollar amount of any fees or charges assessed by the card issuer on a consumer's account for an over-the-limit transaction;


(ii) *APRs.* Any increased periodic rate(s) (expressed as an annual percentage rate(s)) that may be imposed on the account as a result of an over-the-limit transaction; and


(iii) *Disclosure of opt-in right.* An explanation of the consumer's right to affirmatively consent to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions, including the method(s) by which the consumer may consent.


(2) *Subsequent notice.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section shall describe the consumer's right to revoke any consent provided under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, including the method(s) by which the consumer may revoke.


(3) *Safe harbor.* Use of Model Forms G-25(A) or G-25(B) of appendix G to this part, or substantially similar notices, constitutes compliance with the notice content requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.


(f) *Joint relationships.* If two or more consumers are jointly liable on a credit card account under an open-end (not home-secured) consumer credit plan, the card issuer shall treat the affirmative consent of any of the joint consumers as affirmative consent for that account. Similarly, the card issuer shall treat a revocation of consent by any of the joint consumers as revocation of consent for that account.


(g) *Continuing right to opt in or revoke opt-in.* A consumer may affirmatively consent to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions at any time in the manner described in the notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. Similarly, the consumer may revoke the consent at any time in the manner described in the notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.


(h) *Duration of opt-in.* A consumer's affirmative consent to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions is effective until revoked by the consumer, or until the card issuer decides for any reason to cease paying over-the-limit transactions for the consumer.


(i) *Time to comply with revocation request.* A card issuer must comply with a consumer's revocation request as soon as reasonably practicable after the card issuer receives it.


(j) *Prohibited practices.* Notwithstanding a consumer's affirmative consent to a card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions, a card issuer is prohibited from engaging in the following practices:


(1) *Fees or charges imposed per cycle*—(i) *General rule.* A card issuer may not impose more than one over-the-limit fee or charge on a consumer's credit card account per billing cycle, and, in any event, only if the credit limit was exceeded during the billing cycle. In addition, except as provided in paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section, a card issuer may not impose an over-the-limit fee or charge on the consumer's credit card account for more than three billing cycles for the same over-the-limit transaction where the consumer has not reduced the account balance below the credit limit by the payment due date for either of the last two billing cycles.


(ii) *Exception.* The prohibition in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section on imposing an over-the-limit fee or charge in more than three billing cycles for the same over-the-limit transaction(s) does not apply if another over-the-limit transaction occurs during either of the last two billing cycles.


(2) *Failure to promptly replenish.* A card issuer may not impose an over-the-limit fee or charge solely because of the card issuer's failure to promptly replenish the consumer's available credit following the crediting of the consumer's payment under § 1026.10.


(3) *Conditioning.* A card issuer may not condition the amount of a consumer's credit limit on the consumer affirmatively consenting to the card issuer's payment of over-the-limit transactions if the card issuer assesses a fee or charge for such service.


(4) *Over-the-limit fees attributed to fees or interest.* A card issuer may not impose an over-the-limit fee or charge for a billing cycle if a consumer exceeds a credit limit solely because of fees or interest charged by the card issuer to the consumer's account during that billing cycle. For purposes of this paragraph (j)(4), the relevant fees or interest charges are charges imposed as part of the plan under § 1026.6(b)(3).




