# ยง 3190.0-5   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term: 


(a) *Inspection* means the examination of oil and gas lease sites, records or motor vehicle documentation by an authorized representative of the Secretary of the Interior to determine if there is compliance with applicable regulations, Onshore Oil and Gas orders, approvals, Notices to Lessees and Operators, approvals, other written orders, the mineral leasing laws, and the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act. 


(b) *Investigation* means any inquiry into any action by or on behalf of a lessee or operator of a Federal or Indian lease, or transporter of oil from such lease. 


(c) *Contractor* means any individual, corporation, association, partnership, consortium or joint venture who has contracted to carry out activities under this part. 


(d) *Enforcement* means action taken by an authorized representative of the Secretary in order to obtain compliance with applicable regulations, Onshore Oil and Gas Orders, Notices to Lessees and Operators, approvals, other written orders, the mineral leasing laws, and the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act.


(e) *Indian lands* means any lands or interests in lands of an Indian tribe or an Indian allottee held in trust by the United States or which is subject to Federal restriction against alienation, including mineral resources and mineral estates reserved to an Indian tribe or Indian allottee in the conveyance of a surface or nonmineral estate, except that such term does not include any lands subject to the provisions of section 3 of the Act of June 28, 1906 (34 Stat. 539).


(f) *Proprietary data* means information obtained from a lessee that constitutes trade secrets, or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential, or other information that may be withheld under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)).




