# ยง 395.26   ELD data automatically recorded.

(a) *In general.* An ELD provides the following functions and automatically records the data elements listed in this section in accordance with the requirements contained in appendix A to subpart B of this part.


(b) *Data automatically recorded.* The ELD automatically records the following data elements:


(1) Date;


(2) Time;


(3) CMV geographic location information;


(4) Engine hours;


(5) Vehicle miles;


(6) Driver or authenticated user identification data;


(7) Vehicle identification data; and


(8) Motor carrier identification data.


(c) *Change of duty status.* When a driver indicates a change of duty status under ยง 395.24(b), the ELD records the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.


(d) *Intermediate recording.* (1) When a commercial motor vehicle is in motion and there has not been a duty status change or another intermediate recording in the previous 1 hour, the ELD automatically records an intermediate recording that includes the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.


(2) If the intermediate recording is created during a period when the driver indicates authorized personal use of a commercial motor vehicle, the data elements in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section (engine hours and vehicle miles) will be left blank and paragraph (b)(3) of this section (location) will be recorded with a single decimal point resolution (approximately within a 10-mile radius).


(e) *Change in special driving category.* If a driver indicates a change in status under ยง 395.28(a)(2), the ELD records the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.


(f) *Certification of the driver's daily record.* The ELD provides a function for recording the driver's certification of the driver's records for every 24-hour period. When a driver certifies or recertifies the driver's records for a given 24-hour period under ยง 395.30(b)(2), the ELD records the date, time and driver identification data elements in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (6) of this section.


(g) *Log in/log out.* When an authorized user logs into or out of an ELD, the ELD records the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) and (b)(4) through (8) of this section.


(h) *Engine power up/shut down.* When a commercial motor vehicle's engine is powered up or powered down, the ELD records the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.


(i) *Authorized personal use.* If the record is created during a period when the driver has indicated authorized personal use of a commercial motor vehicle, the data element in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is logged with a single decimal point resolution (approximately within a 10-mile radius).


(j) *Malfunction and data diagnostic event.* When an ELD detects or clears a malfunction or data diagnostic event, the ELD records the data elements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) and (b)(4) through (8) of this section.




