# § 441.356   Waiver termination.

(a) *Termination by the State.* If a State chooses to terminate its waiver before an approved program is due to expire, the following conditions apply: 


(1) The State must notify CMS in writing at least 30 days before terminating services to beneficiaries. 


(2) The State must notify beneficiaries of services under the waiver at least 30 days before terminating services in accordance with § 431.210 of this chapter. 


(3) CMS continues to apply the APEL described in § 441.354 through the end of the waiver year, but this limit is not applied in subsequent years. 


(4) The State may not decrease the services available under the approved State plan to individuals age 65 or older by an amount that violates the comparability of service requirements set forth in § 440.240 of this chapter. 


(b) *Termination by CMS.* (1) If CMS finds, during an approved waiver period, that an agency is not meeting one or more of the requirements for a waiver contained in this subpart, CMS notifies the agency in writing of its findings and grants an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with § 441.357. If CMS determines that the agency is not in compliance with this subpart after the notice and any hearing, CMS may terminate the waiver. 


(2) If CMS terminates the waiver, the following conditions apply: 


(i) The State must notify beneficiaries of services under the waiver at least 30 days before terminating services in accordance with § 431.210 of this chapter. 


(ii) CMS continues to apply the APEL in § 441.354 of this subpart, but the limit is prorated according to the number of days in the fiscal year during which waiver services were offered. The limit expires concurrently with the termination of home and community-based services under the waiver. 


