# § 702.302   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart—


*Baseline scenario* means a scenario that reflects the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.


*Capital plan* means a written presentation of a covered credit union's capital planning strategies and capital adequacy process that includes the mandatory elements set forth in this subpart.


*Capital planning process* means development of a capital policy and formulation of a capital plan that conforms to this part.


*Covered credit union* means a federally insured credit union whose assets are $10 billion or more.


(1) *Timing.* A credit union that crosses the asset threshold as of March 31 of a given calendar year is subject to the applicable requirements of this subpart in the following calendar year.


(2) *Regulatory relief for 2021 and 2022.* If a federally insured credit union reaches or crosses an asset size threshold under this subpart on March 31, 2021, the NCUA will use the assets the federally insured credit union reported on March 31, 2020 for the purpose of determining the applicability of those thresholds.


*Planning horizon* means the period of 3 years over which capital planning projections extend.


*Pre-provision net revenue* means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income, less expenses, before adjusting for loss provisions.


*Provision for loan and lease losses* means the provision for loan and lease losses as reported by the covered credit union on its Call Report.


*Reverse stress test* means a test that defines severely unfavorable outcomes and then identifies events or scenarios that lead to these outcomes. Examples of severely unfavorable outcomes are breaching regulatory capital, failing to meet obligations, or being unable to continue independent operations.


*Scenarios* are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered credit union that serve as the basis for stress testing, including, but not limited to, NCUA-established baseline, scenarios and stress scenarios.


*Sensitivity testing* means testing the relationship between specific variables, parameters, and inputs and their impacts on analytical results.


*Stress scenario* means a scenario that is more adverse than that associated with the baseline scenario.


*Stress test* means the process to assess the potential impact of expected and stressed economic conditions on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a covered credit union over the planning horizon, taking into account the current state of the covered credit union and the covered credit union's risks, exposures, strategies, and activities. 


*Stress test capital* means net worth (less assistance provided under Section 208 of the Federal Credit Union Act, subordinated debt included in net worth, and NCUSIF deposit) under stress test scenarios.


*Stress test capital ratio* means a covered credit union's stress test capital divided by its total consolidated assets less NCUSIF deposit.


*Tier I credit union* means a covered credit union that has less than $15 billion in total assets.


*Tier II credit union* means a covered credit union that has $15 billion or more in total assets but less than $20 billion in total assets, or is otherwise designated as a tier II credit union by NCUA.


*Tier III credit union* means a covered credit union that has $20 billion or more in total assets, or is otherwise designated as a tier III credit union by NCUA.



---

[N] [79 FR 24315, Apr. 30, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 48012, Aug. 11, 2015; 83 FR 17909, Apr. 25, 2018; 86 FR 15401, Mar. 23, 2021]




