# § 1.322   Certificate of correction of Office mistake.

(a)(1) The Director may issue a certificate of correction pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 254 to correct a mistake in a patent, incurred through the fault of the Office, which mistake is clearly disclosed in the records of the Office:


(i) At the request of the patentee or the patentee's assignee;


(ii) Acting *sua sponte* for mistakes that the Office discovers; or


(iii) Acting on information about a mistake supplied by a third party.


(2)(i) There is no obligation on the Office to act on or respond to a submission of information or request to issue a certificate of correction by a third party under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.


(ii) Papers submitted by a third party under this section will not be made of record in the file that they relate to nor be retained by the Office.


(3) If the request relates to a patent involved in an interference or trial before the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, the request must comply with the requirements of this section and be accompanied by a motion under § 41.121(a)(2), § 41.121(a)(3), or § 42.20 of this title.


(4) The Office will not issue a certificate of correction under this section without first notifying the patentee (including any assignee of record) at the correspondence address of record as specified in § 1.33(a) and affording the patentee or an assignee an opportunity to be heard.


(b) If the nature of the mistake on the part of the Office is such that a certificate of correction is deemed inappropriate in form, the Director may issue a corrected patent in lieu thereof as a more appropriate form for certificate of correction, without expense to the patentee.



---

[N] [24 FR 10332, Dec. 22, 1959, as amended at 49 FR 48454, Dec. 12, 1984; 65 FR 54677, Sept. 8, 2000; 69 FR 50001, Aug. 12, 2004; 77 FR 46626, Aug. 6, 2012]




