# § 751.103   Definitions.

The definitions in subpart A of this part apply to this subpart unless otherwise specified in this section. In addition, the following definitions apply:


*Consumer paint and coating removal* means paint and coating removal performed by any natural person who uses a paint and coating removal product for any personal use without receiving remuneration or other form of payment.


*Distribution in commerce* has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Act, except that the term does not include retailers for purposes of §§ 751.111 and 751.113.


*ECEL* is an Existing Chemical Exposure Limit, and means an airborne concentration calculated as an eight (8)-hour time-weighted average (TWA).


*ECEL action level* means a concentration of airborne methylene chloride of 1 part per million (1 ppm) calculated as an 8-hour time weighted average (TWA).


*EPA STEL* is a Short Term Exposure Limit, which is an EPA regulatory limit on workplace exposure to an airborne concentration of a chemical substance, based on an exposure of less than eight hours.


*Paint and coating removal* means application of a chemical or use of another method to remove, loosen, or deteriorate any paint, varnish, lacquer, graffiti, surface protectants, or other coating from a substrate, including objects, vehicles, architectural features, or structures.


*Retailer* means a person who distributes in commerce or makes available a chemical substance or mixture to consumer end users, including e-commerce internet sales or distribution. Any distributor with at least one consumer end user customer is considered a retailer. A person who distributes in commerce or makes available a chemical substance or mixture solely to commercial or industrial end users or solely to commercial or industrial businesses is not considered a retailer.



---

[N] [84 FR 11435, Mar. 27, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 39296, May 8, 2024]






