# § 701.37   Treasury tax and loan depositaries; depositaries and financial agents of the Government.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) *Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) Remittance Account* means a nondividend-paying account, the balance of which is subject to the right of immediate withdrawal, established for receipt of payments of Federal taxes and certain United States obligations under United States Treasury Department regulations.


(2) *TT&L Note Account* means an account subject to the right of immediate call, evidencing funds held by depositaries electing the note option under United States Treasury Department regulations.


(3) *Treasury General Account* means an account, established under United States Treasury Department regulations, in which a zero balance may be maintained and from which the entire balance may be withdrawn by the depositor immediately under all circumstances except closure of the credit union. 


(4) *U.S. Treasury Time Deposit—Open Account* means a nondividend-bearing account, established under United States Treasury Department regulations, which generally may not be withdrawn until the expiration of 14 days after the date of the United States Treasury Department's written notice of intent to withdraw.


(b) Subject to regulation of the United States Treasury Department, a Federal credit union may serve as a Treasury tax and loan depositary, a depositary of Federal taxes, a depositary of public money, and a financial agent of the United States Government. In serving in these capacities, a Federal credit union may maintain the accounts defined in subsection (a), pledge collateral, and perform the services described under United States Treasury Department regulations for institutions acting in these capacities.


(c) Funds held in a TT&L Remittance Account, a TT&L Note Account, a Treasury General Account, and a U.S. Treasury Time Deposit—Open Account shall be considered deposits of public funds. Funds held in a TT&L Remittance Account and a TT&L Note Account shall be added together and insured up to a maximum of $250,000 in the aggregate. Funds held in a Treasury General Account and a U.S. Treasury Time Deposit—Open Account shall be added together and insured up to a maximum of $250,000 in the aggregate.


(d) Funds held in a TT&L Remittance Account, a TT&L Note Account, a Treasury General Account, and U.S. Treasury Time Deposit—Open Account are not subject to the 60-day notice requirement of Article III, section 5(a) of the Federal Credit Union Bylaws.



---

[N] [54 FR 18471, May 1, 1989, as amended at 78 FR 4030, Jan. 18, 2013]




