# ยง 512.428   Quality domain.

(a) *General.* For each PY, CMS assesses each IOTA participant on the metric described under paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine the IOTA participant's quality domain score, as described under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, for the quality domain.


(b) *Metrics included in the quality domain.* For each PY, CMS assesses each IOTA participant using the following quality metrics:


(1) *Post-transplant graft survival.* For each PY, CMS calculates an IOTA participant's composite graft survival rate by dividing the cumulative number of all functioning kidney grafts for the IOTA participant's IOTA transplant patients by the cumulative number of all kidney transplants performed by the IOTA participant during the first PY and all subsequent PYs on patients 18 years or older at the time of the transplant, as described in equation 1 to paragraph (b)(1) introductory text of this section.


(i) For the first PY, CMS calculates the IOTA participant's composite graft survival rate based solely on the number of functioning grafts furnished to IOTA transplant patients during that PY and the number of completed kidney transplants during that PY, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) For all subsequent PYs, CMS calculates the IOTA participant's cumulative composite graft survival rate using the same calculation methodology described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(iii) CMS excludes the following from the numerator when calculating the composite graft survival rate:


(A) Graft failure, based on OPTN adult kidney transplant recipient follow-up forms for all completed kidney transplants to determine failed grafts as defined by SRTR.


(B) Re-transplant.


(C) Death.


(D) Patients who are under the age of 18 years of age at the time of the kidney transplant.


(E) Offers to multi-organ candidates (except for kidney/pancreas candidates that are also listed for kidney alone).


(iv)(A) When calculating the composite graft survival rate, CMS only includes kidney transplants for patients who are 18 years of age and older at the time of the kidney transplant in the number of kidney transplants performed by the IOTA participant during each PY in the denominator.


(B) CMS identifies kidney transplants performed by the IOTA participant using OPTN data, regardless of payer, and Medicare claims data.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(c) *Quality domain scoring.* For each PY, CMS awards the IOTA participant zero to 20 points for the IOTA participant's performance in the quality domain, in accordance with the following:


(1) For composite graft survival rate, as described under paragraph (d) of this section, the IOTA participant may receive up to 20 points.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Composite graft survival rate scoring.* CMS awards points to the IOTA participant based on the IOTA participant's performance on the composite graft survival rate, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, ranked nationally, inclusive of all eligible kidney transplant hospitals. CMS awards points to the IOTA participant for composite graft survival rate as described in table 1 to paragraph (d) of this section:


