# § 390.40   Intermodal equipment providers.

An intermodal equipment provider must—


(a) Identify its operations to the FMCSA by filing the Form MCSA-1 required by § 390.201.


(b) Mark its intermodal equipment with the USDOT number as required by § 390.21 before tendering the equipment to a motor carrier.


(c) Systematically inspect, repair, and maintain, or cause to be systematically inspected, repaired, and maintained, in a manner consistent with § 396.3(a)(1), as applicable, all intermodal equipment intended for interchange with a motor carrier.


(d) Provide intermodal equipment intended for interchange that is in safe and proper operating condition.


(e) Maintain a system of driver vehicle inspection reports submitted to the intermodal equipment provider as required by § 396.11 of this chapter.


(f) Maintain a system of inspection, repair, and maintenance records as required by § 396.3(b)(3) of this chapter for equipment intended for interchange with a motor carrier.


(g) Periodically inspect equipment intended for interchange, as required under § 396.17 of this chapter.


(h) At facilities at which the intermodal equipment provider makes intermodal equipment available for interchange, have procedures in place, and provide sufficient space, for drivers to perform a pre-trip inspection of tendered intermodal equipment.


(i) At facilities at which the intermodal equipment provider makes intermodal equipment available for interchange, develop and implement procedures to repair any equipment damage, defects, or deficiencies identified as part of a pre-trip inspection, or replace the equipment, prior to the driver's departure. The repairs or replacement must be made after being notified by a driver of such damage, defects, or deficiencies.


(j) Refrain from placing intermodal equipment in service on the public highways if that equipment has been found to pose an imminent hazard, as defined in § 386.72(b)(3) of this chapter.



---

[N] [73 FR 76822, Dec. 17, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 68708, Dec. 29, 2009; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 79 FR 59457, Oct. 2, 2014; 80 FR 63712, Oct. 21, 2015]


