# ยง 1.152   Deviation from approved budget.

(a) *When notice to the Commission is required.* As to any line item, the Authority may deviate from the approved budget's expenditure information in a year by up to 10 percent in a year without providing prior notification to the Commission. If the Authority determines that it is likely to expend more than the approved expenditure for any line item by 10 percent or more, or if it will exceed its approved total expenditure by any amount, it must notify the Commission immediately upon such a determination.


(b) *Line-item deviations of more than 10 percent.* If the Authority determines that it is likely to expend more than the approved expenditure for any line item by 10 percent or more, its notice to the Commission must indicate whether it intends to repurpose funds from one or more different line items to cover the increased expenditure. The Commission retains the discretion to disapprove such a proposed repurposing. The Commission must issue any decision to disapprove a proposed repurposing within 14 business days of receiving notice of the Authority's proposal to repurpose funds from another line item. If the Commission takes no action, the Authority's proposal takes effect as an amendment to its approved budget.


(c) *Total expenditure deviation.* If the Authority determines that it is likely to expend more than the total approved expenditure, its notice to the Commission must indicate by what means it proposes to cover the difference. The Commission retains the discretion to disapprove the proposed means of covering the difference. The Commission must issue any decision to disapprove a proposed means of covering the difference within 14 business days of receiving notice of the Authority's proposal to cover the difference. If the Commission takes no action, the Authority's proposal takes effect as an amendment to its approved budget.




