# § 32.29   Georgia.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Banks Lake National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2)

 [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow alligator hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We only allow alligator hunting on dates outlined by the State of Georgia during the first two weekends (from legal sunset Friday through legal sunrise Monday) of the State alligator season.




(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of only pole and line or rod and reel, which the angler must attend at all times.


(ii) We allow sport fishing after legal sunset.


(iii) We permit fishing tournaments by Special Use Permit (General Activities Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G) issued by the refuge manager.


(b) *Blackbeard Island National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge hunt permit (electronic form) for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.


(ii) Hunters must check-in no more than 1 day in advance of the opening day of each hunt. We prohibit check-in after legal sunset of the second hunt day.


(iii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge no earlier than 1 month prior to the opening day of each hunt, but must remove the stand by the end of each hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) Hunters must check-in at the refuge dock prior to setting up camp. We require personal identification at check-in.


(v) Only hunters may camp at the designated camping area during refuge hunts.


(vi) For hunting, we allow only bows as governed by State regulations.


(vii) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these. There is no bag limit on feral hog.


(viii) Refuge personnel must check deer harvested during the scheduled hunt before hunters may remove them from the refuge.


(ix) Hunters must be off the island by 12 p.m. (noon) on Sunday.


(x) We allow mooring of boats to the government dock only for loading and unloading purposes.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow saltwater fishing year-round in the estuarine waters adjacent to the refuge.


(ii) We allow bank/beach saltwater fishing into estuarine waters only from legal sunrise to legal sunset except during managed hunts.


(c) *Bond Swamp National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) and an additional refuge quota hunt permit for the quota hunts while hunting.


(ii) We allow the incidental take of feral hog with legal weapons during open season.


(iii) We require hunters to report all harvested game at the check station before leaving the refuge (see hunting brochure).


(iv) We allow access to the hunt area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(v) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving downed waterfowl during waterfowl hunts.


(vi) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of a road open to vehicle travel or within 200 yards (180 m) of a building.


(vii) We prohibit entry into the designated hunt area by nonhunters during all quota deer-gun and waterfowl hunts.


(viii) We prohibit removal of live hogs from the refuge.


(ix) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(x) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license.


(xi) We prohibit all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) on the refuge except by wheelchair-bound hunters with a refuge Special Use Permit (General Activities—Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(xii) We prohibit leaving vehicles, boats, trailers, or decoys on the refuge overnight (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(xiii) We prohibit the possession or use of any suppressors or silencers on any firearm.


(xiv) We prohibit the possession or use of any trail or game camera or leaving any other hunting-related electronic device on the refuge.


(xv) We prohibit the possession or use of any night vision or thermal imaging equipment.


(xvi) We prohibit the possession or use of any electronic calls.


(xvii) We prohibit falconry.


(xviii) You may only place temporary blinds, blind material, and/or decoys on the day of the hunt, and you must remove them by 1:00 p.m. on that same day.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, rabbit, and quail on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) through (iv), (vi), and (viii) through (xvii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require you to possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting for upland game. The hunt brochure will serve as your hunt permit.


(iii) We require each small game hunter to wear at least 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of hunter orange as an outer garment above the waist during small game hunts.


(iv) We allow the use of dogs when hunting for squirrel, rabbit, and quail.


(v) You may place tree stands and hunting blinds during upland game and big game hunts on the day prior to each upland game and big game hunt. You must remove tree stands and hunting blinds by 11 a.m. on the day after the hunt.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting for white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv), (vi) through (ix), and (xi) through (xvii) and (c)(2)(v) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the use of buckshot.


(iii) We prohibit the use of dogs during deer and feral hog hunts.


(iv) We require each deer and feral hog hunter to wear at least 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of hunter orange as an outer garment above the waist during hunts.


(v) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older possessing a valid hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from March 1 to October 31, except on the Ocmulgee River, which is open to fishing year-round.


(ii) We allow access to the refuge and fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) We only allow fishing with pole and line or rod and reel.


(iv) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(xi) and (xii) of this section apply.


(v) We prohibit use or possession of alcoholic beverages while fishing on the refuge.


(vi) We require you to possess and carry a signed refuge fishing permit (signed brochure) while fishing.


(vii) Youth anglers age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid fishing license.


(d) *Eufaula National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.20(d) for regulations.


(e) *Harris Neck National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey, and the incidental take of coyote, armadillo, and feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439) for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.


(ii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge during the week preceding each hunt, but must remove the stand by the end of each hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91 meters) of Harris Neck Road, the refuge entrance drive, Visitor Contact Station/Office, Barbour River Landing, Barbour River Road, or Gould's Cemetery.


(iv) We require hunters to check-in and check-out each hunt day. We require personal identification to check-in and check-out.


(v) We require hunters to check all harvested game at the check station before leaving the refuge each day.


(vi) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these.


(vii) During the gun hunt, we allow only shotguns (20 gauge or larger), muzzleloaders, bows, air rifles (.30 caliber or larger), and air bows, as governed by State regulations. We prohibit the use of centerfire rifles.


(viii) We allow the incidental take of armadillo, feral hog, and coyote during any refuge hunt with the weapons legal for that hunt, subject to applicable State seasons and regulations. There is no bag limit for these species.


(ix) The turkey hunt is a youth-only, archery hunt limited to 2 days per year. To participate in the turkey hunt, youth must complete an application (FWS Form 3-2439), submit the completed application to the refuge, and be selected by lottery. Each youth hunter selected by lottery to participate in the turkey hunt must possess a free signed refuge hunt brochure while hunting.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow saltwater fishing year-round in the estuarine waters adjacent to the refuge.


(ii) We allow bank fishing into estuarine waters only from legal sunrise to legal sunset except during managed hunts.


(iii) We prohibit freshwater fishing.


(f) *Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow the hunting of rabbit, squirrel, and bobwhite quail on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs only to locate, point, and retrieve during quail hunts.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey and white-tailed deer, and feral hog as incidental take, on designated areas subject to the following conditions:


(i) In the Pocket Unit:


(A) We only allow archery hunting and foot traffic.


(B) Hunters must sign in and out each hunt day and record harvest each day.


(ii) In the Suwannee Canal Recreation Area:


(A) We allow only shotguns or muzzleloaders.


(B) We require a refuge permit (Big/Upland Game Hunt Application, FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) obtained through refuge lottery.


(C) Hunters must sign in and out each day and record harvest each day.


(D) You must tag your deer with special refuge tags.


(E) Harvest limit is two deer of either sex per day.


(F) We zone Chesser Island Hunt area to accommodate mobility-impaired and youth hunters. Only mobility-impaired hunters may use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and vehicles on firebreaks and unpaved roads.


(iii) In the Cowhouse Unit, State of Georgia's Dixon Memorial Wildlife Management Area rules, regulations, dates, and times apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit possession of live bait fish.


(ii) We allow the use of only pole and line or rod and reel as methods of take.


(g) *Piedmont National Wildlife Refuge.* (1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit upland game hunting during refuge deer or turkey hunts.


(ii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting.


(iii) We require a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) to hunt on the Hitchiti Experimental Forest.


(iv) We allow access to the hunt area from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(v) We allow hunting for raccoon and opossum from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. on the days listed as open in the refuge hunt brochure.


(vi) We only allow .22 caliber or smaller rimfire firearms for raccoon and opossum hunting.


(vii) We allow the use of dogs on designated areas of the refuge for hunting quail, squirrel, rabbit, raccoon, and opossum.


(viii) We prohibit possession or use of any suppressors or silencer on any firearms.


(ix) We prohibit possession or use of trail or game cameras or leaving any other hunting-related electronic device on the refuge.


(x) We prohibit possession or use of any night vision or thermal imaging equipment.


(xi) We prohibit possession or use of any electronic calls.


(xii) We prohibit falconry.


(xiii) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid hunting license.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting for white-tailed deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(2)(iii), (iv), and (viii) through (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) You must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure), and possess and carry an additional refuge quota hunt permit (requires contact information only) for the quota hunts, while hunting.


(iii) We prohibit buckshot.


(iv) We prohibit hunting within 50 yards (45 meters (m)) of a road open to vehicle travel or within 200 yards (180 m) of a building.


(v) You must bring any deer, turkey, or hog you harvest to the refuge check station intact, except entrails, the day you kill them and before you leave the refuge. We prohibit possession of dressed deer, turkey, or hog unless you have checked them at the refuge check station.


(vi) We prohibit all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) on the refuge except by wheelchair-bound hunters with a special use permit (General Activities—Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(vii) We prohibit dogs for hunting big game.


(viii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(ix) Youth hunters age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid hunting license. One adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from March 15 to September 30.


(ii) We allow access to the refuge and fishing from only legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) You may keep the following numbers of fish each day: Bass—5, channel catfish—5, sunfish or bream—15, and crappie—15.


(iv) We allow nonmotorized boats or boats with electric motors on all ponds designated as open to fishing.


(v) We prohibit use or possession of alcoholic beverages while fishing on the refuge.


(vi) We allow fishing only with pole and line or rod and reel.


(vii) We prohibit leaving boats or other personal equipment on the refuge overnight (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(viii) We prohibit the use of fish for bait and the possession of minnows.


(ix) We prohibit possession or take of grass carp. You must immediately release any grass carp caught.


(x) We require you to possess and carry a signed refuge fishing permit (signed brochure) while fishing.


(xi) Youth anglers age 15 and younger must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older who possesses a valid fishing license.


(h) *Savannah National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) All hunters age 16 and older must possess and carry a signed refuge hunt permit (requires contact information only).


(ii) To participate in the quota youth waterfowl hunt, youth hunters must submit the Waterfowl Lottery Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System).


(iii) You may take feral hog and coyote during all refuge hunts (migratory bird, upland, and big game) with weapons authorized and legal for those hunts.


(iv) We allow the incidental take of armadillo, beaver, opossum, and raccoon during all refuge hunts (migratory bird, upland, and big game) with firearms and other equipment authorized for use on refuge lands in Georgia only.


(v) We allow the use of dogs for retrieving migratory birds.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel and rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) You may not hunt on or within 100 yards (90 meters) of public roads, refuge facilities, roads and trails, and railroad rights-of-way, or in closed areas.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, turkey, alligator, feral hog, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) To participate in the quota gun hunt for wheelchair-dependent hunters, hunters must submit the Quota Deer Hunt Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System). To participate in the quota youth turkey hunt and learn weekend, youth hunters must submit the Big/Upland Game Hunt Application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System).


(iii) You may only use bows, as governed by State regulations, for deer, feral hog, and coyote hunting during the archery hunt for these species.


(iv) You may only use shotguns (20 gauge or larger, slugs only), centerfire rifles, centerfire pistols, muzzleloaders, and bows, as governed by State regulations, for deer, feral hog, and coyote hunting during the firearm hunts for these species.


(v) Hunters may take as many as five deer (no more than two antlered). There is no bag limit on feral hog or coyote.


(vi) We allow only shotguns with approved nontoxic #2 shot or smaller, and bows, as governed by State regulations, for turkey hunting. We prohibit the use of slugs or buckshot for turkey hunting.


(vii) We prohibit catch-and-release of alligators.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Anglers may fish in refuge impoundments and canals from March 1 through November 30 annually.


(ii) Anglers may fish in Kingfisher Pond and all tidal creeks year-round.


(iii) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iv) Anglers may bank fish year-round throughout the refuge, unless otherwise posted.


(v) Anglers may only use nonmotorized boats and boats with electric motors within impounded waters.


(i) *Wassaw National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge hunt permit for all hunters age 16 and older. Hunters must sign the permit and carry it with them at all times when hunting.


(ii) Refuge personnel must check deer harvested during scheduled hunts before hunters leave the refuge.


(iii) Hunters may take five deer (no more than two antlered), and we will issue State bonus tags for two of these. There is no bag limit on feral hog.


(iv) We prohibit the use of buckshot.


(v) We allow mooring of boats to the government dock only for loading or unloading purposes.


(vi) Hunters must check-in at the refuge dock prior to setting up camp. We require personal identification at check-in.


(vii) We allow only hunters to camp at the designated camping area while participating in refuge hunts.


(viii) Each hunter may place one stand on the refuge no earlier than 1 month prior to the opening day of each hunt, but you must remove all stands by the end of each hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ix) Hunters must be off the island by 12 p.m. (noon) the day following the last day of the hunt.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow saltwater fishing year-round in the estuarine waters adjacent to the refuge.


(ii) We allow bank/beach fishing into estuarine waters only from legal sunrise to legal sunset except during managed hunts.


(iii) We prohibit freshwater fishing.


(j) *Wolf Island National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions: We allow saltwater fishing year-round in the estuarine waters adjacent to the refuge.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54109, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48858, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57129, Sept. 16, 2022]




