# § 36.102   Application.

(a) *General.* This part applies to any—


(1) Public accommodation; 


(2) Commercial facility; or 


(3) Private entity that offers examinations or courses related to applications, licensing, certification, or credentialing for secondary or postsecondary education, professional, or trade purposes. 


(b) *Public accommodations.* (1) The requirements of this part applicable to public accommodations are set forth in subparts B, C, and D of this part. 


(2) The requirements of subparts B and C of this part obligate a public accommodation only with respect to the operations of a place of public accommodation. 


(3) The requirements of subpart D of this part obligate a public accommodation only with respect to—


(i) A facility used as, or designed or constructed for use as, a place of public accommodation; or 


(ii) A facility used as, or designed and constructed for use as, a commercial facility. 


(c) *Commercial facilities.* The requirements of this part applicable to commercial facilities are set forth in subpart D of this part. 


(d) *Examinations and courses.* The requirements of this part applicable to private entities that offer examinations or courses as specified in paragraph (a) of this section are set forth in § 36.309. 


(e) *Exemptions and exclusions.* This part does not apply to any private club (except to the extent that the facilities of the private club are made available to customers or patrons of a place of public accommodation), or to any religious entity or public entity. 




