# § 1.479   Disclosures to elements of the criminal justice system which have referred patients.

(a) VA may disclose information about a patient from records covered by §§ 1.460 through 1.499 of this part to those persons within the criminal justice system which have made participation in a VA treatment program a condition of the disposition of any criminal proceedings against the patient or of the patient's parole or other release from custody if: 


(1) The disclosure is made only to those individuals within the criminal justice system who have a need for the information in connection with their duty to monitor the patient's progress (e.g., a prosecuting attorney who is withholding charges against the patient, a court granting pretrial or posttrial release, probation or parole officers responsible for supervision of the patient); and 


(2) The patient has signed a written consent as a condition of admission to the treatment program meeting the requirements of § 1.475 of this part (except paragraph (a)(8) which is inconsistent with the revocation provisions of paragraph (c) of this section) and the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. 


(b) *Duration of consent.* The written consent must state the period during which it remains in effect. This period must be reasonable, taking into account: 


(1) The anticipated length of the treatment recognizing that revocation of consent may not generally be effected while treatment is ongoing; 


(2) The type of criminal proceeding involved, the need for the information in connection with the final disposition of that proceeding, and when the final disposition will occur; and 


(3) Such other factors as the facility, the patient, and the person(s) who will receive the disclosure consider pertinent. 


(c) *Revocation of consent.* The written consent must state that it is revocable upon the passage of a specified amount of time or the occurrence of a specified, ascertainable event. The time or occurrence upon which consent becomes revocable may be no earlier than the individual's completion of the treatment program and no later than the final disposition of the conditional release or other action in connection with which consent was given. 


(d) *Restrictions on redisclosure and use.* A person who receives patient information under this section may redisclose and use it only to carry out that person's official duties with regard to the patient's conditional release or other action in connection with which the consent was given, including parole. 



---

[N] [60 FR 63929, Dec. 13, 1995, as amended at 85 FR 64043, Oct. 9, 2020]




