# § 357.28   Transaction requests.

(a) *General.* Unless otherwise authorized by the Department, a transaction request must be submitted on a transaction request form. In the case of certain transactions specified by the Department, the owner's signature on the form must be certified or guaranteed, as provided in § 357.31. If the transaction request form is received more than six (6) months after its execution, it will not be honored by the Department and will be returned to the sender for further instructions.


(b) *Individuals*—(1) *General.* A transaction request must be signed by the owner of the security. In addition to any required certification, a transaction request form executed by a person by mark, e.g., “(X)”, must be witnessed by a disinterested person. The following language should be added to the form and be signed by the witness:


(2) *Change of name.* If an individual's name has been changed from that appearing in the registration, the individual should sign both names to the transaction request form and state the manner in which the change occurred.


(3) *Natural guardians.* A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor may be executed by the natural guardian. If a security is registered in the names of both parents as natural guardians of a minor, both must execute a transaction request. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the natural guardian(s):


(i) Which would transfer the security to a natural guardian in his or her own right; or


(ii) After the Department receives notice of the minor's attainment of majority, the qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the minor.


(4) *Voluntary guardians.* A transaction request involving a security belonging to an owner who has become incompetent may be executed by a voluntary guardian, but only after approval by the Department of the voluntary guardian's application for such designation. However, the Department will not honor a transaction request by the voluntary guardian:


(i) Which would transfer the security to a voluntary guardian in his or her own right; or


(ii) After the Department receives notice of the ward's restoration to competency, the qualification of a legal guardian or similar representative, or the death of the ward. See § 357.21(b)(4).


(c) *Representatives*—(1) *General.* Any representative of an owner's estate, other than a trustee, may execute a transaction request form if the representative submits to the Department properly authenticated evidence of the authority to act. The evidence will not be accepted if dated more than one year prior to the date of submission of the transaction request.


(2) *Decedent's estate has been settled previously.* If a decedent's estate has been settled previously through judicial proceedings, the persons entitled may make a transaction request. A certified copy of the court-approved final accounting for the estate, the court's decree of distribution, or other appropriate evidence will be required.


(3) *Special provisions under the law of the jurisdiction of the decedent's domicile.* If there is no formal or regular administration and no representative of the decedent's estate is to be appointed, the person appointed to receive or distribute the assets of a decedent's estate without regular administration under applicable local law summary or small estates procedures may make a transaction request. Appropriate evidence will be required.


(4) *When administration is required.* If the total redemption value of the Treasury securities and undelivered payments, if any, held directly on our records that are the property of the decedent's estate is greater than $100,000, administration of the decedent's estate will be required. The redemption value of savings bonds and the principal amount of marketable securities will be used to determine the value of securities, and will be determined as of the date of death. Administration may also be required at the discretion of the Department for any case.


(5) *Voluntary representative for small estates of decedents that are not being otherwise administered*—(i) *General.* A voluntary representative is a person qualified according to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, to make a transaction request. The voluntary representative procedures are for the convenience of the Department; entitlement to the decedent's securities and held payments, if any, is determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. Voluntary representative procedures may be used only if:


(A) There has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, and no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used;


(B) The total redemption value of the Treasury securities and held payments, if any, that are the property of the decedent's estate is $100,000 or less as of the date of death; and


(C) There is a person eligible to serve as the voluntary representative according to paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Authority of voluntary representative.* A voluntary representative may make a transaction request to distribute the securities to or for the benefit of the persons entitled by laws of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death.


(iii) *Order of precedence for voluntary representative.* An individual eighteen years of age or older may act as a voluntary representative according to the following order of precedence: A surviving spouse; if there is no surviving spouse, then a child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased child of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a parent of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a descendant of a deceased brother or sister of the decedent; if there are none of the above, then a next of kin of the decedent, as determined by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. As used in this order of precedence, child means a natural or adopted child of the decedent.


(iv) *Liability.* By serving, the voluntary representative warrants that the distribution of securities or proceeds is to or on behalf of the persons entitled by the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The United States is not liable to any person for the improper distribution of securities or proceeds. Upon distribution of the securities or proceeds at the request of the voluntary representative, the United States is released to the same extent as if it had paid or delivered to a representative of the estate appointed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction in which the decedent was domiciled at the date of death. The voluntary representative shall indemnify and hold harmless the United States and all creditors and persons entitled to the estate of the decedent. The amount of the indemnification is limited to an amount no greater than the value received by the voluntary representative.


(v) *Creditor.* If there has been no administration, no administration is contemplated, no summary or small estate procedures under applicable local law have been used, and there is no person eligible to serve as a voluntary representative pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section, then a creditor may make a claim for payment of the amount of the debt, providing the debt has not been barred by applicable local law.


(d) *Private organizations*—(1) *Corporations and unincorporated associations.* A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a corporation or an unincorporated association (either in its own right or in a representative capacity), may be executed by an authorized person on its behalf. The request must be supported by evidence of the person's authority to act.


(2) *Partnerships.* A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a partnership must be executed by a general partner.


(e) *Government entities.* A transaction request involving a security registered in the name of a State, county, city, school district, or other governmental entity, public body or corporation, must be executed by an authorized officer of the entity. The request must be supported by evidence of the officer's authority to act.


(f) *Public officers.* A transaction request involving a security registered in the title of a public officer must be executed by the officer. The request must be supported by evidence of incumbency.


(g) *Attorneys-in-fact.* A transaction request made by an attorney-in-fact must be accompanied by the original power of attorney or a properly authenticated copy. A power of attorney must be executed in the presence of a notary public or a certifying individual. See § 357.31. The power of attorney will not be accepted if it was executed more than two (2) years before the date the transaction request was executed, unless the power provides that the authority of the attorney-in-fact continues notwithstanding the incapacity of the principal. If two or more attorneys-in-fact are named, all must execute the transaction request unless the power authorizes fewer than all to act. A transaction request executed by an attorney-in-fact seeking transfer of a security to the attorney-in-fact will not be accepted unless expressly authorized by the document appointing the attorney-in-fact.



---

[N] [51 FR 18265, May 16, 1986; 51 FR 18884, May 23, 1986, as amended at 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2006]




