# § 8.4   What procedures are followed in response to a demand for testimony?

(a) After an employee receives a demand for testimony, the employee shall immediately notify the Secretary and request instructions. 


(b) An employee may not give testimony without the prior written authorization of the Secretary. 


(c)(1) The Secretary may allow an employee to testify if the Secretary determines that the demand satisfies the requirements of § 8.3 and that granting permission— 


(i) Would be appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the matter in which the demand arises and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations; and 


(ii) Would not be contrary to an interest of the United States, which includes furthering a public interest of the Department and protecting the human and financial resources of the United States. 


(2) The Secretary may establish conditions under which the employee may testify. 


(d) If a response to a demand for testimony is required before the Secretary determines whether to allow an employee to testify, the employee or counsel for the employee shall—


(1) Inform the court or other authority of the regulations in this part; and 


(2) Request that the demand be stayed pending the employee's receipt of the Secretary's instructions. 


(e) If the court or other authority declines the request for a stay, or rules that the employee must comply with the demand regardless of the Secretary's instructions, the employee or counsel for the employee shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand, citing *United States ex rel. Touhy* v. *Ragen,* 340 U.S. 462 (1951), and the regulations in this part. 


