# ยง 301.38-3   Protected areas.

(a) The Administrator may designate as a protected area in accordance with paragraph (d)of this section any State that has eradicated rust-susceptible plants of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia* under the cooperative Federal-State eradication program. In addition, the State must employ personnel with responsibility for the issuance and withdrawal of certificates in accordance with ยง 301.38-5, and maintain and enforce an inspection program under which every plant nursery within the State is inspected at least once each year to ensure that they are free of rust-susceptible plants. During the requisite nursery inspections, all nursery stock shall be examined to determine that it consists only of rust-resistant varieties of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia,* and that the plants are true to type. Plants that do not meet this criteria must be destroyed. 


(b) The Administrator may designate as a protected area any county within a State, rather than the entire State, if areas within the State have eradicated rust-susceptible plants of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia* under the cooperative Federal-State program, and; 


(1) The State employs personnel with responsibility for the issuance and withdrawal of certificates in accordance with ยง 301.38-5; 


(2) The State is enforcing restrictions on the intrastate movement of the regulated articles that are equivalent to those imposed by this subpart on the interstate movement of regulated articles, as determined by the Administrator; and 


(3) The State maintains and enforces an inspection program under which every plant nursery within the county is inspected at least once each year to ensure that plant nurseries within that area are free of rust-susceptible plants of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia.* During the requisite nursery inspections, all nursery stock shall be examined to determine that it consists only of rust-resistant varieties of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia,* and that the plants are true to type. Plants that do not meet this criteria must be destroyed. 


(c) All seed used to propagate plants of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia* in protected areas, and all seed used to propagate plants of the genera *Berberis, Mahoberberis,* and *Mahonia* that are certified as rust-resistant for interstate movement into protected areas, must be produced at properties where a State inspector has verified that no wild or domesticated rust-susceptible plants are growing at or within one-half mile of the property. 
1

(d) The Administrator will publish a list of all protected areas on the Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) website at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry.* The list will include the date that the list was last updated. Lists of all protected areas may also be obtained by request from any local PPQ office; local offices are listed in telephone directories and on the internet at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/sphd.* After a change is made to the list of protected areas in accordance with this section, APHIS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ informing the public that the change has occurred and describing the change to the protected areas.






(e) Each State that is a protected area or that encompasses a protected area must submit annually to the Administrator a written statement, signed by an inspector, assuring APHIS that all nursery inspections have been performed in accordance with this section. The statement must be submitted by January 1st of each year, and must include a list of the nurseries inspected and found free of rust-susceptible plants. 


(f) The Administrator may remove a protected area from the list of designated protected areas at *www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/plant-pest-and-disease-programs/pests-and-diseases/barberry/ct_barberry* if he or she determines that it no longer meets the criteria of paragraph (a) or (b)(1) through (3) of this section. A hearing will be held to resolve any conflict as to any material fact. Rules of practice for the hearing shall be adopted by the Administrator. 



---

[N] [54 FR 32791, Aug. 10, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 29558, July 20, 1990; 57 FR 3118, Jan. 28, 1992; 71 FR 5778, Feb. 3, 2006; 87 FR 80004, Dec. 29, 2022]




