# § 1200.3   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Approving Official* means a Regional Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


*Carry-forward funds* means those funds that a State has not expended on projects in the fiscal year in which they were apportioned or allocated, that are being brought forward and made available for expenditure in a subsequent fiscal year.


*Contract authority* means the statutory language that authorizes an agency to incur an obligation without the need for a prior appropriation or further action from Congress and which, when exercised, creates a binding obligation on the United States for which Congress must make subsequent liquidating appropriations.


*Fiscal year* means the Federal fiscal year, consisting of the 12 months beginning each October 1 and ending the following September 30.


*Governor* means the Governor of any of the fifty States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.


*Governor's Representative for Highway Safety* means the official appointed by the Governor to implement the State's highway safety program or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), an official of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or other Department of Interior official who is duly designated by the Secretary of the Interior to implement the Indian highway safety program.


*Highway Safety Plan (HSP)* means the document, coordinated with the State strategic highway safety plan as defined in 23 U.S.C. 148(a), that the State submits each fiscal year as its application for highway safety grants, which describes the strategies and projects the State plans to implement and the resources from all sources it plans to use to achieve its highway safety performance targets.


*Highway safety program* means the planning, strategies and performance measures, and general oversight and management of highway safety strategies and projects by the State either directly or through sub-recipients to address highway safety problems in the State. A State highway safety program is defined in the annual Highway Safety Plan and any amendments.


*MAP-21 or “Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act”* means Public Law 112-141.


*NHTSA* means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


*Program area* means any of the national priority safety program areas identified in 23 U.S.C. 405 or a program area identified by the State in the highway safety plan as encompassing a major highway safety problem in the State and for which documented effective or projected by analysis to be effective countermeasures have been identified.


*Project* means any undertaking or activity proposed or implemented with grant funds under 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4.


*Project agreement* means a written agreement at the State level or between the State and a subgrantee or contractor under which the State agrees to provide 23 U.S.C. Chapter 4 funds in exchange for the subgrantee's or contractor's performance of one or more undertakings or activities supporting the highway safety program.


*Project number* means a unique identifier assigned by a State to each project in the HSP.


*Public road* means any road under the jurisdiction of and maintained by a public authority and open to public travel.


*Section 402* means section 402 of title 23 of the United States Code.


*Section 405* means section 405 of title 23 of the United States Code.


*State* means, except as provided in § 1200.25(b), any of the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or, for the application of this part to Indian Country as provided in 23 U.S.C. 402(h), the Secretary of the Interior.


*State highway safety improvement program* means the program defined in section 148(a)(11) of title 23 of the United States Code.


*State strategic highway safety plan* means the plan defined in section 148(a)(12) of title 23, United States Code.




