# ยง 414.1350   Cost performance category.

(a) *Specification of cost measures.* For purposes of assessing performance of MIPS eligible clinicians on the cost performance category, CMS specifies cost measures for a performance period.


(b) *Attribution.* (1) Cost measures are attributed at the TIN/NPI level for the 2017 thorough 2019 performance periods.


(2) For the total per capita cost measure specified for the 2017 through 2019 performance periods, beneficiaries are attributed using a method generally consistent with the method of assignment of beneficiaries under ยง 425.402 of this chapter.


(3) For the Medicare Spending per Beneficiary clinician (MSPB clinician) measure specified for the 2017 through 2019 performance periods, an episode is attributed to the MIPS eligible clinician who submitted the plurality of claims (as measured by allowed charges) for Medicare Part B services rendered during an inpatient hospitalization that is an index admission for the MSPB clinician measure during the applicable performance period.


(4) For the acute condition episode-based measures specified for the 2017 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills at least 30 percent of inpatient evaluation and management (E/M) visits during the trigger event for the episode.


(5) For the procedural episode-based measures specified for the 2017 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills a Medicare Part B claim with a trigger code during the trigger event for the episode.


(6) For the acute inpatient medical condition episode-based measures specified for the 2019 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who bills inpatient E/M claim lines during a trigger inpatient hospitalization under a TIN that renders at least 30 percent of the inpatient E/M claim lines in that hospitalization.


(7) For the procedural episode-based measures specified for the 2019 performance period, an episode is attributed to each MIPS eligible clinician who renders a trigger service as identified by HCPCS/CPT procedure codes.


(8) Beginning with the 2020 performance period, each cost measure is attributed according to the measure specifications for the applicable performance period.


(c) *Case minimums.* (1) For the total per capita cost measure, the case minimum is 20.


(2) For the Medicare spending per beneficiary clinician measure, the case minimum is 35.


(3) For the episode-based measures specified for the 2017 performance period, the case minimum is 20.


(4) For the procedural episode-based measures specified beginning with and after the CY 2019 performance period/2021 MIPS payment year, the case minimum is 10, unless otherwise specified for individual measures. Beginning with the CY 2022 performance period/2024 MIPS payment year, the case minimum for Colon and Rectal Resection procedural episode-based measure is 20 episodes.


(5) For the acute inpatient medical condition episode-based measures specified beginning with and after CY 2019 performance period/2021 MIPS payment year, the case minimum is 20, unless otherwise specified for individual measures.


(6) For the chronic condition episode-based measures specified beginning with and after the CY 2022 performance period/2024 MIPS payment year, the case minimum is 20, unless otherwise specified for individual measures.


(7) For the care setting episode-based measures specified beginning with and after the CY 2024 performance period/2026 MIPS payment year, the case minimum is 20, unless otherwise specified for individual measures.


(d) *Scoring weight.* Unless a different scoring weight is assigned by CMS under section 1848(q)(5)(F) of the Act, performance in the cost performance category comprises:


(1) Zero percent of a MIPS eligible clinician's final score for MIPS payment year 2019.


(2) 10 percent of a MIPS eligible clinician's final score for MIPS payment year 2020.


(3) 15 percent of a MIPS eligible clinician's final score for MIPS payment years 2021 and 2022.


(4) 20 percent of the MIPS final score for MIPS payment year 2023.


(5) 30 percent of the MIPS final score for MIPS payment year 2024 and each subsequent MIPS payment year.


(e) *Cost measure removal criteria.* CMS may remove a cost measure from MIPS based on one or more of the following factors, provided however CMS may retain a cost measure that meets one or more of the following factors if CMS determines the benefit of retaining the measure outweighs the benefit of removing it.


(1) It is not feasible to implement the measure specifications.


(2) A measure steward is no longer able to maintain the cost measure.


(3) The implementation costs or negative unintended consequences associated with a cost measure outweigh the benefit of its continued use in the MIPS cost performance category.


(4) The measure specifications do not reflect current clinical practice or guidelines.


(5) The availability of a more applicable measure, including a measure that applies across settings, applies across populations, or is more proximal in time to desired patient outcomes for the particular topic.



---

[N] [83 FR 60079, Nov. 23, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 63195, Nov. 15, 2019, 85 FR 85031, Dec. 28, 2020; 86 FR 65671, Nov. 19, 2021; 88 FR 79535, Nov. 16, 2023; 89 FR 98561, Dec. 9, 2024]




