# § 160.057-5   Marking.

(a) *Directions for use.* Each floating orange smoke distress signal shall be plainly and indelibly marked in black lettering not less than 3 mm (
1/8 in.) high “Approved for daytime use only”, and in black lettering not less than 5 mm (
3/16 in.) high with the word “Directions”. Immediately below shall be similarly marked in black lettering not less than 3 mm (
1/8 in.) high in numbered paragraphs, and in simple and easily understood wording, instructions to be followed to make the device operative. Pasted-on labels are not acceptable.


(b) *Other markings.* (1) There shall be embossed or die-stamped, in the outer container in figures not less than 5 mm (
3/16 in.) high, numbers, indicating the month and year of manufacture, thus: “6-54” indicating June 1954. The outer container shall also be plainly and indelibly marked with the commercial designation of the signal, the words “Floating Orange Smoke Distress Signal (15 minutes)”, name and address of the manufacturer, the Coast Guard Approval No., the service life expiration date (month and year to be entered by the manufacturer), the month and year of manufacture and the lot number.


(2) In addition to any other marking placed on the smallest packing carton or box containing floating orange smoke distress signals, such cartons or boxes shall be plainly and indelibly marked to show the service life expiration date, the month and year of manufacture, and the lot number.


(3) The largest carton or box in which the manufacturer ships signals must be marked with the following or equivalent words: “Keep under cover in a dry place.”


(c) *Marking of expiration date.* The expiration date must be not more than 42 months from the date of manufacture.


