# ยง 712.14   Medical assessment.

(a) *Purpose.* The HRP medical assessment is performed to evaluate whether an HRP candidate or an HRP-certified individual:


(1) Represents a security concern; or


(2) Has a condition that may prevent the individual from performing HRP duties in a reliable and safe manner.


(b) *When performed.* (1) The medical assessment is performed initially on HRP candidates and individuals occupying HRP positions who have not yet received HRP certification. The medical assessment is performed annually for HRP-certified individuals, or more often as required by the SOMD.


(2) The Designated Physician and other examiners working under the direction of the Designated Physician also will conduct an evaluation:


(i) If an HRP-certified individual requests an evaluation (*i.e.,* self-referral); or


(ii) If an HRP-certified individual is referred by management for an evaluation.


(c) *Process.* The Designated Physician, under the supervision of the SOMD, is responsible for the medical assessment of HRP candidates and HRP-certified individuals. In performing this responsibility, the Designated Physician or the SOMD must integrate the medical evaluations, available testing results, psychological evaluations, any psychiatric evaluations, a review of current legal drug use, and any other relevant information. This information is used to determine if a reliability, safety, or security concern exists and if the individual is medically qualified for his or her assigned duties.


(d) *Evaluation.* The Designated Physician, with the assistance of the Designated Psychologist, must determine the existence or nature of any of the following:


(1) Physical or medical disabilities, such as a lack of visual acuity, defective color vision, impaired hearing, musculoskeletal deformities, and neuromuscular impairment;


(2) Mental/personality disorders or behavioral problems, including alcohol and other substance use disorders, as described in the *Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders;*

(3) Use of illegal drugs or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances, as identified by self-reporting or by medical or psychological evaluation or testing;


(4) Threat of suicide, homicide, or physical harm; or


(5) Medical conditions such as cardiovascular disease, endocrine disease, cerebrovascular or other neurologic disease, or the use of drugs for the treatment of conditions that may adversely affect the judgment or ability of an individual to perform assigned duties in a reliable and safe manner.


(e) *Job task analysis.* Before the initial or annual medical assessment and psychological evaluation, employers must provide, to both the Designated Physician and Designated Psychologist, a job task analysis for each HRP candidate or HRP-certified individual. Medical assessments and psychological evaluations may not be performed if a job task analysis has not been provided.


(f) *Psychological evaluations.* Psychological evaluations must be conducted:


(1) For initial HRP certification. This psychological evaluation consists of a psychological assessment (test), approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee, and a semi-structured interview.


(2) For recertification: This psychological evaluation consists of a semi-structured interview. A psychological assessment (test) may also be conducted as warranted.


(3) Every third year: The medical assessment for recertification must include a psychological assessment (test) approved by the Director, Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security or his or her designee. This requirement can be implemented over a 3-year period for individuals who are currently in an HRP position.


(4) When additional psychological or psychiatric evaluations are required by the SOMD to resolve any concerns.


(g) *Return to work after sick leave.* HRP-certified individuals who have been on sick leave for five or more consecutive days, or an equivalent time period for those individuals on an alternative work schedule, must report in person to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD before being allowed to return to normal duties. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must provide a written recommendation to the appropriate HRP supervisor regarding the individual's return to work. An HRP-certified individual also may be required to report to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD for written recommendation to return to normal duties after any period of sick leave.


(h) *Temporary removal or restrictions.* The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD may recommend temporary removal of an individual from an HRP position or restrictions on an individual's work in an HRP position if a medical condition or circumstance develops that affects the individual's ability to perform assigned job duties. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must immediately recommend medical removal or medical restrictions in writing to the appropriate HRP management official. If the HRP management official concurs, he or she will then notify the appropriate HRP certifying official. To reinstate or remove such restrictions, the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD must make written recommendation to the HRP management official. The HRP management official will then notify the appropriate HRP certifying official.


(i) *Medical evaluation after rehabilitation.* (1) Individuals who request reinstatement in the HRP following rehabilitative treatment for alcohol use disorder, use of illegal drugs, or the abuse of legal drugs or other substances, must undergo an evaluation, as prescribed by the SOMD, to ensure continued rehabilitation and adequate capability to perform their job duties.


(2) The HRP certifying official may reinstate HRP certification of an individual who successfully completes an SOMD-approved drug or alcohol rehabilitation program. Recertification is based on the SOMD's follow-up evaluation and recommendation. The individual is also subject to unannounced follow-up tests for illegal drugs or alcohol and relevant counseling for 3 years.


(j) *Medication and treatment.* HRP-certified individuals are required to immediately report to the Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD any physical or mental condition requiring medication or treatment. The Designated Physician, the Designated Psychologist, or the SOMD determines if temporary removal of the individual from HRP duties is recommended and follows the procedures pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section.



---

[N] [83 FR 18200, Apr. 26, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 41292, June 26, 2023]




