# § 565.12   Definitions.

(a) *Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards Definitions.* Unless otherwise indicated, all terms used in this part that are defined in 49 CFR 571.3 are used as defined in 49 CFR 571.3.


(b) *Other definitions.* As used in this part—


*Body type* means the general configuration or shape of a vehicle distinguished by such characteristics as the number of doors or windows, cargo carrying features and the roofline (*e.g.,* sedan, fastback, hatchback).


*Check digit* means a single number or the letter X used to verify the accuracy of the transcription of the vehicle identification number.


*Engine type* means a power source with defined characteristics such as fuel utilized, number of cylinders, displacement, and net brake horsepower. The specific manufacturer and make shall be represented if the engine powers a passenger car or a multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kg (10,000 lb) or less.


*High-volume manufacturer,* for purposes of this part, means a manufacturer of 1,000 or more vehicles of a given type each year.


*Incomplete vehicle* means an assemblage consisting, as a minimum, of frame and chassis structure, power train, steering system, suspension system and braking system, to the extent that those systems are to be part of the completed vehicle, that requires further manufacturing operations, other than the addition of readily attachable components, such as mirrors, or tire and rim assemblies, or minor finishing operations such as painting, to become a completed vehicle.


*Line* means a name that a manufacturer applies to a family of vehicles within a make which have a degree of commonality in construction, such as body, chassis or cab type.


*Low-volume manufacturer,* for purposes of this part, means a manufacturer of fewer than 1,000 vehicles of a given type each year.


*Make* means a name that a manufacturer applies to a group of vehicles or engines.


*Manufacturer* means a person—


(1) Manufacturing or assembling motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment; or


(2) Importing motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment for resale.


*Manufacturer identifier* means the first three digits of a VIN of a vehicle manufactured by a high-volume manufacturer, and the first three digits of a VIN and the twelfth through fourteenth digits of a VIN of a vehicle manufactured by a low-volume manufacturer.


*Model* means a name that a manufacturer applies to a family of vehicles of the same type, make, line, series and body type.


*Model year* means the year used to designate a discrete vehicle model, irrespective of the calendar year in which the vehicle was actually produced, provided that the production period does not exceed 24 months.


*Original model year of a replicated vehicle* means the stated model year of a vehicle that has been replicated pursuant to 49 CFR part 586.


*Plant of manufacture* means the plant where the manufacturer affixes the VIN.


*Replica motor vehicle* means a motor vehicle meeting the definition of replica motor vehicle in 49 CFR part 586.


*Replica model year* means the calendar year in which a replica motor vehicle was manufactured.


*Series* means a name that a manufacturer applies to a subdivision of a “line” denoting price, size or weight identification and that is used by the manufacturer for marketing purposes.


*Trailer kit* means a trailer that is fabricated and delivered in complete but unassembled form and that is designed to be assembled without special machinery or tools.


*Type* means a class of vehicle distinguished by common traits, including design and purpose. Passenger cars, multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks, buses, trailers, incomplete vehicles, low speed vehicles, and motorcycles are separate types.


*VIN* means a series of Arabic numbers and Roman letters that is assigned to a motor vehicle for identification purposes.



---

[N] [87 FR 13231, Mar. 9, 2022]




