# § 62.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part and any Notice of Fund Availability issued under this part:


*Applicant* means an eligible entity that submits an application for a supportive services grant announced in a Notice of Fund Availability.


*Area or community* means a political subdivision or contiguous political subdivisions (such as a precinct, ward, borough, city, county, State, Congressional district or tribal reservation) with an identifiable population of very low-income veteran families.


*Consumer cooperative* has the meaning given such term in section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q).


*Date of completion* means the earliest of the following dates:


(1) The date on which all required work is completed;


(2) The date specified in the supportive services grant agreement, or any supplement or amendment thereto; or


(3) The effective date of a supportive services grant termination under § 62.80(c).


*Disallowed costs* means costs charged by a grantee that VA determines to be unallowable based on applicable Federal cost principles, or based on this part or the supportive services grant agreement.


*Eligible child care provider* means a provider of child care services for compensation, including a provider of care for a school-age child during non-school hours, that—


(1) Is licensed, regulated, registered, or otherwise legally operating, under state and local law; and


(2) Satisfies the state and local requirements, applicable to the child care services the provider provides.


*Eligible entity* means a:


(1) Private non-profit organization, or


(2) Consumer cooperative.


*Emergency housing* means temporary housing provided under § 62.34(f) that does not require the participant to sign a lease or occupancy agreement.


*Extremely low-income veteran family* means a veteran family whose annual income, as determined in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609, does not exceed 30 percent of the median income for an area or community.


*General housing stability assistance* means the provision of goods or payment of expenses that are directly related to supporting a participant's housing stability and are authorized under § 62.34(e).


*Grantee* means an eligible entity that is awarded a supportive services grant under this part.


*Homeless* has the meaning given that term in 24 CFR 576.2.


*Notice of Fund Availability* means a Notice of Fund Availability published in the _Federal Register_ in accordance with § 62.40.


*Occupying permanent housing* means meeting any of the conditions set forth in § 62.11.


*Participant* means a very low-income veteran family occupying permanent housing who is receiving supportive services from a grantee.


*Permanent housing* means community-based housing without a designated length of stay where an individual or family has a lease in accord with state and Federal law that is renewable and terminable only for cause. Examples of permanent housing include, but are not limited to, a house or apartment with a month-to-month or annual lease term or home ownership.


*Private non-profit organization* means any of the following:


(1) An incorporated private institution or foundation that:


(i) Has no part of the net earnings that inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;


(ii) Has a governing board that is responsible for the operation of the supportive services provided under this part; and


(iii) Is approved by VA as to financial responsibility.


(2) A for-profit limited partnership, the sole general partner of which is an organization meeting the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this definition.


(3) A corporation wholly owned and controlled by an organization meeting the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this definition.


(4) A tribally designated housing entity (as defined in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103)).


*Rapid re-housing* means an intervention designed to help individuals and families quickly exit homelessness and return to permanent housing. Rapid re-housing assistance is offered without preconditions (such as employment, income, absence of criminal record, or sobriety) and the resources and services provided are typically tailored to the unique needs of the household. The three core components of rapid re-housing include housing identification, rent and move-in financial assistance, and rapid re-housing case management and services. While a rapid re-housing program must have all three core components available, it is not required that a single entity provide all three services nor that a household utilize them all.


*State* means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937.


*Subcontractor* means any third party contractor, of any tier, working directly for an eligible entity.


*Supportive services* means any of the following provided to address the needs of a participant:


(1) Outreach services as specified under § 62.30.


(2) Case management services as specified under § 62.31.


(3) Assisting participants in obtaining VA benefits as specified under § 62.32.


(4) Assisting participants in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits as specified under § 62.33.


(5) Other services as specified under § 62.34.


*Supportive services grant* means a grant awarded under this part.


*Supportive services grant agreement* means the agreement executed between VA and a grantee as specified under § 62.50.


*Suspension* means an action by VA that temporarily withdraws VA funding under a supportive services grant, pending corrective action by the grantee or pending a decision to terminate the supportive services grant by VA. Suspension of a supportive services grant is a separate action from suspension under VA regulations implementing Executive Orders 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.”


*VA* means the Department of Veterans Affairs.


*Very low-income veteran family* means a veteran family whose annual income, as determined in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609, does not exceed 50 percent of the median income for an area or community, as will be adjusted by VA based on family size and as may be adjusted and announced by VA in the Notice of Fund Availability based on residency within an area with unusually high or low construction costs, fair market rents (as determined under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f)), or family incomes. Unless VA announces otherwise in the Notice of Fund Availability, the median income for an area or community will be determined using the income limits most recently published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development for programs under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).


*Veteran* means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, regardless of length of service, and who was discharged or released therefrom. Veteran excludes a person who received a dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces or was discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces by reason of the sentence of a general court-martial. The length of service restrictions under 38 U.S.C. 5303A do not apply.


*Veteran family* means a veteran who is a single person or a family in which the head of household, or the spouse of the head of household, is a veteran.


*Withholding* means that payment of a supportive services grant will not be paid until such time as VA determines that the grantee provides sufficiently adequate documentation and/or actions to correct a deficiency for the supportive services grant. Costs for supportive services provided by grantees under the supportive services grant from the date of the withholding letter would be reimbursed only if the grantee is able to submit the documentation or actions that the deficiency has been corrected to the satisfaction of VA.



---

[N] [75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9610, Feb. 24, 2015; 82 FR 51160, Nov. 3, 2017]




