# § 25.6075-2   Returns; time for filing gift tax returns for gifts made after December 31, 1976, and before January 1, 1982.

(a) *Due date for filing quarterly gift tax returns.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a return required to be filed under section 6019 for the first, second, or third calendar quarter of any calendar year must be filed on or before the 15th day of the second month following the close of the calendar quarter in which the taxable gift was made.


(2) If a return is required to be filed under section 6019 for the fourth calendar quarter, then—


(i) For gifts made after December 31, 1976 and before January 1, 1979, the return must be filed on or before February 15th following the close of the fourth calendar quarter, or


(ii) For gifts made after December 31, 1978, and before January 1, 1982, the return must be filed on or before April 15th following the close of the fourth calendar quarter.


(b) *Special rule.* (1) If the total amount of taxable gifts (determined after the application of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, relating to split gifts) made by a person during a calendar quarter is $25,000 or less, the return required under section 6019 for that quarter must be filed on or before the date prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for filing the return for gifts made in the first subsequent calendar quarter (unless the first subsequent calendar quarter is the fourth calendar quarter in which case see paragraph (b)(2) of this section) in the calendar year in which the sum of—


(i) The taxable gifts made during such subsequent calendar quarter, plus


(ii) All other taxable gifts made in prior quarters of the calendar year for which no return has yet been required to be filed,


(2) If a return is not required to be filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, then—


(i) For gifts made after December 31, 1976 and before January 1, 1979, the return must be filed on or before February 15th following the close of the fourth calendar quarter, or


(ii) For gifts made after December 31, 1978, and before January 1, 1982, the return must be filed on or before April 15th following the close of the fourth calendar quarter.


(3) Under section 6075(b)(3), any extension of time granted a taxpayer for filing the return of income taxes imposed by Subtitle A for any taxable year which is a calendar year shall be treated as an extension of time granted the taxpayer for filing any return under section 6019 which is due (under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section) on or before April 15th following the close of the fourth calendar quarter. See also section 6081 and § 25.6081-1 for other rules relating to extensions of time for filing returns.


(4) See section 7503 and § 301.7503-1 for the due date of a return that falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. As to additions to the tax for failure to file the return within the prescribed time, see section 6651 and § 301.6651-1.


(c) *Effect of section 2513.* (1) In determining whether taxable gifts made during any calendar quarter exceed $25,000, and in determining whether taxable gifts made in the current calendar quarter and the preceding calendar quarters of the calendar year for which no return has yet been required to be filed exceed $25,000, the effect of section 2513 is not taken into account for any gifts made in the current or previous quarters for which a return is now being filed unless an irrevocable consent was made by either spouse on a return that was required to be filed prior to the due date of the current return. See § 25.2513-3 for the rules relating to when a consent becomes irrevocable.


(2) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(d) *Nonresident not citizens of the United States.* In the case of a donor who is a nonresident not a citizen of the United States, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be applied by substituting “$12,500” for “$25,000” each place it appears. For rules relating to whether certain residents of possessions are considered nonresidents not citizens of the United States, see section 2501(c) and § 25.2501-1(d).


(e) *Effective date.* This section is effective for gifts made after December 31, 1976, and before January 1, 1982.



---

[N] [T.D. 7757, 46 FR 6929, Jan. 22, 1981. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 7910, 48 FR 40375, Sept. 7, 1983]




