# § 721.11705   Methyl phenylethyl cyclopropanemethanol (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as methyl phenylethyl cyclopropanemethanol (PMN P-21-13) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) through (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), and (g)(1), (3), and (5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: eye irritation; skin sensitization. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(3), this substance may be: toxic to aquatic life. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* It is a significant new use to use the substance in consumer products unless the concentration of the substance is less than 1%.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4), where N=1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [88 FR 13701, Mar. 6, 2023]






