# ยง 1.411   Definitions.

As used in these procedures, the terms as defined in the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990, 16 U.S.C. 620 *et seq.* (Act) and in the regulations issued thereunder, shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition and except as may be provided otherwise in these procedures: 


(a) *Applicant* or *Sourcing area applicant* means a person who submits a sourcing area application pursuant to these rules, or a person who sourcing area is subject to formal review pursuant to 36 CFR 223.191(e).


(b) *Decision* means:


(1) The Judge's initial decision made in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 554, 556, 557, and 16 U.S.C. 620 *et seq.* and 36 CFR 223.190 and 223.191(e), which includes the Judge's findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis therefore on all material issues of fact, law or discretion, orders and rulings on proposed findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties; and


(2) The decision and order by the Judicial officer upon appeal of the Judge's decision.


(c) *Determination* is synonymous with *decision.*

(d) *Hearing* means that part of the proceeding which may be requested by a party of record, and which involves the submission of additional evidence before the Administrative Law Judge for the record in the proceeding.


(e) *Hearing Clerk* means the Office of the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250.


(f) *Judge* means any Administrative Law Judge Appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 and assigned to the proceeding involved.


(g) *Judicial Officer* means an official of the United States Department of Agriculture delegated authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, pursuant to the Act of April 4, 1940 (7 U.S.C. 450c-459g) and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. 1988 ed., appendix, p. 1280), to perform the function involved (7 CFR 235(a)), or the Secretary of Agriculture, if the authority so delegated is exercised by the Secretary.


(h) *Party of record* or *Party* is a party to the proceeding to determine approval or disapproval of a sourcing area application, including the proceeding for formal review of a sourcing area. The sourcing area applicant and persons who submit written comments on the sourcing area application at issue during the 30 calendar day comment period, including the Regional Forester, are the parties of record. For purposes of a formal review of a sourcing area, the holder of the sourcing area that is the subject of the review and persons who submit written comments on the sourcing area application at issue during the 30 calendar day comment period after institution of the formal review, including the Regional Forester, are the parties of record.


(i) *Sourcing Area Application* means the application by which a person applies for a sourcing area or the application by which a sourcing area holder applies for a formal review of a sourcing area.




