# ยง 21.156   Depredation order for depredating California scrub jays and Steller's jays in Washington and Oregon.

Landowners, sharecroppers, tenants, or their employees or agents actually engaged in the production of nut crops in Washington and Oregon may, without a permit, take California scrub jays (*Aphelocoma californica*) and Steller's jays (*Cyanocitta stelleri*) when found committing or about to commit serious depredations to nut crops on the premises owned or occupied by such persons: *Provided:*

(a) That California scrub jays and Steller's jays may only be taken pursuant to this section between August 1 and December 1 in any year, in the Washington counties of Clark, Cowlitz, and Lewis; and the Oregon counties of Benton, Clackamas, Lane, Linn, Marion, Multnomah, Polk, Washington, and Yamhill.


(b) That California scrub jays and Steller's jays taken pursuant to this section shall not be transported or sold or offered for sale except that, such transportation within the area, as may be necessary to bury or otherwise destroy the carcasses of such birds is permitted: *Provided,* That the Director of the State agricultural department, college, or other public institution may requisition such California scrub jays and Steller's jays killed as may be needed for scientific investigations.


(c) That such birds may be taken only by trapping or shooting and on areas where serious depredations are being or are about to be committed.


(d) That any person exercising any of the privileges granted by this section shall permit at all reasonable times, including during actual operations, any Federal or State game or deputy game agent, warden, protector, or other law enforcement officer free and unrestricted access over the premises on which such operations have been or are being conducted; and shall furnish promptly to such officer whatever information he may require, concerning said operations.


(e) That nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the killing of such migratory birds contrary to any State laws or regulations; and that none of the privileges granted under this section shall be exercised unless the person possesses whatever permit as may be required for such activities by the States of Washington and Oregon.


(f) That any person authorized by this section to act under this depredation order must provide an annual report of take during the calendar year for each species by January 31st of the following year. The report must include the number of birds taken for each species, method of take, month(s) in which they were taken, county(ies) and State(s) in which they were taken, purpose of take, and disposition. Submit annual reports to the Pacific Region Migratory Bird Permit Office in Portland, Oregon, at the address shown at 50 CFR 2.2.



---

[N] [39 FR 31326, Aug. 28, 1974, as amended at 84 FR 45924, Sept. 3, 2019. Redesignated at 87 FR 882, Jan. 7, 2022]




