# § 41.3   What definitions are needed?

As used in this part:


*Academic facilities* mean structures suitable for use as:


(1) Classrooms, laboratories, libraries, and related facilities necessary or appropriate for instruction of students;


(2) Research facilities;


(3) Facilities for administration of educational or research programs;


(4) Dormitories or student services buildings; or


(5) Maintenance, storage, support, or utility facilities essential to the operation of the foregoing facilities.


*Academic term* means a semester, trimester, or other such period (not less than six weeks in duration) into which a Tribal college or university normally subdivides its academic year, but does not include a summer term.


*Academic year* means a twelve month period established by a Tribal college or university as the annual period for the operation of the Tribal college's or university's education programs.


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.


*BIE* means the Bureau of Indian Education.


*College or university* means an institution of higher education that is formally controlled, formally sanctioned, or chartered by the governing body of an Indian Tribe or Tribes. To qualify under this definition, the college or university must:


(1) Be the only institution recognized by the Department for the Tribe, excluding Diné College; and


(2) If under the control, sanction, or charter of more than one Tribe, be the only institution recognized by the Department for at least one Tribe that currently has no other formally controlled, formally sanctioned, or chartered college or university.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Education.


*Eligible continuing education units (CEUs)* means non-degree credits that meet the criteria established by the International Association of Continuing Education and Training.


*Full-time* means registered for 12 or more credit hours for an academic term.


*Indian Student Count (ISC) or Indian Full-Time Equivalent (FTE)* means a number equal to the total number of Indian students enrolled at a Tribal college or university, determined according to the formula in § 41.5.


*Indian student* means a student who is a member of an Indian Tribe, or a biological child of a living or deceased member of an Indian Tribe. Documentation is required to verify eligibility as a biological child of a living or deceased member of an Indian Tribe, and may include birth certificate and marriage license; Tribal records of student's parent; Indian Health Service eligibility cards; other documentation necessary to authenticate a student as eligible to be counted as an *Indian student* under this definition.


*Indian Tribe* means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, rancheria, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, to be listed in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to 25 CFR 83.5(a) as recognized by and eligible to receive services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.


*Institution of higher education* means an institution as defined by section 1001(a) of Title 20 of the United States Code, except that clause (2) of such section is not applicable and the reference to Secretary in clause (5)(A) of such section will be deemed to refer to the Secretary of the Interior.


*National Indian organization* means an organization which the Secretary finds to be nationally based, represents a substantial Indian constituency and has expertise in the fields of Tribal colleges and universities, and Indian higher education.


*NCCA* means the Navajo Community College Act of 1978, as amended (25 U.S.C. 640a *et seq.*).


*Operating expenses of education programs* means the obligations and expenditures of a Tribal college or university for postsecondary education, except for obligations and expenditures for acquisition or construction of academic facilities. Permissible expenditures may include:


(1) Administration;


(2) Instruction;


(3) Maintenance and repair of facilities; and


(4) Acquisition and upgrade of equipment, technological equipment, and other physical resources.


*Part-time* means registered for less than 12 credit hours for an academic term.


*Satisfactory progress* means satisfactory progress toward a degree or certificate as defined by the Tribal college or university.


*Secretary,* unless otherwise designated, means the Secretary of the Interior, or his/her duly authorized representative.


*TCCUA* means the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (25 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*).


*You* or *your* means the Tribal college or university.




