# § 403.1   General policies and definitions.

(a) This regulation of the Export-Import Bank (the Bank) implements executive orders which govern the classification, declassification, and safeguarding of national security information and material of the United States. This regulation is based on Executive Order 12356, National Security Information, April 2, 1982 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp. p. 166) (hereafter referred to as the *Order*), Information Security Oversight Directive No. 1, June 25, 1982 (32 CFR part 2001) (hereafter referred to as the *Directive*), and National Security Decision Directive 84, “Safeguarding National Security Information,” signed by the President on March 11, 1983 (hereafter referred to as *NSDD 84*). Violation of the provisions of part 403 may result in the imposition of administrative penalties, and civil and criminal penalties under applicable law. Executive Order 12356 prescribes a uniform system for classifying, declassifying, and safeguarding national security information. It recognizes that it is essential that the public be informed concerning the activities of the Government, but that the interests of the United States and its citizens require that certain information concerning the national defense and foreign relations be protected against unauthorized disclosure. Information may not be classified under the Order unless its disclosure reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the national security.


(b) For the purposes of the Order, the Directive and these guidelines, the following terms shall have the meanings specified below:


(1) *Information* means any information or material, regardless of its physical form or characteristics, that is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States Government.


(2) *National security information* means information that has been determined pursuant to this Order or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.


(3) *Foreign government information* means: 


(i) Information provided by a foreign government or governments, an international organization of governments, or any element thereof with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the information, the source of the information, or both, are to be held in confidence; or 


(ii) Information produced by the United States pursuant to or as a result of a joint arrangement with a foreign government or governments or an international organization of governments, or any element thereof, requiring that the information, the arrangement, or both, are to be held in confidence.


(4) *National security* means the national defense or foreign relations of the United States.


(5) *Confidential source* means any individual or organization that has provided, or that may reasonably be expected to provide, information to the United States on matters pertaining to the national security with the expectation, expressed or implied, that the information or relationship, or both, be held in confidence.


(6) *Original classification* means an initial determination that information requires, in the interest of national security, protection against unauthorized disclosure, together with a classification designation signifying the level of protection required.




