# ยง 24.178   Amelioration.

(a) *General.* In producing natural wine from juice having a fixed acid level exceeding 5.0 grams per liter, the winemaker may adjust the fixed acid level by adding ameliorating material (water, sugar, or a combination of both) before, during and after fermentation. The fixed acid level of the juice is determined prior to fermentation and is calculated as tartaric acid for grapes, malic acid for apples, and citric acid for other fruit. Each 20 gallons of ameliorating material added to 1,000 gallons of juice or wine will reduce the fixed acid level of the juice or wine by 0.1 gram per liter (the fixed acid level of the juice or wine may not be less than 5.0 gram per liter after the addition of ameliorating material).


(b) *Limitations.* (1) Amelioration is permitted only at the bonded wine premises where the natural wine is produced.


(2) The ameliorating material added to juice or wine may not reduce the fixed acid level of the ameliorated juice or wine to less than 5.0 grams per liter.


(3) For all wine, except for wine described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the volume of ameliorating material added to juice or wine may not exceed 35 percent of the total volume of ameliorated juice or wine (calculated exclusive of pulp). Where the starting fixed acid level is or exceeds 7.69 grams per liter, a maximum of 538.4 gallons of ameliorating material may be added to each 1,000 gallons of wine or juice. 


(4) For wine produced from any fruit (excluding grapes) or berry with a natural fixed acid of 20 parts per thousand or more (before any correction of such fruit or berry), the volume of ameliorating material added to juice or wine may not exceed 60 percent of the total volume of ameliorated juice or wine (calculated exclusive of pulp). If the starting fixed acid level is or exceeds 12.5 grams per liter, a maximum of 1,500 gallons of ameliorating material may be added to each 1,000 gallons of wine or juice.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-403, 64 FR 50253, Sept. 16, 1999; T.D. ATF-458, 66 FR 37578, July 19, 2001]




