# ยง 36.4507   Refinancing of mortgage or other lien indebtedness.

(a) Loans may be made for the purpose of refinancing (38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(5)) an existing mortgage loan or other indebtedness secured by a lien of record on a dwelling or farm residence owned and occupied by an eligible veteran as the veteran's home, provided that:


(1) The amount of the loan does not exceed the sum due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness on such dwelling or farm residence, and also is not more than the reasonable value of the dwelling or farm residence, and 


(2) The loan is otherwise eligible. 


(b) A refinancing loan for an amount which exceeds the sum due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness (the excess proceeds to be paid to the veteran) may also be made, *Provided, That:*

(1) The loan is otherwise eligible, and 


(2) The issuance of a commitment to make any such loan for an amount which exceeds eighty (80) percent of the reasonable value of the veteran's dwelling or farm residence shall require, unless the Under Secretary for Benefits otherwise directs, the approval of the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service. 


(c) Nothing shall preclude making a loan pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(5) to an eligible veteran having home loan guaranty entitlement to refinance a loan previously guaranteed insured or made by the Secretary which is outstanding on the dwelling or farm residence owned and occupied or to be reoccupied after the completion of major alterations, repairs, or improvements to the property, by the veteran as the veteran's home.


(d) A refinancing loan may include contractual prepayment penalties, if any, due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness to be refinanced.


(e) Nothing in this section shall preclude the refinancing of the balance due for the purchase of land on which new construction is to be financed through the proceeds of the loan, or the refinancing of the balance due on an existing land sale contract relating to a veteran's dwelling or farm residence. 



---

[N] [35 FR 18872, Dec. 11, 1970, as amended at 46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981; 49 FR 42571, Oct. 23, 1984; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996] 




