# § 488.1210   General provisions.

(a) *Purpose of remedies.* The purpose of remedies is to ensure prompt compliance with program requirements in order to protect the health and safety of individuals under the care of a hospice program.


(b) *Basis for imposition of remedies.* When CMS chooses to apply one or more remedies specified in § 488.1220, the remedies are applied on the basis of noncompliance with one or more conditions of participation and may be based on failure to correct previous deficiency findings as evidenced by repeat condition-level deficiencies.


(c) *Number of remedies.* CMS may impose one or more remedies specified in § 488.1220 for each condition-level deficiency constituting noncompliance.


(d)* Plan of correction requirement.* Regardless of which remedy is applied, a non-compliant hospice program must submit a plan of correction for approval by CMS or the State Survey Agency.


(e) *Notification requirements*—(1)* Notice of intent.* CMS provides written notification to the hospice program of the intent to impose the remedy, the statutory basis for the remedy, the nature of the noncompliance, the proposed effective date of the sanction, and the appeal rights. For civil money penalties, the notice of intent would also include the amount being imposed.


(2) *Final notice.* With respect to civil money penalties, CMS provides a written final notice to the hospice program, as set forth in § 488.1245(e), once the administrative determination is final.


(3) *Date of enforcement action.* The notice periods specified in §§ 488.1225(b) and 488.1230(b) begin the day after the hospice receives the notice of intent.


(f) *Appeals.* (1) The hospice program may request a hearing on a determination of noncompliance leading to the imposition of a remedy, including termination of the provider agreement, under the provisions of part 498 of this chapter.


(2) A pending hearing does not delay the effective date of a remedy, including termination, against a hospice program. Remedies continue to be in effect regardless of the timing of any appeals proceedings.




