# § 210.3   Definitions.

As used in this part— 


*Administrative law judge* means the person appointed under section 3105 of title 5 of the United States Code who presides over the taking of evidence in an investigation under this part. If the Commission so orders or a section of this part so provides, an administrative law judge also may preside over stages of a related proceeding under this part. 


*Ancillary proceeding* has the same meaning as *related proceeding.*

*Commission investigative attorney* means a Commission attorney designated to engage in investigatory activities in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part. 


*Complainant* means a person who has filed a complaint with the Commission under this part, alleging a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. 


*Intervenor* means a person who has been granted leave by the Commission to intervene as a party to an investigation or a related proceeding under this part. 


*Investigation* means a formal Commission inquiry instituted to determine whether there is a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. An investigation is instituted upon publication of a notice in the _Federal Register._ The investigation entails postinstitution adjudication of the complaint. An investigation can also involve the processing of one or more of the following: A motion to amend the complaint and notice of investigation; a motion for temporary relief; a motion to designate “more complicated” the temporary relief stage of the investigation; an interlocutory appeal of an administrative law judge's decision on a particular matter; a motion for sanctions for abuse of process, abuse of discovery, or failure to make or cooperate in discovery, which if granted, would have an impact on the adjudication of the merits of the complaint; a petition for reconsideration of a final Commission determination; a motion for termination of the investigation in whole or part; and procedures undertaken in response to a judgment or judicial order issued in an appeal of a Commission determination or remedial order issued under section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. 


*Party* means each complainant, respondent, intervenor, or the Office of Unfair Import Investigations.


*Proposed intervenor* means any person who has filed a motion to intervene in an investigation or a related proceeding under this part. 


*Proposed respondent* means any person named in a complaint filed under this part as allegedly violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. 


*Related proceeding* means preinstitution proceedings, sanction proceedings (for the possible issuance of sanctions that would not have a bearing on the adjudication of the merits of a complaint or a motion under this part), bond forfeiture proceedings, proceedings to enforce, modify, or revoke a remedial or consent order, or advisory opinion proceedings. 


*Respondent* means any person named in a notice of investigation issued under this part as allegedly violating section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930.


*U.S. Customs Service* means U.S. Customs and Border Protection.



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67626, Dec. 30, 1994; 73 FR 38320, July 7, 2008; 76 FR 24363, May 2, 2011; 78 FR 23480, Apr. 19, 2013]




