# § 9.123   Mt. Veeder.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Mt. Veeder.”


(b) *Approved Maps.* The appropriate maps for determining the boundaries of the “Mt. Veeder” viticultural area are three U.S.G.S. Quadrangle (7.5 Minute Series) maps. They are titled:


(1) Napa, California (1951 (Photorevised (1980))


(2) Rutherford, California (1951 (Photorevised (1968))


(3) Sonoma, California (1951 (Photorevised (1980))


(c) *Boundaries.* (1) Beginning at unnamed peak, elevation 1,820, on the common boundary between Napa County and Sonoma County in section 23, Township 7 North, Range 6 West, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian on the Rutherford, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;


(2) Thence south along common boundary between Napa County and Sonoma County to unnamed peak, elevation 1,135 feet on the Sonoma, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;


(3) Thence continuing south along the ridge line approximately 
1/2 mile to unnamed peak, elevation 948 feet;


(4) Thence due east in a straight line approximately 
2/10 mile to the 400 foot contour;


(5) Thence following the 400 foot contour line north around Carneros Valley and then to the west of Congress Valley and Browns Valley on the Napa, Calif. U.S.G.S. map;


(6) Thence paralleling Redwood Road to its intersection with the line dividing Range 5 West and Range 4 West, east of the unnamed 837 foot peak;


(7) Thence north along the line dividing Range 5 West and Range 4 West approximately 
4/10 mile to the 400 foot contour;


(8) Thence briefly southeast, then northwest along the 400 foot contour to the point where that contour intersects the northern border of Section 10, Township 6 North, Range 5 West immediately adjacent to Dry Creek on the Rutherford Calif. U.S.G.S. map;


(9) Thence northwesterly along Dry Creek through Sections 3 and 4 of Township 6 North, Range 5 West, and Sections 32 and 31 of Township 7 North, Range 5 West, to the fork of Dry Creek near the center of Section 25 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West;


(10) Continuing along the northern fork of Dry Creek through Sections 25 and 24 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West, to the point at which the main channel of Dry Creek ends and divides into three tributaries;


(11) Thence following the middle tributary of Dry Creek through Sections 24 and 23 of Township 7 North, Range 6 West, to its source at the intersection with a trail indicated on the map;


(12) Thence following a straight line west approximately 
1/10 mile to the top of unnamed peak, elevation 1,820, the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-295, 55 FR 5844, Feb. 20, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-351, 58 FR 65126, Dec. 13, 1993]




