# § 5.1   Definitions.

Certain terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Aircraft* means any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed for navigation of or flight in the air.


*Auxiliary* means the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary established pursuant to the Auxiliary Act.


*Auxiliary Act* means the laws governing the Coast Guard Auxiliary, codified in chapters 23 and 25 of Title 14, United States Code (14 U.S.C. 3901-3913 and 4101-4104).


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard.


*Direct Law Enforcement* includes boarding a vessel for law enforcement purposes, carrying firearms or law enforcement equipment (handcuffs, pepper spray, etc.), investigating complaints of negligent operations, serving subpoenas, and covert operations. For more details see Chapter 4.E. of the Auxiliary Operations Policy Manual, COMDTINST M16798.3 (series).


*Facility* means a vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment accepted for use by the Coast Guard.


*Member* means any person who is a member of the Auxiliary.


*Motorboat* means any documented or numbered vessel propelled by machinery.


*Personal property of the Auxiliary* means a vessel, aircraft, radio station, motorized vehicle, trailer, or other equipment owned by, or under the administrative jurisdiction of, the Coast Guard Auxiliary or an Auxiliary unit, and that is used solely for Auxiliary purposes and in accordance with the Auxiliary Act.


*Radio station* means any equipment (including a building, recreational vehicle, trailer, or other motorized vehicle which houses such equipment) used for radio communication or direction finding.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating.


*Vessel* means any water craft, including non-displacement craft and seaplanes, used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water.


*Yacht* means either—


(1) Any documented or numbered vessel used exclusively for pleasure; or


(2) Any sailboat used exclusively for pleasure more than 16 feet in length measured end-to-end over the deck, excluding sheer.



---

[N] [USCG-1999-6712, 80 FR 3476, Jan. 23, 2015, as amended by USCG-2020-0304, 85 FR 58276, Sept. 18, 2020]




