# § 4.93   Action on exemption applications.

(a) An application for exemption that does not meet the eligibility requirements of § 4.30(b)(30)(iv) may be accepted, provided the application has been accompanied by a request for waiver under § 4.92(a)(1) and the waiver request has not been denied. Acceptance of an application that has been accompanied by a request for waiver under § 4.92(a)(1) does not constitute a ruling on the waiver request, unless expressly stated in the acceptance.


(b) The Commission will circulate a notice of application for exemption to interested agencies and Indian tribes at the time the applicant is notified that the application is accepted for filing. 


(c) In granting an exemption the Commission may prescribe terms or conditions in addition to those set forth in § 4.94, in order to: 


(1) Protect the quality or quantity of the related water supply for agricultural, municipal, or industrial consumption; 


(2) Otherwise protect life, health, or property; 


(3) Avoid or mitigate adverse environmental impact; or 


(4) Conserve, develop, or utilize in the public interest the water power resources of the region. 


(d) *Conversion to license application.* (1) If an application for exemption under this subpart is denied by the Commission, the applicant may convert the exemption application into an application for license for the hydroelectric project. 


(2) The applicant must provide the Commission with written notification, within 30 days after the date of issuance of the order denying exemption, that it intends to convert the exemption application into a license application. The applicant must submit to the Commission, no later than 90 days after the date of issuance of the order denying exemption, additional information that is necessary to conform the exemption application to the relevant regulations for a license application. 


(3) If all the information timely submitted is found sufficient, together with the application for exemption, to conform to the relevant regulations for a license application, the converted application will be considered *accepted for filing* as of the date that the exemption application was accepted for filing.



---

[N] [Order 76, 45 FR 28090, Apr. 28, 1980, as amended by Order 413, 50 FR 11687, Mar. 25, 1985; Order 533, 56 FR 23153, May 20, 1991; Order 2002, 68 FR 51121, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 800, 79 FR 59110, Oct. 1, 2014]




