# ยง 106.415   Amendment and audit.

(a) *Amendments.* (1) Amendments to a Facility Security Plan (FSP) that are approved by the cognizant District Commander may be initiated by:


(i) The OCS facility owner or operator; or


(ii) The cognizant District Commander, upon a determination that an amendment is needed to maintain the OCS facility's security. The cognizant District Commander will give the OCS facility owner or operator written notice and request that the OCS facility owner or operator propose amendments addressing any matters specified in the notice. The OCS facility owner or operator will have at least 60 days to submit its proposed amendments. Until amendments are approved, the OCS facility owner or operator shall ensure temporary security measures are implemented to the satisfaction of the cognizant District Commander.


(2) Proposed amendments must be sent to the cognizant District Commander. If initiated by the OCS facility owner or operator, the proposed amendment must be submitted at least 30 days before the amendment is to take effect unless the cognizant District Commander allows a shorter period. The cognizant District Commander will approve or disapprove the proposed amendment in accordance with ยง 106.410 of this subpart.


(3) Nothing in this section should be construed as limiting the OCS facility owner or operator from the timely implementation of such additional security measures not enumerated in the approved FSP as necessary to address exigent security situations. In such cases, the owner or operator must notify the cognizant District Commander by the most rapid means practicable as to the nature of the additional measures, the circumstances that prompted these additional measures, and the period of time these additional measures are expected to be in place.


(4) If the owner or operator has changed, the Facility Security Officer (FSO) must amend the Facility Security Plan (FSP) to include the name and contact information of the new OCS facility owner(s) or operator(s) and submit the affected portion of the FSP for review and approval in accordance with ยง 106.410 of this subpart.


(b) *Audits.* (1) The FSO must ensure an audit of the FSP is performed annually, beginning no later than one year from the initial date of approval and attach a letter to the FSP certifying that the FSP meets the applicable requirements of this part.


(2) If there is a change in ownership or operations of the OCS facility, or if there have been modifications to the OCS facility, the FSP must be audited including but not limited to physical structure, emergency response procedures, security measures, or operations.


(3) Auditing the FSP as a result of modifications to the OCS facility may be limited to those sections of the FSP affected by the OCS facility modifications.


(4) Unless impracticable due to the size and nature of the company or the OCS facility, personnel conducting internal audits of the security measures specified in the FSP or evaluating its implementation must:


(i) Have knowledge of methods of conducting audits and inspections, and control and monitoring techniques;


(ii) Not have regularly assigned security duties; and


(iii) Be independent of any security measures being audited.


(5) If the results of an audit require an amendment of either the Facility Security Assessment (FSA) or FSP, the FSO must submit, in accordance with ยง 106.410 of this subpart, the amendments to the cognizant District Commander for review and approval no later than 30 days after completion of the audit and a letter certifying that the amended FSP meets the applicable requirements of this part.



---

[N] [USCG-2003-14759, 68 FR 39345, July 1, 2003, as amended at 68 FR 60559, Oct. 22, 2003]




