# ยง 103.2   Definitions.

The following are definitions of terms as used in this part only.


*Bureau of Export Administration (BXA).* The Bureau of Export Administration of the United States Department of Commerce, including the Office of Export Administration and the Office of Export Enforcement.


*Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC or Convention).* The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, and its annexes opened for signature on January 13, 1993, and entered into force on April 29, 1997.


*CWCIA.* The Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act of 1998. (22 U.S.C. 6701 *et seq.*)


*CWCR.* The Chemical Weapons Convention Regulations promulgated by the Department of Commerce. (15 CFR parts 710 through 722.)


*Executive Director.* The Executive Director, Office of the Legal Adviser, U.S. Department of State.


*Facility agreement.* A written agreement or arrangement between a State Party to the Convention and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons relating to a specific facility subject to on-site verification pursuant to Articles IV, V, and VI of the Convention.


*Final decision.* A decision or order assessing a civil penalty, or otherwise disposing of or dismissing a case, which is not subject to further administrative review under this part, but which may be subject to collection proceedings or judicial review in an appropriate federal court as authorized by law.


*Host Team.* The U.S. Government team that accompanies the Inspection Team during a CWC inspection to which this part applies.


*Host Team Leader.* The head of the U.S. Government team that hosts and accompanies the Inspection Team during a CWC inspection to which this part applies.


*Inspection assistant.* An individual designated by the Technical Secretariat to assist inspectors in an inspection, such as medical, security and administrative personnel and interpreters.


*Inspection Team.* The group of inspectors and inspection assistants assigned by the Director-General of the OPCW's Technical Secretariat to conduct a particular inspection.


*Lead agency.* The executive department or agency responsible for implementation of the CWC declaration and inspection requirements for specified facilities. The lead agencies are the Department of Defense (DOD) for facilities owned and operated by DOD (including those operated by contractors to the agency), and those facilities leased to and operated by DOD (including those operated by contractors to the agency); the Department of Energy (DOE) for facilities owned and operated by DOE (including those operated by contractors to the agency), and those facilities leased to and operated by DOE (including those operated by contractors to the agency), including the National Laboratories and components of the nuclear weapons complex; and the Department of Commerce (DOC) for all facilities that are not owned and operated by or leased to and operated by DOD, DOE or other U.S. Government agencies. Other departments and agencies that have notified the United States National Authority of their decision to be excluded from the CWCR shall also have lead agency responsibilities for facilities that are owned or operated by (including those operated by contractors to the agency), or that are leased to or operated by, those other departments and agencies (including those operated by contractors to the agency).


*Office of Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions.* The office in the Bureau of Arms Control of the United States Department of State that includes the United States National Authority Coordinating Staff.


*Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).* The entity established by the Convention to achieve the object and purpose of the Convention, to ensure the implementation of its provisions, including those for international verification of compliance with it, and to provide a forum for consultation and cooperation among States Parties.


*Party.* The United States Department of State and any person named as a respondent under this part.


*Perimeter.* In case of a challenge inspection, the external boundary of the site, defined by either geographic coordinates or description on a map.


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, any State or any political subdivision thereof, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity located in the United States.


*Respondent.* Any person named as the subject of a letter of intent to charge, or a Notice of Violation and Assessment (NOVA) and proposed order.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of State.


*Technical Secretariat.* The Technical Secretariat of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons established by the Chemical Weapons Convention.


*United States National Authority.* The Department of State serving as the national focal point for effective liaison with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and States Parties to the Convention and implementing the provisions of the CWCIA in coordination with an interagency group designated by the President consisting of the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Energy, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the heads of agencies considered necessary or advisable by the President, or their designees. The Secretary of State is the Director of the United States National Authority.




