# § 721.10770   Fluoroalkyl sulfonamide derivatives (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as fluoroalkyl sulfonamide derivatives (PMN P-12-404, P-12-405, and P-12-406) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses for P-12-404 and P-12-406 are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g)(1) (The PMN substances may: Cause serious eye damage; and suspected of damaging fertility or the unborn child), and (g)(2) (When using these substances: Wear eye/face protection; avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray; and wear protective gloves). A significant new use of these substances is any manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of these substances without providing risk notification as follows under § 721.72(c):


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for these substances, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a SDS as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If these substances are not being manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a SDS before the substances are reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN substances from the employer, or who have received the PMN substances from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an SDS containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (q).


(3) The significant new uses for P-12-405 are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* (A) Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (e.g., enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (e.g., workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(*1*) NIOSH-certified power air-purifying respirator with a hood or helmet and with appropriate gas/vapor (acid gas, organic vapor, or substance specific) cartridges in combination with HEPA filters.


(*2*) NIOSH-certified continuous flow supplied-air respirator equipped with a loose fitting face piece, hood, or helmet.


(*3*) NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied-air respirator with a full face piece.


(B) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the section TSCA 5(e) consent order for these substances. The NCEL is 0.7 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average verified by actual monitoring data.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (g)(1) (The PMN substance may: Cause serious eye damage; and suspected of damaging fertility or the unborn child), and (g)(2) (When using this substance: Wear eye/face protection; avoid breathing dust/fume/gas/mist/vapors/spray; use respiratory protection, or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 0.70 mg/m
3; and wear protective gloves). A significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as follows under § 721.72(c):


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a SDS as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a SDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an SDS containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of these substances.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 63835, Oct. 27, 2014]




