# § 417.407   Hazard control implementation.

(a) *General.* A launch operator must establish and maintain the hazard controls identified by the ground safety analysis including:


(1) System hazard controls that satisfy § 417.409;


(2) Safety clear zones for hazardous operations that satisfy § 417.411;


(3) Hazard areas and controls for allowing public access that satisfy § 417.413;


(4) Hazard controls after launch or an attempt to launch that satisfy § 417.415; and


(5) Controls for propellant and explosive hazards that satisfy § 417.417.


(b) *Hazard control verification.* A launch operator must establish a hazard tracking process to ensure that each identified hazard has a verifiable hazard control. Verification status must remain “open” for an individual hazard control until the hazard control is verified to exist in a released drawing, report, procedure, or similar document.


(c) *Hazard control configuration control.* A launch operator must establish and maintain a configuration control process for safety critical hardware. Procedural steps to verify hazard controls, and their associated documentation, cannot be changed without coordination with the person designated in § 417.103(b)(2).


(d) *Inspections.* When a potential hazard exists, a launch operator must conduct periodic inspections of related hardware, software, and facilities. A launch operator must ensure qualified and certified personnel, as required by § 417.105, conduct the inspection. A launch operator must demonstrate that the time interval between inspections is sufficient to ensure satisfaction of this subpart. A launch operator must ensure safety devices and other hazard controls must remain in place for that hazard, and that safety devices and other hazard controls must remain in working order so that no unsafe conditions exist.


(e) *Procedures.* A launch operator must conduct each launch processing or post-launch operation involving a public hazard or a launch location hazard pursuant to written procedures that incorporate the hazard controls identified by a launch operator's ground safety analysis and as required by this subpart. The person designated in § 417.103(b)(2) must approve the procedures. A launch operator must maintain an “as-run” copy of each procedure. The “as-run” procedure copy must include changes, start and stop dates, and times that each procedure was performed and observations made during the operations.


(f) *Hazardous materials.* A launch operator must establish procedures for the receipt, storage, handling, use, and disposal of hazardous materials, including toxic substances and sources of ionizing radiation. A launch operator must establish procedures for responding to hazardous material emergencies and protecting the public that complies with the accident investigation plan as defined in § 417.111(h)(2). These procedures must include:


(1) Identification of each hazard and its effects;


(2) Actions to be taken in response to release of a hazardous material;


(3) Identification of protective gear and other safety equipment that must be available in order to respond to a release;


(4) Evacuation and rescue procedures;


(5) Chain of command; and


(6) Communication both on-site and off-site to surrounding communities and local authorities.


(g) *Toxic release hazard notifications and evacuations.* A launch operator must perform a toxic release hazard analysis for launch processing performed at the launch site that satisfies section I417.7 of this part. A launch operator must apply toxic plume modeling techniques that satisfy section I417.7 of this part and ensure that notifications and evacuations are accomplished to protect the public from potential toxic release.




