# § 60.451   Definitions.

(a) All terms used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act or in subpart A of this part.


*Applied coating solids* means the coating solids that adhere to the surface of the large appliance part being coated.


*Coating application station* means that portion of the large appliance surface coating operation where a prime coat or a top coat is applied to large appliance parts or products (e.g., dip tank, spray booth, or flow coating unit).


*Curing oven* means a device that uses heat to dry or cure the coating(s) applied to large appliance parts or products.


*Electrodeposition (EDP)* means a method of coating application in which the large appliance part or product is submerged in a tank filled with coating material suspended in water and an electrical potential is used to enhance deposition of the material on the part or product.


*Flashoff area* means the portion of a surface coating line between the coating application station and the curing oven.


*Large appliance part* means any organic surface-coated metal lid, door, casing, panel, or other interior or exterior metal part or accessory that is assembled to form a large appliance product. Parts subject to in-use temperatures in excess of 250 °F are not included in this definition. 


*Large appliance product* means any organic surface-coated metal range, oven, microwave oven, refrigerator, freezer, washer, dryer, dishwasher, water heater, or trash compactor manufactured for household, commercial, or recreational use.


*Large appliance surface coating line* means that portion of a large appliance assembly plant engaged in the application and curing of organic surface coatings on large appliance parts or products.


*Organic coating* means any coating used in a surface coating operation, including dilution solvents, from which VOC emissions occur during the application or the curing process. For the purpose of this regulation, powder coatings are not included in this definition.


*Powder coating* means any surface coating that is applied as a dry powder and is fused into a continuous coating film through the use of heat.


*Spray booth* means the structure housing automatic or manual spray application equipment where a coating is applied to large appliance parts or products.


*Surface coating operation* means the system on a large appliance surface coating line used to apply and dry or cure an organic coating on the surface of large appliance parts or products. The surface coating operation may be a prime coat or a topcoat operation and includes the coating application station(s), flashoff area, and curing oven.


*Transfer efficiency* means the ratio of the amount of coating solids deposited onto the surface of a large appliance part or product to the total amount of coating solids used.


*VOC content* means the proportion of a coating that is volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of coating solids.


*VOC emissions* means the mass of volatile organic compounds (VOC's), expressed as kilograms of VOC's per liter of applied coating solids, emitted from a surface coating operation.


(b) All symbols used in this subpart not defined below are given the meaning in the Act or subpart A of this part.


