# § 11.472   National officer endorsements as Barge Supervisor.

(a) To qualify for an endorsement as Barge Supervisor (BS), an applicant must—


(1) Provide evidence of one of the following:


(i) Three years of employment assigned to MODUs including at least 168 days of service as Driller, Assistant Driller, Toolpusher, Assistant Toolpusher, Mechanic, Electrician, Crane Operator, Subsea Specialist, Ballast Control Operator (BCO), or equivalent supervisory position on MODUs. At least 84 days of that service must have been as a BCO, or Barge Supervisor trainee.


(ii) A degree from a program in engineering or engineering technology that is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). The National Maritime Center will give consideration to accepting education credentials from programs having other than ABET accreditation. An applicant qualifying through a degree program must also have at least 168 days of service as Driller, Assistant Driller, Toolpusher, Assistant Toolpusher, Mechanic, Electrician, Crane Operator, Subsea Specialist, BCO, or equivalent supervisory position on MODUs. At least 84 days of that service must have been as a BCO, or Barge Supervisor trainee; and


(2) Provide evidence of one of the following:


(i) A certificate from a Coast Guard-approved stability course approved for Barge Supervisor;


(ii) A certificate from a Coast Guard-approved survival suit and survival craft training course; or


(iii) A certificate from a firefighting training course as required by § 11.201(h).


(b) An applicant for an endorsement as Barge Supervisor who holds an unlimited MMC endorsement as Master or Mate must satisfy the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and have at least 84 days of service as BCO or Barge Supervisor trainee.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93090, Nov. 25, 2024, as amended by USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102335, Dec. 17, 2024]






