# ยง 78.13   Scheduling orders and pre-hearing conferences.

(a) If a request for an evidentiary hearing is granted, the Presiding Officer will issue an order scheduling the following:


(1) The filing by each party of a narrative statement of position on each factual issue in controversy.


(2) The identification of any witness that a party expects to call and of any written testimony, documents, papers, exhibits, or other materials that a party expects to introduce into evidence. At the request of the Presiding Officer, the party shall include a brief narrative summary of any witness' expected testimony and of any such materials.


(3) The filing of written testimony, in accordance with ยง 78.14(b), and other evidence in support of a narrative statement.


(4) The filing of any motions by any party, including motions for the production of documentation, data, or other information material to the disputed facts to be addressed at the hearing.


(b) The Presiding Officer may, on motion or *sua sponte,* schedule one or more pre-hearing conferences on the record to address any of the following:


(1) Simplification, clarification, amplification, or limitation of the issues.


(2) Admissions and stipulations of facts and determinations of the genuineness of documents.


(3) Objections to the introduction into evidence at the hearing of any written testimony or other submissions proposed by a party; *provided* that at any time before the end of the hearing, any party may make, and the Presiding Officer may consider and rule upon, a motion to strike testimony or other evidence (other than evidence included in the administrative record (if any) under ยง 72.63 of this chapter) on the grounds of relevance, competency, or materiality.


(4) Taking official notice of any matters.


(5) Grouping of parties with substantially similar interests to eliminate redundant evidence, motions, objections, and briefs.


(6) Such other matters that may expedite the hearing or aid in the disposition of matters in dispute.


(c) The Presiding Officer will issue an order (which may be in the form of a transcript) reciting the actions taken at any pre-hearing conferences, setting the schedule for any hearing, and stating any areas of factual and legal agreement and disagreement and the methods and procedures to be used in developing any evidence.



---

[N] [58 FR 3760, Jan. 11, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 25339, May 12, 2005; 86 FR 23180, Apr. 30, 2021]




