# § 3282.407   Voluntary compliance with the notification and correction requirements under the Act.

A manufacturer that takes corrective action that complies with one of the following three alternatives to the requirement in § 3282.408 for preparing a plan will be deemed to have provided any notification required by § 3282.405:


(a) *Voluntary action—one home.* When a manufacturer has made a determination that only one manufactured home is involved, the manufacturer is not required to provide notification pursuant to § 3282.405 or to prepare or submit a plan if:


(1) The manufacturer has made a determination of defect; or


(2) The manufacturer has made a determination of serious defect or imminent safety hazard and corrects the home within the 20-day period. The manufacturer must maintain, in the plant where the manufactured home was manufactured, a complete record of the correction. The record must describe briefly the facts of the case and any known cause of the serious defect or imminent safety hazard, state what corrective actions were taken, and be maintained in the service records in a form that will allow the Secretary or an SAA to review all such corrections.


(b) *Voluntary action—multiple homes.* Regardless of whether a plan has been submitted under § 3282.408, the manufacturer may act prior to obtaining approval of the plan. Such action is subject to review and disapproval by the SAA of the state where the home was manufactured or by the Secretary, unless the manufacturer obtains the written agreement of the SAA or the Secretary that the corrective action is adequate. If such an agreement is obtained, the correction must be accepted as adequate by all SAAs and the Secretary, if the manufacturer makes the correction as agreed to and any imminent safety hazard or serious defect is eliminated.


(c) *Waiver.* (1) A manufacturer may obtain a waiver of the notification requirements in § 3282.405 and the plan requirements in § 3282.408 either from the SAA of the state of manufacture, when all of the manufactured homes that would be covered by the plan were manufactured in that state, or from the Secretary. As of the date of a request for a waiver, the notification and plan requirements are deferred pending timely submission of any additional documentation as the SAA or the Secretary may require and final resolution of the waiver request. If a waiver request is not granted, the plan required by § 3282.408 must be submitted within 5 days after the expiration of the time frame established in § 3282.408, if the manufacturer is notified that the request was not granted.


(2) The waiver may be approved if, not later than 20 days after making the determination that notification is required, the manufacturer presents evidence that it, in good faith, believes would show to the satisfaction of the SAA or the Secretary that:


(i) The manufacturer has identified all homes that would be covered by the plan in accordance with § 3282.408;


(ii) The manufacturer will correct, at its expense, all of the identified homes, either within 60 days of being informed that the request for waiver has been granted or within another time limit approved in the waiver;


(iii) The proposed repairs are adequate to remove the defect, serious defect, or imminent safety hazard that gave rise to the determination that correction is required; and


(3) The manufacturer must correct all affected manufactured homes within 60 days of being informed that the request for waiver has been granted or within the time limit approved in the waiver, as applicable. The manufacturer must record the known cause of the problem and the correction in the service records, in an approved form that will allow the Secretary or SAA to review the cause and correction.




