# ยง 172.205   Hazardous waste manifest.

(a) No person may offer, transport, transfer, or deliver a hazardous waste (waste) unless an EPA Form 8700-22 and 8700-22A (when necessary) hazardous waste manifest (manifest) is prepared in accordance with 40 CFR 262.20 and is signed, carried, and given as required of that person by this section.


(b) The shipper (generator) shall prepare the manifest in accordance with 40 CFR part 262.


(c) The original copy of the manifest must be dated by, and bear the handwritten signature of, the person representing:


(1) The shipper (generator) of the waste at the time it is offered for transportation, and


(2) The initial carrier accepting the waste for transportation.


(d) A copy of the manifest must be dated by, and bear the handwritten signature of the person representing:


(1) Each subsequent carrier accepting the waste for transportation, at the time of acceptance, and


(2) The designated facility receiving the waste, upon receipt.


(e) A copy of the manifest bearing all required dates and signatures must be:


(1) Given to a person representing each carrier accepting the waste for transportation,


(2) Carried during transportation in the same manner as required by this subchapter for shipping papers,


(3) Given to a person representing the designated facility receiving the waste,


(4) Returned to the shipper (generator) by the carrier that transported the waste from the United States to a foreign destination with a notation of the date of departure from the United States, and


(5) Retained by the shipper (generator) and by the initial and each subsequent carrier for three years from the date the waste was accepted by the initial carrier. Each retained copy must bear all required signatures and dates up to and including those entered by the next person who received the waste.


(f) *Transportation by rail.* Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the following requirements apply:


(1) When accepting hazardous waste from a non-rail transporter, the initial rail transporter must:


(i) Sign and date the manifest acknowledging acceptance of the hazardous waste;


(ii) Return a signed copy of the manifest to the non-rail transporter;


(iii) Forward at least three copies of the manifest to:


(A) The next non-rail transporter, if any;


(B) The designated facility, if the shipment is delivered to that facility by rail; or


(C) The last rail transporter designated to handle the waste in the United States; and


(iv) Retain one copy of the manifest and rail shipping paper in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.


(2) Rail transporters must ensure that a shipping paper containing all the information required on the manifest (excluding the EPA identification numbers, generator certification and signatures) and, for exports, an EPA Acknowledgment of Consent accompanies the hazardous waste at all times. Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign either the manifest or shipping paper.


(3) When delivering hazardous waste to the designated facility, a rail transporter must:


(i) Obtain the date of delivery and handwritten signature of the owner or operator of the designated facility on the manifest or the shipping paper (if the manifest has not been received by the facility); and


(ii) Retain a copy of the manifest or signed shipping paper in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.


(4) When delivering hazardous waste to a non-rail transporter, a rail transporter must:


(i) Obtain the date of delivery and the handwritten signature of the next non-rail transporter on the manifest; and


(ii) Retain a copy of the manifest in accordance with 40 CFR 263.22.


(5) Before accepting hazardous waste from a rail transporter, a non-rail transporter must sign and date the manifest and provide a copy to the rail transporter.


(g) The person delivering a hazardous waste to an initial rail carrier shall send a copy of the manifest, dated and signed by a representative of the rail carrier, to the person representing the designated facility.


(h) A hazardous waste manifest required by 40 CFR part 262, containing all of the information required by this subpart, may be used as the shipping paper required by this subpart.


(i) The shipping description for a hazardous waste must be modified as required by ยง 172.101(c)(9).


(j) Electronic manifests that are obtained, completed, and transmitted in accordance with 40 CFR262.20(a)(3), and used in accordance with 40 CFR 262.24 in lieu of EPA Forms 8700-22 and 8700-22A are the legal equivalent of paper manifest forms bearing handwritten signatures, and satisfy for all purposes any requirements in these regulations to obtain, complete, sign, provide, use, or retain a manifest. Electronic signatures in conformance with 40 CFR 262.25 are therefore acceptable in lieu of handwritten signatures required by paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section provided one printed copy of the electronic manifest bearing the electronic signature is provided to the initial transporter as required by 40 CFR 262.24(d). A copy of the electronic manifest would satisfy the 3-year retention requirement for maintaining a copy of the manifest.



---

[N] [Amdt. 172-58, 45 FR 34698, May 22, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 172-90, 49 FR 10510, Mar. 20, 1984; 49 FR 11184, Mar. 26, 1984; Amdt. 172-248, 61 FR 28675, June 5, 1996; 70 FR 34075, June 13, 2005; 83 FR 55806, Nov. 7, 2018]




