# § 1.860E-2   Tax on transfers of residual interests to certain organizations.

(a) *Transfers to disqualified organizations*—(1) *Payment of tax.* Any excise tax due under section 860E(e)(1) must be paid by the later of March 24, 1993, or April 15th of the year following the calendar year in which the residual interest is transferred to a disqualified organization. The Commissioner may prescribe rules for the manner and method of collecting the tax.


(2) *Transitory ownership.* For purposes of section 860E (e) and this section, a transfer of a residual interest to a disqualified organization in connection with the formation of a REMIC is disregarded if the disqualified organization has a binding contract to sell the interest and the sale occurs within 7 days of the startup day (as defined in section 860G(a)(9) and § 1.860G-2(k)).


(3) *Anticipated excess inclusions.* The anticipated excess inclusions are the excess inclusions that are expected to accrue in each calendar quarter (or portion thereof) following the transfer of the residual interest. The anticipated excess inclusions must be determined as of the date the residual interest is transferred and must be based on—


(i) Events that have occurred up to the time of the transfer;


(ii) The prepayment and reinvestment assumptions adopted under section 1272(a)(6), or that would have been adopted had the REMIC's regular interests been issued with original issue discount; and


(iii) Any required or permitted clean up calls, or required qualified liquidation provided for in the REMIC's organizational documents.


(4) *Present value computation.* The present value of the anticipated excess inclusions is determined by discounting the anticipated excess inclusions from the end of each remaining calendar quarter in which those excess inclusions are expected to accrue to the date the disqualified organization acquires the residual interest. The discount rate to be used for this present value computation is the applicable Federal rate (as specified in section 1274(d)(1)) that would apply to a debt instrument that was issued on the date the disqualified organization acquired the residual interest and whose term ended on the close of the last quarter in which excess inclusions were expected to accrue with respect to the residual interest.


(5) *Obligation of REMIC to furnish information.* A REMIC is not obligated to determine if its residual interests have been transferred to a disqualified organization. However, upon request of a person designated in section 860E(e)(3), the REMIC must furnish information sufficient to compute the present value of the anticipated excess inclusions. The information must be furnished to the requesting party and to the Internal Revenue Service within 60 days of the request. A reasonable fee charged to the requestor is not income derived from a prohibited transaction within the meaning of section 860F(a).


(6) *Agent.* For purposes of section 860E(e)(3), the term “agent” includes a broker (as defined in section 6045(c) and § 1.6045-1(a)(1)), nominee, or other middleman.


(7) *Relief from liability*—(i) *Transferee furnishes information under penalties of perjury.* For purposes of section 860E(e)(4), a transferee is treated as having furnished an affidavit if the transferee furnishes—


(A) A social security number, and states under penalties of perjury that the social security number is that of the transferee; or


(B) A statement under penalties of perjury that it is not a disqualified organization.


(ii) *Amount required to be paid.* The amount required to be paid under section 860E(e)(7)(B) is equal to the product of the highest rate specified in section 11(b)(1) for the taxable year in which the transfer described in section 860E(e)(1) occurs and the amount of excess inclusions that accrued and were allocable to the residual interest during the period that the disqualified organization held the interest.


(b) *Tax on pass-thru entities*—(1) *Tax on excess inclusions.* Any tax due under section 860E(e)(6) must be paid by the later of March 24, 1993, or by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the close of the taxable year of the pass-thru entity in which the disqualified person is a record holder. The Commissioner may prescribe rules for the manner and method of collecting the tax.


(2) *Record holder furnishes information under penalties of perjury.* For purposes of section 860E(e)(6)(D), a record holder is treated as having furnished an affidavit if the record holder furnishes—


(i) A social security number and states, under penalties of perjury, that the social security number is that of the record holder; or


(ii) A statement under penalties of perjury that it is not a disqualified organization.


(3) *Deductibility of tax.* Any tax imposed on a pass-thru entity pursuant to section 860E(e)(6)(A) is deductible against the gross amount of ordinary income of the pass-thru entity. For example, in the case of a REIT, the tax is deductible in determining real estate investment trust taxable income under section 857(b)(2).


(4) *Allocation of tax.* Dividends paid by a RIC or by a REIT are not preferential dividends within the meaning of section 562(c) solely because the tax expense incurred by the RIC or REIT under section 860E(e)(6) is allocated solely to the shares held by disqualified organizations.



---

[N] [T.D. 8458, 57 FR 61304, Dec. 24, 1992]




