# ยง 2635.105   Supplemental agency regulations.

In addition to the regulations set forth in this part, employees must comply with any supplemental agency regulations issued by their employing agencies under this section.


(a) An agency that wishes to supplement this part must prepare and submit to the Office of Government Ethics, for its concurrence and joint issuance, any agency regulations that supplement the regulations contained in this part. Supplemental agency regulations which the agency determines are necessary and appropriate, in view of its programs and operations, to fulfill the purposes of this part must be:


(1) In the form of a supplement to the regulations in this part; and


(2) In addition to the substantive provisions of this part.


(b) After concurrence and co-signature by the Office of Government Ethics, the agency must submit its supplemental agency regulations to the _Federal Register_ for publication and codification at the expense of the agency in this title. Supplemental agency regulations issued under this section are effective only after concurrence and co-signature by the Office of Government Ethics and publication in the _Federal Register_.


(c) This section applies to any supplemental agency regulations or amendments thereof issued under this part. It does not apply to:


(1) A handbook or other issuance intended merely as an explanation of the standards contained in this part or in supplemental agency regulations;


(2) An instruction or other issuance the purpose of which is to:


(i) Delegate to an agency designee authority to make any determination, give any approval or take any other action required or permitted by this part or by supplemental agency regulations; or


(ii) Establish internal agency procedures for documenting or processing any determination, approval or other action required or permitted by this part or by supplemental agency regulations, or for retaining any such documentation; or


(3) Regulations or instructions that an agency has authority, independent of this part, to issue, such as regulations implementing an agency's gift acceptance statute, protecting categories of nonpublic information, or establishing standards for use of Government vehicles.


(d) Employees of a State or local government or other organization who are serving on detail to an agency, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3371, *et seq.,* are subject to any requirements, in addition to those in this part, established by a supplemental agency regulation issued under this section to the extent that such regulation expressly provides.






