# ยง 64.2103   Retention of call attempt records.

(a) Except as described in ยง 64.2107, each covered provider shall record and retain information about each call attempt to a rural OCN from subscriber lines for which the covered provider makes the initial long-distance call path choice in a readily retrievable form for a period that includes the six most recent complete calendar months.


(b) Affiliated covered providers may record and retain the information required by this rule individually or in the aggregate.


(c) A call attempt that is returned by an intermediate provider to the covered provider and reassigned shall count as a single call attempt.


(d) Call attempts to toll-free numbers, as defined in ยง 52.101(f) of this chapter, are excluded from these requirements.


(e) IntraLATA toll calls carried entirely over the covered provider's network or handed off by the covered provider directly to the terminating local exchange carrier or directly to the tandem switch serving the terminating local exchange carrier's end office (terminating tandem), are excluded from these requirements.


(f) The information contained in each record shall include:


(1) The calling party number;


(2) The called party number;


(3) The date;


(4) The time;


(5) An indication whether the call attempt was handed off to an intermediate provider or not and, if so, which intermediate provider;


(6) The rural OCN associated with the called party number;


(7) An indication whether the call attempt was interstate or intrastate;


(8) An indication whether the call attempt was answered, which may take the form of an SS7 signaling cause code or SIP signaling message code associated with each call attempt; and


(9) An indication whether the call attempt was completed to the incumbent local exchange carrier but signaled as busy, ring no answer, or unassigned number. This indication may take the form of an SS7 signaling cause code or SIP signaling message code associated with each call attempt.


(g) The provisions of this section shall expire on September 15, 2020.



---

[N] [78 FR 76239, Dec. 17, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 73227, Dec. 10, 2014; 82 FR 11594, Mar. 4, 2015; 82 FR 19615, Apr. 28, 2017; 84 FR 25706, June 4, 2019]




