# ยง 886.331   Agreement to enter into housing assistance payments contract.

(a) *Execution of agreement.* At the sales closing and prior to the Owner's commencement of any rehabilitation under this subpart, HUD will enter into an Agreement with the Owner which contains the following: 


(1) A statement that the Owner agrees to rehabilitate the project unit(s) to make the unit(s) decent, safe, and sanitary in accordance with the work write-up, cost estimates, and this subpart.


(2) A date by which rehabilitation will have commenced and a deadline date by which the rehabilitated project unit(s) will be completed and ready for occupancy. The Agreement may provide for staged rehabilitation, occupancy, and payments under the contract. 


(3) The Contract Rent which will be paid to the Owner once rehabilitation is completed, the Contract is executed, and the unit(s) is/are occupied by an eligible family. 


(4) A date for final inspection of the unit(s) by HUD and the owner shall be specified. This date shall be as soon as possible after the deadline date specified pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(5) The term of the contract. 


(b) *Agreement part of sales contract.* The Agreement will be prepared by HUD and incorporated into the Contract of Sale and Purchase. The Agreement shall include all required information in paragraph (a) of this section and a statement specifying the Owner's responsibility for making relocation payments to Families temporarily displaced. 



---

[N] [44 FR 70365, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 58 FR 43722, Aug. 17, 1993]




