# § 63.423   Standards: Storage vessels.

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall equip each gasoline storage vessel according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) Equip each gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1) through (4) of this chapter, except for the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) through (ix) and (a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.


(2) Equip each gasoline external floating roof storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter if such storage vessel does not currently meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart shall equip each gasoline storage vessel according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) of this section and, if a floating roof is used, either paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, as applicable in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) Equip, maintain, and operate each gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 according to the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1) through (4) of this chapter, except for the requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(iv) through (ix) of this chapter. Alternatively, you may elect to equip, maintain, and operate each affected gasoline storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 according to the requirements in subpart WW of this part as specified in § 60.110b(e)(5) of this chapter.


(2) Equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating control system to maintain the vapor concentration within the storage vessel above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas. This standard may require additional controls beyond those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(2) shall be determined using the methods in § 63.425(j). A deviation of the LEL level is considered an inspection failure under § 60.113b(a)(2) of this chapter or § 63.1063(d)(2) and must be remedied as such. Any repairs made must be confirmed effective through re-monitoring of the LEL and meeting the level in this paragraph (b)(2) within the timeframes specified in § 60.113b(a)(2) or § 63.1063(e), as applicable.


(3) Equip, maintain, and operate each gasoline external floating roof storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 with fitting controls as specified in § 60.112b(a)(2)(ii) of this chapter.


(c) Each gasoline storage vessel at bulk gasoline terminals and pipeline breakout stations shall be in compliance with the requirements of this section as expeditiously as practicable, but no later than the dates provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For facilities that commenced construction on or before February 8, 1994, each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section no later than December 15, 1997. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (a) of this section no longer applies and each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section no later than May 8, 2027. If applicable, the fitting controls required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be installed the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or by May 8, 2034, whichever occurs first.


(2) For facilities that commenced construction after February 8, 1994, and on or before June 10, 2022, each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section upon startup. Beginning no later than May 8, 2027, paragraph (a) of this section no longer applies and each gasoline storage vessel shall meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section no later than May 8, 2027. If applicable, the fitting controls required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section must be installed the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or by May 8, 2034, whichever occurs first.


(3) For facilities that commenced construction after June 10, 2022, each owner or operator shall meet the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section upon startup or July 8, 2024, whichever is later.







---

[N] [89 FR 39360, May 8, 2024]










