# § 206.26   Change in payment option.

(a) *General.* The payment option may be changed as provided in this section.


(b) *Borrower request for payment plan change*—(1) *Adjustable Interest Rate HECMs.* (i) During the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, no payment plan change shall cause disbursements to exceed the Initial Disbursement Limit.


(ii) After the First 12-Month Disbursement Period, as long as the outstanding loan balance is less than the principal limit, a borrower may request a recalculation of the current payment option, a change from any payment option to another available payment option or a disbursement of any amount (not to exceed the difference between the principal limit and the sum of the outstanding loan balance and any set asides for repairs, servicing charges or property charges). A mortgage will continue to bear interest at an adjustable interest rate as agreed between the mortgagee and the borrower at loan origination. The mortgagee shall recalculate any future monthly payments in accordance with § 206.25.


(iii) *Fee for change in payment.* The mortgagee may charge a fee, not to exceed an amount determined by the Commissioner, whenever there is a payment plan change or whenever payments are recalculated.


(iv) *Limitations.* The Commissioner may, through notice, establish limitations on the frequency of payment plan changes, a minimum notice period that a borrower must provide in order to make a request under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, or other limitations on payment plan change requests by the borrower.


(2) *Fixed Interest Rate HECMs.* Borrowers may not request a change in payment option.


(c) *Change due to initial repairs.* When initial repairs after closing under § 206.47 are required using a Repair Set Aside, mortgagees shall comply with the following:


(1) *Adjustable Interest Rate HECMs.* (i) If repairs after closing under § 206.47 are completed without using all of the funds set aside for repairs, the mortgagee shall transfer the remaining amount to a line of credit, modified term, or modified tenure payment option and inform the borrower of the sum available to be drawn.


(ii) If repairs after closing under § 206.47 cannot be completed with the funds set aside for repairs, the mortgagee may advance additional funds to complete repairs from an existing line of credit. If a line of credit is not sufficient to make the advance or if no line of credit exists, future monthly disbursements shall be recalculated for use as a line of credit in accordance with § 206.25.


(iii) If repairs are not completed when required by the mortgage, the mortgagee shall stop monthly payments and the mortgage shall convert to the line of credit payment option. Until the repairs are completed, the mortgagee shall make no line of credit disbursements except as needed to pay for repairs required by the mortgage.


(2) *Fixed Interest Rate HECMs.* No unused set aside funds shall be made available to the borrower, except that a borrower may be reimbursed for the cost of repair materials (not including labor), in accordance with § 206.47, under conditions established by the Commissioner.




