# § 83.1   What terms are used in this part?

As used in this part:


*ALJ* means an administrative law judge in the Departmental Cases Hearings Division, Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), Department of the Interior, appointed under 5 U.S.C. 3105.


*Assistant Secretary* or *AS-IA* means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior, or that officer's authorized representative, but does not include representatives of the Office of Federal Acknowledgment.


*Autonomous* means independent of the control of any other Indian governing entity.


*Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.


*Continental United States* means the contiguous 48 states and Alaska.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior, including the Assistant Secretary and OFA.


*Documented petition* means the detailed arguments and supporting documentary evidence submitted by a petitioner claiming that it meets the Indian Entity Identification (§ 83.11(a)), Governing Document (§ 83.11(d)), Descent (§ 83.11(e)), Unique Membership (§ 83.11(f)), and Congressional Termination (§ 83.11(g)) Criteria and claiming that it:


(1) Demonstrates previous Federal acknowledgment under § 83.12(a) and meets the criteria in § 83.12(b); or


(2) Meets the Community (§ 83.11(b)) and Political Authority (§ 83.11(c)) Criteria.


*Federally recognized Indian tribe* means an entity listed on the Department of the Interior's list under the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, which the Secretary currently acknowledges as an Indian tribe and with which the United States maintains a government-to-government relationship.


*Historical* means before 1900.


*Indigenous* means native to the continental United States in that at least part of the petitioner's territory at the time of first sustained contact extended into what is now the continental United States.


*Member of a petitioner* means an individual who is recognized by the petitioner as meeting its membership criteria and who consents to being listed as a member of the petitioner.


*Office of Federal Acknowledgment* or *OFA* means the Office of Federal Acknowledgment within the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.


*Petitioner* means any entity that has submitted a documented petition to OFA requesting Federal acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian tribe.


*Previous Federal acknowledgment* means action by the Federal government clearly premised on identification of a tribal political entity and indicating clearly the recognition of a relationship between that entity and the United States.


*Roll* means a list exclusively of those individuals who have been determined by the tribe to meet the tribe's membership requirements as set forth in its governing document. In the absence of such a document, a roll means a list of those recognized as members by the tribe's governing body. In either case, those individuals on a roll must have affirmatively demonstrated consent to being listed as members.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior within the Department of the Interior or that officer's authorized representative.


*Tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community.




