# ยง 10.3   Suspension, amendment, revocation and waiver of rules.

(a) These rules may, from time to time, be suspended, amended or revoked in whole or in part. Notice of such action will be published in the _Federal Register._

(b) In the interest of expediting decision or to prevent undue hardship on any party or for other good cause the Commission may order the adoption of expedited procedures and may waive any rule in subparts A through H of this part in a particular case and may order proceedings in accordance with its direction upon a determination that no party will be prejudiced and that the ends of justice will be served. Reasonable notice shall be given to all parties of any action taken pursuant to this provision.


(c) The Presiding Officer, to expedite decision or to prevent undue hardship on any party, may waive any rule in subparts A through G of this part when neither party is prejudiced thereby. Reasonable notice shall be given to all parties of any action taken pursuant to this provision.


(d) Notwithstanding any provision of this part, the Commission may in any proceeding commenced pursuant to section 6(c) of the Act require a respondent to show cause why an order should not be entered against the respondent and may specify a day and place for the hearing not less than three days after service upon the respondent of the Commission's complaint and notice of hearing in such proceeding.



---

[N] [41 FR 2511, Jan. 16, 1976, as amended at 44 FR 61327, Oct. 25, 1979; 59 FR 5701, Feb. 8, 1994] 




