# ยง 192.375   Allocation of oversubscribed conversion shares.

(a) *Eligible account holders.* If a savings association's conversion shares are oversubscribed by its eligible account holders, the savings association must allocate shares among the eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.


(b) *Supplemental eligible account holders.* If a savings association's conversion shares are oversubscribed by its supplemental eligible account holders, the savings association must allocate shares among the supplemental eligible account holders so that each, to the extent possible, may purchase 100 shares.


(c) *Eligible and supplemental eligible account holders.* If a person is an eligible account holder and a supplemental eligible account holder, the savings association must include the eligible account holder's allocation in determining the number of conversion shares that the savings association may allocate to the person as a supplemental eligible account holder.


(d) *Additional allocations.* For conversion shares that the savings association does not allocate under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the savings association must allocate the shares among the eligible or supplemental eligible account holders equitably, based on the amounts of qualifying deposits. The savings association must describe this method of allocation in its plan of conversion.


(e) *Oversubscription.* If shares remain after the savings association has allocated shares as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, and if the savings association's voting members oversubscribe, the savings association must allocate its conversion shares among those members equitably. The savings association must describe the method of allocation in its plan of conversion.




