# § 1.904(f)-5   Special rules for recapture of overall foreign losses of a domestic trust.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in this section, the rules contained in §§ 1.904(f)-1, 1.904(f)-2, 1.904(f)-3, 1.904(f)-4, and 1.904(f)-6 apply to domestic trusts.


(b) *Recapture of trust's overall foreign loss.* In taxable years in which a trust has foreign source taxable income subject to a separate limitation in which the trust has a balance in its overall foreign loss account, the balance in the trust's overall foreign loss account shall be recaptured as follows:


(1) *Trust accumulates income.* If the trust accumulates all of its foreign source taxable income subject to the same limitation as the loss that created the balance in the overall foreign loss account, its overall foreign loss shall be recaptured out of such income in accordance with §§ 1.904(f)-1, 1.904(f)-2, 1.904(f)-3, 1.904(f)-4, and 1.904(f)-6.


(2) *Trust distributes income.* If the trust distributes all of its foreign source taxable income subject to the same limitation as the loss that created the overall foreign loss account, the amount of the overall foreign loss that would be subject to recapture by the trust under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be allocated to the beneficiaries in proportion to the amount of such income which is distributed to each beneficiary in that year.


(3) *Trust accumulates and distributes income.* If the trust accumulates part of its foreign source taxable income subject to the same limitation as the loss that created the overall foreign loss account and distributes part of such income, the portion of the overall foreign loss that would be subject to recapture by the trust under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the distributed income were accumulated shall be allocated to the beneficiaries receiving income distributions. The amount of overall foreign loss to be allocated to such beneficiaries shall be the same portion of the total amount of such overall foreign loss that would be recaptured as the amount of such income which is distributed to each beneficiary bears to the total amount of such income of the trust for such year. That portion of the overall foreign loss subject to recapture in such year that is not allocated to the beneficiaries in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3) shall be recaptured by the trust in accordance with paragraph (b)(1).


(c) *Amounts allocated to beneficiaries.* Amounts of a trust's overall foreign loss allocated to any beneficiary in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section shall be added to the beneficiary's applicable overall foreign loss account and treated as an overall foreign loss of the beneficiary incurred in the taxable year preceding the year of such allocation. Such amounts shall be recaptured in accordance with §§ 1.904(f)-1, 1.904(f)-2, 1.904(f)-3, 1.904(f)-4, and 1.904(f)-6 out of foreign source taxable income distributed by the trust which is subject to the same separate limitation.


(d) *Section 904(f)(3) dispositions to which § 1.904(f)-2(d)(4)(i) is applicable.* Foreign source taxable income recognized by a trust under § 1.904(f)-2(d)(4) on a disposition of property used in a trade or business outside the United States shall be deemed to be accumulated by the trust. All such income shall be used to recapture the trust's overall foreign loss in accordance with § 1.904(f)-2(d)(4).


(e) *Illustrations.* The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 8153, 52 FR 32002, Aug. 25, 1987; 52 FR 43434, Nov. 12, 1987]




