# § 48.4082-5   Diesel fuel and kerosene; Alaska.

(a) *Application.* This section applies to diesel fuel or kerosene removed, entered, or sold in Alaska for ultimate sale or use in an exempt area of Alaska.


(b) *Definitions.*

*Exempt area of Alaska* means the area of Alaska in which the sulfur content requirements for diesel fuel (see section 211(i) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(i))) do not apply because the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency has granted an exemption under section 211(i)(4) of that Act.


*Nontaxable use* means a use described in section 4082(b).


*Qualified dealer* means any person that holds a qualified dealer license from the state of Alaska or has been registered by the district director as a qualified retailer. The district director will register a person as a qualified retailer only if the district director—


(1) Determines that the person, in the course of its trade or business, regularly sells diesel fuel or kerosene for use by its buyer in a nontaxable use; and


(2) Is satisfied with the filing, deposit, payment, and claim history for all federal taxes of the person and any related person.


(c) *Tax-free removals and entries.* Notwithstanding § 48.4082-1, tax is not imposed by section 4081 on the removal or entry of any diesel fuel or kerosene in an exempt area of Alaska if—


(1) The person that would be liable for tax under § 48.4081-2 or 48.4081-3 is a taxable fuel registrant and satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section;


(2) In the case of a removal from a terminal, the terminal is an approved terminal; and


(3) The owner of the diesel fuel or kerosene immediately after the removal or entry holds the fuel for its own use in a nontaxable use or is a qualified dealer.


(d) *Sales after removals and entries*—(1) *In general.* Paragraph (c) of this section does not apply with respect to diesel fuel or kerosene that is subsequently sold by a qualified dealer unless—


(i) The fuel is sold in an exempt area of Alaska;


(ii) The buyer purchases the fuel for its own use in a nontaxable use or is a qualified dealer; and


(iii) The seller satisfies the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) *Tax imposed at time of sale; liability for tax.* Notwithstanding §§ 48.4081-2 and 48.4081-3, in any case in which paragraph (c) of this section does not apply with respect to diesel fuel or kerosene because of a subsequent sale by a qualified dealer, the tax with respect to that fuel is imposed at the time of the subsequent sale and the qualified dealer is liable for the tax.


(3) *Rate of tax.* For the rate of tax, see section 4081.


(e) *Evidence of tax-free transactions.* The requirements of section 4082(c)(2) (relating to certification) and this paragraph (e) are satisfied if the person otherwise liable for tax is able to show the district director satisfactory evidence of the exempt nature of the transaction and has no reason to believe that the evidence is false. Satisfactory evidence may include copies of qualified dealer licenses or exemption certificates obtained for state tax purposes.


(f) *Registration.* With respect to each person that has been registered as a qualified retailer by the district director, the rules of § 48.4101-1(g), (h), and (i) apply.


(g) *Cross reference.* For the tax on previously untaxed diesel fuel or kerosene that is used for a taxable purpose, see § 48.4082-4.


(h) *Effective date.* This section is applicable with respect to diesel fuel removed or entered after December 31, 1996, and with respect to kerosene removed or entered after June 30, 1998. A person registered by the district director as a qualified retailer before April 2, 1998 may be treated, to the extent the district director determines appropriate, as a qualified dealer for the period before that date.



---

[N] [T.D. 8693, 61 FR 66216, Dec. 17, 1996. Redesignated and amended by T.D. 8748, 63 FR 25, Jan. 2, 1998; T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17157, Mar. 31, 2000] 




