# ยง 403.746   Condition of participation: Utilization review.

The RNHCI must have in effect a written utilization review plan to assess the necessity of services furnished. The plan must provide that records be maintained of all meetings, decisions, and actions by the utilization review committee.


(a) *Standard: Utilization review plan.* The utilization review plan must contain written procedures for evaluating the following:


(1) Admissions.


(2) Duration of care.


(3) Continuing care of an extended duration.


(4) Items and services furnished.


(b) *Standard: Utilization review committee.* The committee is responsible for evaluating each admission and ensuring that the admission is necessary and appropriate. The utilization review plan must be carried out by the utilization review committee, consisting of the governing body, administrator or other individual responsible for the overall administration of the RNHCI, the supervisor of nursing staff, and other staff as appropriate.


(c) *Standard: Utilization review committee role in RNHCI home services.* In addition to the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the utilization review committee is responsible for:


(1) The admission, and at least every 30 days, the continued care review of each patient in the RHNCI home services program.


(2) Oversight and monitoring of the home services program, including the purchase and utilization of designated durable medical equipment items for beneficiaries in the program.



---

[N] [64 FR 67047, Nov. 30, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 66419, Nov. 15, 2004]




