# § 305.13   Layout, format, and placement of labels for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, freezers, dishwashers, clothes washers, water heaters, room air conditioners, portable air conditioners, and pool heaters.

(a) *Coverage.* The requirements of this section apply to labels for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, freezers, dishwashers, clothes washers, water heaters, room air conditioners, and pool heaters.


(b) *Layout.* Energy labels shall use one size, similar colors, and typefaces with consistent positioning of headline, copy, and charts to maintain uniformity for immediate consumer recognition and readability. Trim size dimensions for the labels shall be as follows: Width must be between 5
1/4 inches and 5
1/2 inches (13.34 cm. and 13.97 cm.); length must be between 7
3/8 inches (18.73 cm.) and 7
5/8 (19.37 cm.). Copy is to be set between 27 picas and 29 picas and copy page should be centered (right to left and top to bottom). Depth is variable but should follow closely the prototype and sample labels appearing at the end of this part illustrating the basic layout. All positioning, spacing, type sizes, and line widths should be similar to and consistent with the prototype and sample labels in appendix L to this part.


(c) *Type style and setting.* The Arial series typeface or equivalent shall be used exclusively on the label. Specific sizes and faces to be used are indicated on the prototype labels. No hyphenation should be used in setting headline or copy text. Positioning and spacing should follow the prototypes closely. Generally, text must be set flush left with two points leading except where otherwise indicated. See the prototype labels for specific directions.


(d) *Colors.* Except as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the basic colors of all labels covered by this section shall be process yellow or equivalent and process black. The label shall be printed full bleed process yellow. All type and graphics shall be print process black.


(e) *Label types.* Except as indicated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the labels must be affixed to the product in the form of an adhesive label for any product covered by this section, or in the form of a hang tag for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, freezers, dishwashers, and clothes washers, as follows:


(1) *Adhesive labels.* All adhesive labels should be applied so they can be easily removed without the use of tools or liquids, other than water, but should be applied with an adhesive with an adhesion capacity sufficient to prevent their dislodgment during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer or consumer. The paper stock for pressure-sensitive or other adhesive labels shall have a basic weight of not less than 58 pounds per 500 sheets (25″ x 38″) or equivalent, exclusive of the release liner and adhesive. A minimum peel adhesion capacity for the adhesive of 12 ounces per square inch is suggested, but not required if the adhesive can otherwise meet the above standard. In lieu of a label with adhesive backing, manufacturers may adhere the label with adhesive tape, provided the tape is affixed along the entire top and bottom of the label.


(2) *Hang tags.* Labels may be affixed to the product interior in the form of a hang tag using cable ties or double strings connected through reinforced punch holes, or with attachment and label material of equivalent or greater strength and durability. If paper stock is used for hang tags, it shall have a basic weight of not less than 110 pounds per 500 sheets (25
1/2″ x 30
1/2″ index). When materials are used to attach the hang tags to appliance products, the materials shall be of sufficient strength to insure that if gradual pressure is applied to the hang tag by pulling it away from where it is affixed to the product, the hang tag will tear before the material used to affix the hang tag to the product breaks.


(3) *Package labels for certain products.* Labels for electric instantaneous water heaters shall be printed on or affixed to the product's packaging in a conspicuous location. Labels for room air conditioners produced on or after October 1, 2019 and portable air conditioners, shall be printed on or affixed to the principal display panel of the product's packaging. The labels for electric instantaneous water heaters, room air conditioners, and portable air conditioners shall be black type and graphics on a process yellow or other neutral contrasting background.


(f) *Placement*—(1) *Adhesive labels.* Manufacturers shall affix adhesive labels to the covered products in such a position that it is easily read by a consumer examining the product. The label should be generally located on the upper-right-front corner of the product's front exterior. However, some other prominent location may be used as long as the label will not become dislodged during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer or consumer. The top of the label should not exceed 74 inches from the base of taller products. The label can be displayed in the form of a flap tag adhered to the top of the appliance and bent (folded at 90°) to hang over the front, as long as this can be done with assurance that it will be readily visible.


(2) *Hang tags.* A hang tag shall be affixed to the interior of the product in such a position that it can be easily read by a consumer examining the product. A hang tag can be affixed in any position that meets this requirement as long as the label will not become dislodged during normal handling throughout the chain of distribution to the retailer or consumer. Hang tags may only be affixed in refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers, freezers, dishwashers, and clothes washers.



---

[N] [84 FR 58032, Oct. 30, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 9282, Feb. 12, 2021]






