# ยง 117.1059   Snohomish River, Steamboat Slough, and Ebey Slough.

(a) Drawtenders of bridges listed in this section shall acknowledge sound signals as follows:


(1) When draw can be opened immediately, two prolonged blasts followed by one short blast or three loud and distinct strokes of a bell. 


(2) When draw cannot be opened immediately, or when it is open and must be closed promptly, two prolonged blasts or two loud and distinct strokes of a bell. This signal may also be used by a vessel to countermand its call signal.


(b) When fog prevails by day or by night, the drawtender of each bridge listed in this section, after giving the acknowledging signal to open, shall toll a bell continuously during the approach and passage of vessels.


(c) The draws of the twin, SR 529, highway bridges across the Snohomish River, mile 3.6, at Everett shall open on signal if notice is provided at least one hour in advance. Notice for openings shall be given by marine radio, telephone or other means to the drawtender at the twin, SR 529, Highway Bridges across the Snohomish River, mile 3.6. One signal opens both draws. During freshets, a drawtender shall be in constant attendance, and the draws shall open on signal when so ordered by the District Commander.


(d) The draw of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge across the Snohomish River, mile 15.5, at Snohomish, need not be opened for the passage of vessels.


(e) The draw of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad bridge across Steamboat Slough, mile 1.0, near Marysville, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given. The opening signal is one prolonged blast followed by one short blast and one prolonged blast.


(f) The draws of the twin SR 529, highway bridges across Steamboat Slough, miles 1.1 and 1.2, near Marysville, shall open on signal if notice is provided at least four hours in advance. Notice for openings shall be given by marine radio or telephone to the drawtender at the twin, SR 529, Highway Bridges across the Snohomish River, mile 3.6. One signal opens both draws. During freshets, a drawtender shall be in constant attendance, and the draws shall open on signal when so ordered by the District Commander.


(g) The draw of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad Bridge across Ebey Slough, mile 1.5, near Marysville, WA, shall open on signal if at least four hours notice is given. The opening signal is one prolonged blast followed by one short blast. During freshets, a draw tender shall be in constant attendance, and the draw shall open on signal when so ordered by the District Commander.



---

[N] [CGD 82-025, 49 FR 17452, Apr. 24, 1984, as amended by CGD13 84-13, 49 FR 35628, Sept. 11, 1984; CGD13 85-10, 50 FR 25961, June 24, 1985; USCG-2018-0443, 83 FR 30039, June 27, 2018; USCG-2018-0128, 83 FR 65301, Dec. 20, 2018] 




