# ยง 22.15   Answer to the complaint.

(a) *General.* Where respondent: Contests any material fact upon which the complaint is based; contends that the proposed penalty, compliance or corrective action order, or Permit Action, as the case may be, is inappropriate; or contends that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law, it shall file an original and one copy of a written answer to the complaint with the Regional Hearing Clerk and shall serve copies of the answer on all other parties. Any such answer to the complaint must be filed with the Regional Hearing Clerk within 30 days after service of the complaint.


(b) *Contents of the answer.* The answer shall clearly and directly admit, deny or explain each of the factual allegations contained in the complaint with regard to which respondent has any knowledge. Where respondent has no knowledge of a particular factual allegation and so states, the allegation is deemed denied. The answer shall also state: The circumstances or arguments which are alleged to constitute the grounds of any defense; the facts which respondent disputes; the basis for opposing any proposed relief; and whether a hearing is requested.


(c) *Request for a hearing.* A hearing upon the issues raised by the complaint and answer may be held if requested by respondent in its answer. If the respondent does not request a hearing, the Presiding Officer may hold a hearing if issues appropriate for adjudication are raised in the answer.


(d) *Failure to admit, deny, or explain.* Failure of respondent to admit, deny, or explain any material factual allegation contained in the complaint constitutes an admission of the allegation.


(e) *Amendment of the answer.* The respondent may amend the answer to the complaint upon motion granted by the Presiding Officer.




