# § 1036.115   Other requirements.

Engines that are required to meet the emission standards of this part must meet the following requirements, except as noted elsewhere in this part:


(a) *Crankcase emissions.* Engines may not discharge crankcase emissions into the ambient atmosphere throughout the useful life, other than those that are routed to the exhaust upstream of exhaust aftertreatment during all operation, except as follow:


(1) Engines equipped with turbochargers, pumps, blowers, or superchargers for air induction may discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere if the emissions are added to the exhaust emissions (either physically or mathematically) during all emission testing.


(2) If you take advantage of this exception, you must manufacture the engines so that all crankcase emissions can be routed into the applicable sampling systems specified in 40 CFR part 1065. You must also account for deterioration in crankcase emissions when determining exhaust deterioration factors as described in § 1036.240(c)(5).


(b) *Fuel mapping.* You must perform fuel mapping for your engine as described in § 1036.505(b).


(c) *Evaporative and refueling emissions.* You must design and produce your engines to comply with evaporative and refueling emission standards as follows:


(1) For complete heavy-duty vehicles you produce, you must certify the vehicles to emission standards as specified in 40 CFR 1037.103.


(2) For incomplete heavy-duty vehicles, and for engines used in vehicles you do not produce, you do not need to certify your engines to evaporative and refueling emission standards or otherwise meet those standards. However, vehicle manufacturers certifying their vehicles with your engines may depend on you to produce your engines according to their specifications. Also, your engines must meet applicable exhaust emission standards in the installed configuration.


(d) *Torque broadcasting.* Electronically controlled engines must broadcast their speed and output shaft torque (in newton-meters). Engines may alternatively broadcast a surrogate value for determining torque. Engines must broadcast engine parameters such that they can be read with a remote device or broadcast them directly to their controller area networks.


(e) *EPA access to broadcast information.* If we request it, you must provide us any hardware, tools, and information we would need to readily read, interpret, and record all information broadcast by an engine's on-board computers and electronic control modules. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. We will not ask for hardware or tools if they are readily available commercially.


(f) *Adjustable parameters.* Engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range.


(1) We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, selective enforcement auditing, or in-use testing.


(2) General provisions apply for adjustable parameters as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.


(3) DEF supply and DEF quality are adjustable parameters. The physically adjustable range includes any amount of DEF for which the engine's diagnostic system does not trigger inducement provisions under § 1036.111.


(g) *Prohibited controls.* (1) *General provisions.* You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, this would apply if the engine emits a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.


(2) *Vanadium sublimation in SCR catalysts.* For engines equipped with vanadium-based SCR catalysts, you must design the engine and its emission controls to prevent vanadium sublimation and protect the catalyst from high temperatures. We will evaluate your engine design based on the following information that you must include in your application for certification:


(i) Identify the threshold temperature for vanadium sublimation for your specified SCR catalyst formulation as described in 40 CFR 1065.1113 through 1065.1121.


(ii) Describe how you designed your engine to prevent catalyst inlet temperatures from exceeding the temperature you identify in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section, including consideration of engine wear through the useful life. Also describe your design for catalyst protection in case catalyst temperatures exceed the specified temperature. In your description, include how you considered elevated catalyst temperature resulting from sustained high-load engine operation, catalyst exotherms, particulate filter regeneration, and component failure resulting in unburned fuel in the exhaust stream.


(h) *Defeat devices.* You may not equip your engines with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission control device (AECD) that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that may reasonably be expected in normal operation and use. However, an AECD is not a defeat device if you identify it in your application for certification and any of the following is true:


(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable procedure for duty-cycle testing as described in subpart F of this part.


(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent engine (or vehicle) damage or accidents. Preventing engine damage includes preventing damage to aftertreatment or other emission-related components.


(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.


(4) The AECD applies only for engines that will be installed in *emergency vehicles,* and the need is justified in terms of preventing the engine from losing speed, torque, or power due abnormal conditions of the emission control system, or in terms of preventing such abnormal conditions from occurring, during operation related to emergency response. Examples of such abnormal conditions may include excessive exhaust backpressure from an overloaded particulate trap, and running out of diesel exhaust fluid for engines that rely on urea-based selective catalytic reduction. The emission standards do not apply when any AECDs approved under this paragraph (h)(4) are active.


(i) *DEF tanks.* Diesel exhaust fluid tanks must be sized to require refilling no more frequently than the vehicle operator will need to refill the fuel tank, even for worst-case assumptions related to fuel efficiency and refueling volumes.


(j) *Special provisions for spark-ignition engines.* The following provisions apply for spark-ignition engines that control air-fuel ratios at or near stoichiometry starting with model year 2027:


(1) Catalyst bed temperature during extended idle may not fall below 350 °C, or a lower temperature that we approve. Describe how you designed your engine to meet this requirement in your application for certification. You may ask us to approve alternative strategies to prevent emissions from increasing during idle.


(2) In addition to the information requirements of § 1036.205(b), describe why you rely on any AECDs instead of other engine designs for thermal protection of catalyst or other emission-related components. Also describe the accuracy of any modeled or measured temperatures used to activate the AECD. We may ask you to submit a second-by-second comparison of any modeled and measured component temperatures as part of your application for certification.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29740, Apr. 22, 2024]




