# ยง 68.14   Consent findings or dismissal.

(a) *Submission.* Where the parties or their authorized representatives or their counsel have entered into a settlement agreement, they shall:


(1) Submit to the presiding Administrative Law Judge:


(i) The agreement containing consent findings; and


(ii) A proposed decision and order; or


(2) Notify the Administrative Law Judge that the parties have reached a full settlement and have agreed to dismissal of the action. Dismissal of the action shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Law Judge, who may require the filing of the settlement agreement.


(b) *Content.* Any agreement containing consent findings and a proposed decision and order disposing of a proceeding or any part thereof shall also provide:


(1) That the decision and order based on consent findings shall have the same force and effect as a decision and order made after full hearing;


(2) That the entire record on which any decision and order may be based shall consist solely of the complaint, notice of hearing, and any other such pleadings and documents as the Administrative Law Judge shall specify;


(3) A waiver of any further procedural steps before the Administrative Law Judge; and


(4) A waiver of any right to challenge or contest the validity of the decision and order entered into in accordance with the agreement.


(c) *Disposition.* In the event an agreement containing consent findings and an interim decision and order is submitted, the Administrative Law Judge, within thirty (30) days or as soon as practicable thereafter, may, if satisfied with its timeliness, form, and substance, accept such agreement by entering a decision and order based upon the agreed findings. In his or her discretion, the Administrative Law Judge may conduct a hearing to determine the fairness of the agreement, consent findings, and proposed decision and order.



---

[N] [Order No. 2203-99, 64 FR 7075, Feb. 12, 1999]




