# § 983.9   Special housing types.

(a) *Applicability.* (1) For applicability of rules on special housing types at 24 CFR part 982, subpart M, see § 983.2.


(2) In the PBV program, the PHA may not provide assistance for shared housing, manufactured home space rental, or the homeownership option.


(b) *Group homes.* A group home may include one or more group home units. A separate lease is executed for each elderly person or person with disabilities who resides in a group home.


(c) *Cooperative housing.* (1) *Applicability of part 983.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, assistance under this housing type is subject to the regulations of part 983, except the following sections of part 983, subpart F: §§ 983.256(b) and (c), 983.258 and 983.259 do not apply.


(2) *Applicability of part 982.* (i) Cooperative housing under the PBV program is also subject to the requirements of 24 CFR 982.619(b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(5), (d), and (e).


(ii) Cooperative housing under the PBV program is not subject to the requirements of 24 CFR 982.619(a), (b)(1), (b)(4), and (c).


(3) *Assistance in cooperative housing.* Rental assistance for PBV cooperative housing where families lease cooperative housing units from cooperative members is not a special housing type and all requirements of 24 CFR 983 apply.


(4) *Rent to owner.* The regulations of 24 CFR part 983, subpart G, apply to PBV housing under paragraph (c) of this section. The reasonable rent for a cooperative unit is determined in accordance with § 983.303. For cooperative housing, the rent to owner is the monthly carrying charge under the occupancy agreement/lease between the member and the cooperative.


(5) *Other fees and charges.* Fees such as application fees, credit report fees, and transfer fees shall not be included in the rent to owner.



---

[N] [70 FR 59913, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 36165, June 25, 2014]
















