# § 201.420   Appeal of determinations by self-regulatory organizations.

(a) *Application for review; when available.* An application for review by the Commission may be filed by any person who is aggrieved by a determination of a self-regulatory organization with respect to any:


(1) Final disciplinary sanction;


(2) Denial or conditioning of membership or participation;


(3) Prohibition or limitation in respect to access to services offered by that self-regulatory organization or a member thereof; or


(4) Bar from association as to which a notice is required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 19(d)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(d)(1).


(b) *Procedure.* As required by section 19(d)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. 78s(d)(1), an applicant must file an application for review with the Commission within 30 days after the notice of the determination is filed with the Commission and received by the aggrieved person applying for review. The Commission will not extend this 30-day period, absent a showing of extraordinary circumstances. This section is the exclusive remedy for seeking an extension of the 30-day period.


(c) *Application.* The application shall be filed with the Commission pursuant to § 201.151. The applicant shall serve the application on the self-regulatory organization. The application shall identify the determination complained of and set forth in summary form a brief statement of the alleged errors in the determination and supporting reasons therefor. The application shall state an address where the applicant can be served. The application should not exceed two pages in length. If the applicant will be represented by a representative, the application shall be accompanied by the notice of appearance required by § 201.102(d). Any exception to a determination not supported in an opening brief that complies with § 201.450(b) may, at the discretion of the Commission, be deemed to have been waived by the applicant.


(d) *Determination not stayed.* Filing an application for review with the Commission pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall not operate as a stay of the complained of determination made by the self-regulatory organization unless the Commission otherwise orders either pursuant to a motion filed in accordance with § 201.401 or on its own motion. 


(e) *Certification of the record; service of the index.* Fourteen days after receipt of an application for review or a Commission order for review, the self-regulatory organization shall certify and file electronically in the form and manner to be specified by the Office of the Secretary in the materials posted on the Commission's website one unredacted copy of the record upon which the action complained of was taken.


(1) The self-regulatory organization also shall file electronically with the Commission one copy of an index to such record, and shall serve upon each party one copy of the index. If such index contains any sensitive personal information, as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the self-regulatory organization also shall file electronically with the Commission one redacted copy of such index, subject to the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) *Sensitive personal information.* Sensitive personal information is defined as a Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, passport number, driver's license number, state-issued identification number, home address (other than city and state), telephone number, date of birth (other than year), names and initials of minor children, as well as any unnecessary health information identifiable by individual, such as an individual's medical records. Sensitive personal information shall not be included in, and must be redacted or omitted from, all filings subject to:


(i) *Exceptions.* The following information may be included and is not required to be redacted from filings:


(A) The last four digits of a financial account number, credit card or debit card number, passport number, driver's license number, and state-issued identification number;


(B) Home addresses and telephone numbers of parties and persons filing documents with the Commission;


(C) Business telephone numbers; and


(D) Copies of unredacted filings by regulated entities or registrants that are available on the Commission's public website.


(f) *Certification.* Any filing made pursuant to this section, other than the record upon which the action complained of was taken, must include a certification that any information described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section has been omitted or redacted from the filing.



---

[N] [60 FR 32796, June 23, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 13179, Mar. 19, 2004; 81 FR 50240, July 29, 2016; 85 FR 86480, Dec. 30, 2020]




