# § 16.46   Privacy Act requests for amendment or correction.

(a) *Requirements for making a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction.* Unless the record is not subject to amendment or correction, as stated in paragraph (i) of this section, individuals may make a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction of a Department record about themselves. Requesters must write directly to the Department component that maintains the record. A Privacy Act request for amendment or correction shall identify each particular record in question, state the amendment or correction that the requester would like to make, and state why the requester believes the record is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. Requesters may submit any documentation that would be helpful in determining the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of the record. If the requester believes that the same record is in more than one Department system of records, the requester should address the request to each component that the requester believes maintains the record. For the quickest possible handling, requesters should mark both their request letter and envelope “Privacy Act Amendment Request.” Components and requesters must otherwise follow the procedures and responsibilities set forth in §§ 16.41 and 16.42.


(b) *Timing of responses to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction.* (1) Components responsible for responding to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction must acknowledge, in writing, receipt of the request no later than ten (10) working days after receipt.


(2) Components must promptly respond to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction. Components ordinarily will respond to Privacy Act requests for amendment or correction according to their order of receipt. The response time will commence on the date that the request is received by the proper component's office designated to receive requests, but in any event no later than ten (10) working days after the request is first received by any component's office designated by this subpart to receive requests.


(3) A component may designate multiple processing tracks that distinguish between simple and more complex Privacy Act requests for amendment or correction, based on the estimated amount of work or time needed to process the request. Among the factors a component may consider are the number of pages involved in processing the request and the need for consultations or referrals. Components may advise requesters of the track into which their request falls and, when appropriate, may offer requesters an opportunity to narrow their request so that it can be placed in a different processing track.


(c) *Granting a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction.* If a component grants a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, it shall notify the requester in writing. The component shall describe the amendment or correction made and shall advise the requester of the requester's right to obtain a copy of the corrected or amended record, in accordance with the Privacy Act right of access procedures described in §§ 16.41 through 16.45.


(d) *Adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction.* A component that makes an adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, shall notify the requester of the determination in writing. An adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction includes a decision by the component that: the information at issue is not a record as defined by the Privacy Act; the requested record is not subject to amendment or correction as stated in paragraph (i) of this section; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought or the amendment or correction to that record; the record at issue does not exist, cannot be located, has been destroyed, or otherwise cannot be amended or corrected; or the record is maintained with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness in any determination about the individual about whom the record pertains.


(e) *Content of adverse determination response.* An adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, shall be signed by the head of the component, or the component head's designee, and shall include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the adverse determination to the Privacy Act request for amendment or correction;


(2) A brief statement of the reason(s) for the adverse determination to the Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, including any Privacy Act exemption(s) applied by the component; and


(3) A statement that the adverse determination to the Privacy Act request for amendment or correction may be appealed under paragraph (f) of this section and a description of the requirements set forth in paragraph (f).


(f) *Privacy Act amendment appeals.* (1) A requester may appeal an adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, to the Office of Privacy and Civil Liberties (“OPCL”). The contact information for OPCL is available at *https://www.justice.gov/privacy.* The requester must make the appeal in writing. To be considered timely, the requester must postmark the appeal request, or in the case of electronic submissions, submit the appeal request, within 90 calendar days after the date of the component's refusal to grant a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction. The appeal should indicate the assigned request number and clearly identify the component's determination that is being appealed. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or include in the subject line of the electronic transmission, “Privacy Act Amendment Appeal.”


(2) The Chief Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer (“CPCLO”), or a designee of the CPCLO, will act on behalf of the Attorney General on all Privacy Act amendment appeals under this section, unless otherwise directed by the Attorney General.


(3) A Privacy Act amendment appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of litigation.


(4) A decision on a Privacy Act amendment appeal must be made in writing. A decision that upholds a component's adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, shall include a brief statement of the reason(s) for the affirmance, including any Privacy Act exemption applied, whether the requester has a right to file a Statement of Disagreement, as described in paragraph (g) of this section, and the requester's statutory right to file a lawsuit. A decision that reverses or modifies a component's adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, in whole or in part, shall notify the requester of the specific reversal or modification. The component shall thereafter further process the request, in accordance with the appeal decision, and respond directly to the requester, as appropriate.


(g) *Statement of Disagreement.* If a request is subject to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction, but the component's adverse determination to a Privacy Act request for amendment or correction is upheld, in whole or in part, the requester has the right to file a Statement of Disagreement that states the requester's reason(s) for disagreeing with the Department's refusal to grant the requester's Privacy Act request for amendment or correction. Statements of Disagreement must be concise, must clearly identify each part of any record that is disputed, and should be no longer than one typed page for each fact disputed. A Statement of Disagreement must be sent to the component involved, which shall place it in the system of records in which the disputed record is maintained so that the Statement of Disagreement supplements the disputed record. The component shall mark the disputed record to indicate that a Statement of Disagreement has been filed and where in the system of records it may be found.


(h) *Notification of amendment, correction, or Statement of Disagreement.* Within thirty (30) working days of the amendment or correction of a record, the component that maintains the record shall notify all persons, organizations, or agencies to which it previously disclosed the record, if an accounting of that disclosure was made, that the record has been amended or corrected. If an individual has filed a Statement of Disagreement, the component shall append a copy of it to the disputed record whenever the record is disclosed. The component may also append a concise statement of its reason(s) for denying the Privacy Act request for amendment or correction of the record.


(i) *Records not subject to amendment or correction.* The following records are not subject to amendment or correction:


(1) Copies of court records;


(2) Transcripts of testimony given under oath or written statements made under oath;


(3) Transcripts of grand jury proceedings, judicial proceedings, or quasi-judicial proceedings, which are the official record of those proceedings;


(4) Presentence reports, and other records pertaining directly to such reports originating with the courts;


(5) Records in a system of records that have been exempted from amendment and correction, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j) or (k), through the applicable regulations in this subpart; and


(6) Records not maintained in a system of records.






