# § 302.100   Definitions.

For purposes of §§ 302.100 through 302.107, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


(a) *Appointment date.* The term *appointment date* means the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company that is a covered broker or dealer. This date shall constitute the *filing date* as that term is used in SIPA.


(b) *Bridge broker or dealer.* The term *bridge broker or dealer* means a new financial company organized by the Corporation in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) for the purpose of resolving a covered broker or dealer.


(c) *Commission.* The term *Commission* means the Securities and Exchange Commission.


(d) *Covered broker or dealer.* The term *covered broker or dealer* means a covered financial company that is a qualified broker or dealer.


(e) *Customer.* The term *customer* of a covered broker or dealer shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(2) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer.


(f) *Customer name securities.* The term *customer name securities* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(3) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to *filing date* shall mean the appointment date.


(g) *Customer property.* The term *customer property* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(4) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer.


(h) *Net equity.* The term *net equity* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(11) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to *filing date* shall mean the appointment date.


(i) *Qualified broker or dealer.* The term *qualified broker or dealer* means a broker or dealer that (A) is registered with the Commission under Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)); and (B) is a member of SIPC.


(j) *SIPA.* The term *SIPA* means the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa-*lll.*

(k) *SIPC.* The term *SIPC* means the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.


(l) *Corporation.* The term *Corporation* means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


(m) *Dodd-Frank Act.* The term *Dodd-Frank Act* means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, enacted July 21, 2010.




