# § 21.6120   Educational and vocational training services.

(a) *Purposes.* Educational and vocational training services are to be provided to a veteran eligible for services and assistance under this temporary program to enable the veteran to:


(1) Become employable in the occupational objective established in an IWRP; and


(2) Receive incidental training necessary to achieve the employment objective established in an IEAP.


(b) *Selection of courses.* VA and the veteran will select vocationally oriented courses of study and training, completion of which usually results in a diploma, certificate, degree, qualification for licensure, or employment. The educational and training services to be provided include:


(1) Remedial, deficiency and refresher training; and


(2) Training which leads to a vocational objective. All of the forms of program pursuit presented in § 21.122 through § 21.132 of this part may be authorized. Education and training programs in institutions of higher learning are authorized provided the courses are part of a program which is predominantly vocational in content. The program of education and training shall be considered to be predominantly vocational in content if the majority of the instruction offered provides the technical skills and knowledge generally regarded as specific to, and required for, entry into the vocational goal approved for the veteran. Such education and training may generally be authorized at an undergraduate or advanced degree level. However the following are excluded:


(i) An associate degree program in which the content of the majority of the instruction provided is not vocationally oriented;


(ii) The first two years of a 4-year baccalaureate degree program;


(iii) The last two or more years of a 4-year baccalaureate degree program except in degree programs with majors in engineering, teaching, or other similar degree programs with vocational content which ordinarily lead directly to employment in an occupation that is usually available to persons holding such a degree; or


(iv) An advanced degree program, except for a degree program required for entry into the veteran's employment objective, such as a master's degree in social work.


(c) *Charges for education and training services.* The cost of education and training services will be considered in selecting a facility when:


(1) There is more than one facility in the area in which the veteran resides which:


(i) Meets the requirements for approval under § 21.290 through § 21.299 of this part;


(ii) Can provide the education and training services and other supportive services specified in the veteran's plan; and


(iii) Is within reasonable commuting distance; or


(2) The veteran wishes to train at a suitable facility in another area, even though training can be provided at a suitable facility in the area in which the veteran resides. See §§ 21.120, 21.370, 21.372.


(d) *Courses not available.* If suitable educational and training courses are not available in the area in which the veteran resides, or if they are available but not accessible to the veteran, other arrangements may be made. Such arrangements may include, but are not limited to:


(1) Relocation of the veteran to another area in which necessary services are available, or


(2) Use of an individual instructor to provide necessary training as provided under § 21.146 of this part.


