# § 393.118   Specific securement requirements for dressed lumber and similar building products.

(a) *Applicability.* The rules in this section apply to the transportation of bundles of dressed lumber, packaged lumber, building products such as plywood, gypsum board or other materials of similar shape. Lumber or building products which are not bundled or packaged must be treated as loose items and transported in accordance with §§ 393.100 through 393.114 of this subpart. For the purpose of this section, “bundle” refers to packages of lumber, building materials or similar products which are unitized for securement as a single article of cargo. 


(b) *Positioning of bundles.* Bundles must be placed side by side in direct contact with each other, or a means must be provided to prevent bundles from shifting towards each other. 


(c) *Securement of bundles transported using no more than one tier.* Bundles carried on one tier must be secured in accordance with the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114. 


(d) *Securement of bundles transported using more than one tier.* Bundles carried in more than one tier must be either: 


(1) Blocked against lateral movement by stakes on the sides of the vehicle and secured by tiedowns laid out over the top tier, as outlined in the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114; or 


(2) Restrained from lateral movement by blocking or high friction devices between tiers and secured by tiedowns laid out over the top tier, as outlined in the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114; or 


(3) Placed directly on top of other bundles or on spacers and secured in accordance with the following: 


(i) The length of spacers between bundles must provide support to all pieces in the bottom row of the bundle. 


(ii) The width of individual spacers must be equal to or greater than the height. 


(iii) If spacers are comprised of layers of material, the layers must be unitized or fastened together in a manner which ensures that the spacer performs as a single piece of material. 


(iv) The arrangement of the tiedowns for the bundles must be: 


(A) Secured by tiedowns over the top tier of bundles, in accordance with the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114 with a minimum of two tiedowns for bundles longer than 1.52 meters (5 ft); and 


(B) Secured by tiedowns as follows:


(*1*) If there are 3 tiers, the middle and top bundles must be secured by tiedowns in accordance with the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114; or


(*2*)(*i*) If there are more than 3 tiers, then one of the middle bundles and the top bundle must be secured by tiedown devices in accordance with the general provision of §§ 393.100 through 393.114, and the maximum height for the middle tier that must be secured may not exceed 6 feet above the deck of the trailer; or


(*ii*) Otherwise, the second tier from the bottom must be secured in accordance with the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114; or 


(4) Secured by tiedowns over each tier of bundles, in accordance with §§ 393.100 through 393.114 using a minimum of two tiedowns over each of the top bundles longer than 1.52 meters (5 ft), in all circumstances; or


(e) When loaded in a sided vehicle or container of adequate strength, dressed lumber or similar building products may be secured in accordance with the general provisions of §§ 393.100 through 393.114.



---

[N] [67 FR 61225, Sept. 27, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 35834, June 22, 2006; 78 FR 58484, Sept. 24, 2013]




