# § 98.37   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the requirements of § 98.3(g), you must retain:


(a) The applicable records specified in §§ 98.34(f), 98.35(b), and 98.36(e).


(b) The applicable verification software records as identified in this paragraph (b). For each stationary fuel combustion source that elects to use the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) rather than report data specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(iii), (c)(2)(ix), (e)(2)(i), (e)(2)(ii)(A), (C), and (D), (e)(2)(iv)(A), (C), and (F), and (e)(2)(ix)(D) through (F) of this section, you must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (37) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (b)(1) through (37) of this section.


(1) Mass of each solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (equation C-1 to § 98.33).


(2) Volume of each liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (equation C-1 to § 98.33).


(3) Volume of each gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (equation C-1 to § 98.33).


(4) Annual natural gas usage (therms/year) (equation C-1a to § 98.33).


(5) Annual natural gas usage (mmBtu/year) (equation C-1b to § 98.33).


(6) Mass of each solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(7) Volume of each liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(8) Volume of each gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(9) Measured high heat value of each solid fuel, for month (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (mmBtu per ton) (equation C-2b to § 98.33). Annual average HHV of each solid fuel (mmBtu per ton) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(10) Measured high heat value of each liquid fuel, for month (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (mmBtu per gallons) (equation C-2b to § 98.33). Annual average HHV of each liquid fuel (mmBtu per gallons) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(11) Measured high heat value of each gaseous fuel, for month (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (mmBtu per scf) (equation C-2b to § 98.33). Annual average HHV of each gaseous fuel (mmBtu per scf) (equation C-2a to § 98.33).


(12) Mass of each solid fuel combusted during month (tons) (equation C-2b to § 98.33).


(13) Volume of each liquid fuel combusted during month (gallons) (equation C-2b to § 98.33).


(14) Volume of each gaseous fuel combusted during month (scf) (equation C-2b, equation C-5A, equation C-5B to § 98.33).


(15) Total mass of steam generated by municipal solid waste or each solid fuel combustion during the reporting year (pounds steam) (equation C-2c to § 98.33).


(16) Ratio of the boiler's maximum rated heat input capacity to its design rated steam output capacity (MMBtu/pounds steam) (equation C-2c to § 98.33).


(17) Annual mass of each solid fuel combusted (short tons/year) (equation C-3 to § 98.33).


(18) Annual average carbon content of each solid fuel (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation C-3 to § 98.33). Where applicable, monthly carbon content of each solid fuel (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation C-2b to § 98.33—see the definition of “CC” in equation C-3 to § 98.33).


(19) Annual volume of each liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (equation C-4 to § 98.33).


(20) Annual average carbon content of each liquid fuel (kg C per gallon of fuel) (equation C-4 to § 98.33). Where applicable, monthly carbon content of each liquid fuel (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (kg C per gallon of fuel) (equation C-2b to § 98.33—see the definition of “CC” in equation C-3 to § 98.33).


(21) Annual volume of each gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (equation C-5 to § 98.33).


(22) Annual average carbon content of each gaseous fuel (kg C per kg of fuel) (equation C-5 to § 98.33). Where applicable, monthly carbon content of each gaseous (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (kg C per kg of fuel) (equation C-5A to § 98.33).


(23) Annual average molecular weight of each gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (equation C-5 to § 98.33). Where applicable, monthly molecular weight of each gaseous (which may be the arithmetic average of multiple determinations), or, if applicable, an appropriate substitute data value (kg/kg-mole) (equation C-5B to § 98.33).


(24) Molar volume conversion factor at standard conditions, as defined in § 98.6 (scf per kg-mole) (equation C-5 to § 98.33).


(25) Identify for each fuel if you will use the default high heat value from table C-1 to this subpart, or actual high heat value data (equation C-8 to § 98.33).


(26) High heat value of each solid fuel (mmBtu/tons) (equation C-8 to § 98.33).


(27) High heat value of each liquid fuel (mmBtu/gallon) (equation C-8 to § 98.33).


(28) High heat value of each gaseous fuel (mmBtu/scf) (equation C-8 to § 98.33).


(29) Cumulative annual heat input from combustion of each fuel (mmBtu) (equation C-10 to § 98.33).


(30) Total quantity of each solid fossil fuel combusted in the reporting year, as defined in § 98.6 (pounds) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(31) Total quantity of each liquid fossil fuel combusted in the reporting year, as defined in § 98.6 (gallons) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(32) Total quantity of each gaseous fossil fuel combusted in the reporting year, as defined in § 98.6 (scf) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(33) High heat value of the each solid fossil fuel (Btu/lb) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(34) High heat value of the each liquid fossil fuel (Btu/gallons) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(35) High heat value of the each gaseous fossil fuel (Btu/scf) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(36) Fuel-specific carbon based F-factor per fuel (scf CO_2_/mmBtu) (equation C-13 to § 98.33).


(37) Moisture content used to calculate the wood and wood residuals wet basis HHV (percent), if applicable (equations C-1 and C-8 to § 98.33).





---

[N] [79 FR 63783, Oct. 24, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 89252, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31903, Apr. 25, 2024]




