# ยง 17.183   Disposition of recovered alcohol and material from which alcohol can be recovered.

(a) *Recovered alcohol.* Manufacturers of nonbeverage products shall not sell or transfer recovered spirits to any other premises without TTB authorization under ยง 17.3. If recovered spirits are stored pending reuse, storage facilities shall be adequate to protect the revenue. If recovered spirits are destroyed, the record required by ยง 17.168(c) must be kept. Spirits recovered from intermediate products may be destroyed without notice to TTB. Spirits recovered from nonbeverage products may be destroyed pursuant to a notice filed with the appropriate TTB officer at least 12 days prior to the date of destruction. The notice shall state the reason for the destruction, the intended date of destruction, and the approximate quantity involved. The appropriate TTB officer may impose specific conditions, including requiring that the destruction be witnessed by an appropriate TTB officer. Unless the manufacturer is otherwise advised by the appropriate TTB officer before the date specified in the notice, the destruction may proceed as planned.


(b) *By-product material (general).* By-product material from which alcohol can be recovered shall not be sold or transferred unless the alcohol has been removed or an approved substance has been added to prevent recovery of residual alcohol. Material from which alcohol can be recovered may also be destroyed on the manufacturer's premises by a suitable method. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, prior written approval shall be obtained from the appropriate TTB officer as to the adequacy, under this section, of any substance proposed to be added to prevent recovery of alcohol, or of any proposed method of destruction.


(c) *Spent vanilla beans.* Specific approval from the appropriate TTB officer is not required when spent vanilla beans containing residual alcohol are destroyed on the manufacturer's premises by burning, or when they are removed from those premises after treatment with sufficient kerosene, mineral spirits, rubber hydrocarbon solvent, or gasoline to prevent recovery of residual alcohol.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-379, 61 FR 31412, June 20, 1996, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87937, Nov. 6, 2024]






