# § 485.536   Condition of participation: Quality assessment and performance improvement program.

The REH must develop, implement, and maintain an effective, ongoing, REH-wide, data-driven quality assessment and performance improvement (QAPI) program. The REH's governing body must ensure that the program reflects the complexity of the REH's organization and services; involves all REH departments and services (including those services furnished under contract or arrangement); and focuses on indicators related to improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of medical errors. The REH must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its QAPI program for review by CMS.


(a) *Standard: Program scope.* (1) The program must include, but not be limited to, an ongoing program that shows measurable improvement in indicators for which there is evidence that it will improve health outcomes and identify and reduce medical errors.


(2) The REH must measure, analyze, and track quality indicators, including adverse patient events, staffing, and other aspects of performance that assess processes of care including REH service and operations.


(b) *Standard: Program data collection and analysis.* The program must incorporate quality indicator data including patient care data, and other relevant data, in order to achieve the goals of the QAPI program.


(c) *Standard: Program activities.* (1) The REH must set priorities for its performance improvement activities that—


(i) Focus on high-risk, high-volume, or problem-prone areas;


(ii) Consider the incidence, prevalence, and severity of problems in those areas; and


(iii) Affect health outcomes, patient safety, and quality of care.


(2) Performance improvement activities must track medical errors and adverse patient events, analyze their causes, and implement preventive actions and mechanisms that include feedback and learning throughout the REH. An adverse patient event means an untoward, undesirable, and usually unanticipated event that causes death or serious injury or the risk thereof. Medical error means an error that occurs in the delivery of health care services.


(3) The REH must take actions aimed at performance improvement and, after implementing those actions, the REH must measure its success, and track performance to ensure that improvements are sustained.


(d) *Standard: Executive responsibilities.* The REH's governing body (or organized group or individual who assumes full legal authority and responsibility for operations of the REH), medical staff, and administrative officials are responsible and accountable for ensuring the following:


(1) That an ongoing program for quality improvement and patient safety, including the reduction of medical errors, is defined, implemented, and maintained.


(2) That the REH-wide quality assessment and performance improvement efforts address priorities for improved quality of care and patient safety; and that all improvement actions are evaluated.


(3) That clear expectations for safety are established.


(4) That adequate resources are allocated for measuring, assessing, improving, and sustaining the REH's performance and reducing risk to patients.


(e) *Standard: Unified and integrated QAPI program for an REH in a multi-facility system*. If an REH is part of a system consisting of multiple separately certified hospitals, CAHs, and/or REHs using a system governing body that is legally responsible for the conduct of two or more hospitals, CAHs, and/or REHs, the system governing body can elect to have a unified and integrated QAPI program for all of its member facilities after determining that such a decision is in accordance with all applicable state and local laws. The system governing body is responsible and accountable for ensuring that each of its separately certified REHs meets all of the requirements of this section. Each separately certified REH subject to the system governing body must demonstrate that—


(1) The unified and integrated QAPI program is established in a manner that takes into account each member REH's unique circumstances and any significant differences in patient populations and services offered in each REH; and


(2) The unified and integrated QAPI program establishes and implements policies and procedures to ensure that the needs and concerns of each of its separately certified REHs, regardless of practice or location, are given due consideration, and that the unified and integrated QAPI program has mechanisms in place to ensure that issues localized to particular REHs are duly considered and addressed.






