# § 73.623   TV application processing.

(a) *General.* Applications for new TV broadcast stations or for changes in authorized TV stations filed pursuant to this section will not be accepted for filing if they fail to comply with the requirements of this section and §§ 73.614, 73.617, 73.618, and 73.620.


(b) *Availability of channels.* Applications may be filed to construct TV broadcast stations only on the channels designated in the Table of TV Allotments set forth in § 73.622(j), and only in the communities listed therein. Applications that fail to comply with this requirement, whether or not accompanied by a petition to amend the TV Table, will not be accepted for filing.


(c) through (g) [Reserved]


(h) *TV application processing priorities are as follows:*

(1) [Reserved]


(2) TV applications for a construction permit or a modified construction permit:


(i) Shall be afforded the interference protection set forth in § 73.620:


(A) through (C) [Reserved]


(D) By later-filed TV applications; and


(E) By later-filed rulemaking petitions to amend the Table of TV Allotments;


(ii) Must demonstrate the requisite interference protection set forth in § 73.620 to:


(A) TV licensed stations;


(B) TV construction permits;


(C) Earlier-filed TV applications;


(D) Existing TV allotments;


(E) Rulemaking petitions to amend the Table of TV Allotments for which a Notice of Proposed Rule Making has been released and the comment deadline specified therein has passed prior to the filing date of the TV application;


(F) through (J) [Reserved]


(iii) That do not provide the requisite interference protection set forth § 73.620 to the following applications and petitions will be deemed mutually exclusive with those applications and petitions:


(A) Other TV applications filed the same day;


(B) Rulemaking petitions to amend the Table of TV Allotments for which a Notice of Proposed Rule Making had been released and the comment deadline specified therein had not passed prior to the filing date of the TV application; and


(C) Earlier-filed rulemaking petitions to amend the Table of TV Allotments for which a Notice of Proposed Rule Making had not been released.


(3) TV applicants and TV rulemaking petitioners that are mutually exclusive pursuant to this section will be notified by Public Notice and provided with a 90-day period of time to resolve their mutual exclusivity via engineering amendment or settlement. Those applications and petitions that remain mutually exclusive upon conclusion of the 90-day settlement period will be dismissed.



---

[N] [89 FR 7248, Feb. 1, 2024]






