# ยง 86.122-78   Carbon monoxide analyzer calibration.

The NDIR carbon monoxide analyzer shall receive the following initial and periodic calibrations:


(a) *Initial and periodic interference check.* Prior to its introduction into service and annually thereafter the NDIR carbon monoxide analyzer shall be checked for response to water vapor and CO_2_:


(1) Follow the manufacturer's instructions for instrument startup and operation. Adjust the analyzer to optimize performance on the most sensitive range to be used.


(2) Zero the carbon monoxide analyzer with either zero-grade air or zero-grade nitrogen.


(3) Bubble a mixture of 3 percent CO_2_ in N_2_ through water at room temperature and record analyzer response.


(4) An analyzer response of more than 1 percent of full scale for ranges above 300 ppm full scale or of more than 3 ppm on ranges below 300 ppm full scale will require corrective action. (Use of conditioning columns is one form of corrective action which may be taken.)


(b) *Initial and periodic calibration.* Prior to its introduction into service and monthly thereafter the NDIR carbon monoxide analyzer shall be calibrated.


(1) Adjust the analyzer to optimize performance.


(2) Zero the carbon monoxide analyzer with either zero-grade air or zero-grade nitrogen.


(3) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with carbon monoxide in N_2_ calibration gases having nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 percent of that range. Additional calibration points may be generated. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least-squares best-fit straight line is 2 percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds 2 percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within 2 percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration.




