# § 173.303   Charging of cylinders with compressed gas in solution (acetylene).

(a) *Cylinder, filler and solvent requirements.* (Refer to applicable parts of Specification 8 and 8AL). Acetylene gas must be shipped in Specification 8 or 8AL cylinders (§ 178.59 or § 178.60 of this subchapter). The cylinders shall consist of metal shells filled with a porous material, and this material must be charged with a suitable solvent. The cylinders containing the porous material and solvent shall be successfully tested in accordance with CGA C-12 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Representative samples of cylinders charged with acetylene must be successfully tested in accordance with CGA C-12.


(b) *Filling limits.* For DOT specification cylinders, the pressure in the cylinder containing acetylene gas may not exceed 250 psig at 70 °F. If cylinders are marked for a lower allowable charging pressure at 70 °F., that pressure must not be exceeded. For UN cylinders, the pressure in the cylinder may not exceed the limits specified in § 173.304b(b)(2).


(c) *Data requirements on filler and solvent.* Cylinders containing acetylene gas must not be shipped unless they were charged by or with the consent of the owner, and by a person, firm, or company having possession of complete information as to the nature of the porous filling, the kind and quantity of solvent in the cylinders, and the meaning of such markings on the cylinders as are prescribed by the Department's regulations and specifications applying to containers for the transportation of acetylene gas.


(d) *Verification of container pressure.* (1) Each day, the pressure in a container representative of that day's compression must be checked by the charging plant after the container has cooled to a settled temperature and a record of this test kept for at least 30 days.


(e) *Prefill requirements.* Before each filling of an acetylene cylinder, the person filling the cylinder must visually inspect the outside of the cylinder in accordance with the prefill requirements contained in CGA C-13, Section 3 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(f) *UN cylinders.* (1) UN cylinders and bundles of cylinders are authorized for the transport of acetylene gas as specified in this section.




(i) Each UN acetylene cylinder must conform to ISO 3807:2013(E): (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter), have a homogeneous monolithic porous mass filler and be charged with acetone or a suitable solvent as specified in the standard. UN acetylene cylinders must have a minimum test pressure of 52 bar and may be filled up to the pressure limits specified in ISO 3807:2013(E). The use of UN tubes and MEGCs is not authorized.






(ii) Until December 31, 2020, cylinders conforming to the requirements in ISO 3807-2(E) (IBR, *see* § 171.7 of this subchapter), having a homogeneous monolithic porous mass filler and charged with acetone or a suitable solvent as specified in the standard are authorized. UN acetylene cylinders must have a minimum test pressure of 52 bar and may be filled up to the pressure limits specified in ISO 3807-2(E).


(2) UN cylinders equipped with pressure relief devices or that are manifolded together must be transported upright.



---

[N] [29 FR 18743, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967]


