# 434.003   Responsibilities.

(a) The key executives of USDA (Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries) individually or as a group will participate in making four key decision in each major system acquisition process.


(1) Identification and definition of a specific mission need to be fulfilled, the relative priority assigned within the agency, and the general magnitude of resources that may be invested.


(2) Selection of competitive system design concepts to be advanced to a test/demonstration phase or authorization to proceed with the development of a noncompetitive (single concept) system.


(3) Commitment of a system to full-scale development and limited production.


(4) Commitment of a system to full production.


(b) The Chief Information Officer (CIO) is the Major Information Technology Systems Executive. For acquisitions of information technology, the CIO will ensure that Circular A-11 is implemented in USDA and that the management objectives of Circular A-11 are realized. The CIO is responsible for designating the program manager for each major information technology system acquisition, designating an acquisition to be a major information technology system acquisition, and approving the written charter and project control system for each major information technology system acquisition.


(c) The ASA will ensure that Circular A-11 is implemented in USDA and that the management objectives of Circular A-11 are realized. The SPE is responsible for designating the program manager for each major system non-IT acquisition, designating an acquisition to be a major system non-IT acquisition, and approving the written charter and project control system for each major system non-IT acquisition.


(d) The Mission Area senior contracting official must:


(1) Ensure compliance with the requirements of Circular A-11, FAR part 34, and AGAR part 434.


(2) Ensure that potential major system acquisitions are brought to the attention of the USDA Acquisition Executive or the Major Information Technology Systems Executive, as appropriate.


(3) Coordinate with Mission Area Program Managers (MASPMs) to recommend qualified candidates for designation as program managers for each major system acquisition within their jurisdiction.


(4) Coordinate with MASPMs to verify that program managers fulfill their responsibilities and discharge their duties.


(5) Cooperate with the ASA and Major Information Technology Systems Executive in implementing the requirements of Circular A-11.


(e) The program manager is responsible for planning and executing the major system acquisition, ensuring appropriate coordination with the USDA Acquisition Executive, Major Information Technology Systems Executive, and other key USDA executives.






