# § 1011.205   What is the timing of the HIRE Vets Medallion Award process?

VETS will review all timely applications that fall under any cap established in § 1011.305 of this part to determine whether an employer should receive a HIRE Vets Medallion Award, and, if so, of what level.


(a) *Performance period*—except as otherwise noted in § 1011.120 of this part, only the employer's actions taken prior to December 31 of the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which applications are solicited will be considered in reviewing the award.


(b) *Solicitation period*—VETS will solicit applications not later than January 31 of each calendar year for the HIRE Vets Medallion Award to be awarded in November of that calendar year.


(c) *End of acceptance period*—VETS will stop accepting applications on April 30 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.


(d) *Review period*—VETS will finish reviewing applications not later than August 31 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.


(e) *Selection of recipients*—VETS will select the employers to receive HIRE Vets Medallion Awards not later than September 30 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year.


(f) *Notice of awards and denials*—VETS will notify employers who will receive HIRE Vets Medallion Awards not later than October 11 of each calendar year for the awards to be awarded in November of that calendar year. VETS will also notify applicants who will not be receiving an award at that time.




