# § 34.22   Federally owned property.

(a) *Annual inventory.* Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of all Federally owned property in their custody (property furnished by the Federal Government, rather than acquired by the recipient with Federal funds under the award), to the DoD Component or other Federal agency responsible for administering the property under the award.


(b) *Use on other activities.* (1) Use of federally owned property on other activities is permissible, if authorized by the DoD Component responsible for administering the award to which the property currently is charged.


(2) Use on other activities will be in the following order of priority:


(i) Activities sponsored by DoD Components' grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;


(ii) Activities sponsored by other Federal agencies' grants, cooperative agreements, or other assistance awards;


(iii) Activities under Federal procurement contracts, or activities not sponsored by any Federal agency. If so used, use charges shall be assessed to those activities. For real property or equipment, the use charges shall be at rates equivalent to those for which comparable real property or equipment may be leased. The use charges shall be treated as program income.


(c) *Disposition of property.* Upon completion of the award, the recipient shall report the property to the responsible agency. The agency may:


(1) Use the property to meet another Federal Government need (e.g., by transferring accountability for the property to another Federal award to the same recipient, or by directing the recipient to transfer the property to a Federal agency that needs the property, or to another recipient with a currently funded award).


(2) Declare the property to be excess property and either:


(i) Report the property to the General Services Administration, in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 483(b)(2)), as implemented by General Services Administration regulations at 41 CFR 101-47.202; or


(ii) Dispose of the property by alternative methods, if there is statutory authority to do so (e.g., DoD Components are authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3710(i), the Federal Technology Transfer Act, to donate research equipment to educational and nonprofit organizations for the conduct of technical and scientific education and research activities. Such donations shall be in accordance with the DoD implementation of E.O. 12999 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 180), “Educational Technology: Ensuring Opportunity for All Children in the Next Century,” as applicable.) Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by the responsible agency.




