# ยง 500.2   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program Act, Chapter 2 of Public Law 106-51.


(b) *Administer, administering and administration,* mean the Lender's actions in making, disbursing, servicing (including, but not limited to care, preservation and maintenance of collateral), collecting and liquidating a loan and security.


(c) *Agent* means that Lender authorized to take such actions, exercise such powers, and perform such duties on behalf and in representation of all Lenders party to a Guarantee of a single loan, as is required by, or necessarily incidental to, the terms and conditions of the Guarantee. 


(d) *Applicant* means the private banking or investment institution applying for a loan guarantee under this part.


(e) *Board* means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board.


(f) *Borrower* means a Qualified Oil and Gas Company which could receive a loan guaranteed by the Board under this Program.


(g) *Guarantee* means the written agreement between the Board and one or more Lenders, and approved by the Borrower, pursuant to which the Board guarantees repayment of a specified percentage of the principal of the loan, including the Special Terms and Conditions, the General Terms and Conditions, and all exhibits thereto. 


(h) *Lender* means a private banking or investment institution, eligible under ยง 500.201, that is a party to a Guarantee issued by the Board. With respect to a Guarantee of a single loan to which more than one Lender is a party, the term Lender means Agent. 


(i) *Loan Documents* mean the loan agreement and all other instruments, and all documentation between the Lender and the Borrower evidencing the making, disbursing, securing, collecting, or otherwise administering of the loan.


(j) *Program* means the Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program established by the Act.


(k) *Security* means all property, real or personal, required by the provisions of the Guarantee or by the Loan Documents to secure repayment of any indebtedness of the Borrower under the Loan Documents or Guarantee.


(l) *Qualified Oil and Gas Company* means any company that: (A) is (i) an independent oil and gas company (within the meaning of section 57(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) or; (ii) a small business concern under section 3 of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632, (or a company based in Alaska, including an Alaska Native Corporation created pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) that is an oil field service company whose main business is providing tools, products, personnel, and technical solutions on a contractual basis to exploration and production operators that drill, complete wells, and produce, transport, refine, and sell hydrocarbons and their byproducts as the main commercial business of the concern or company; and (B) has experienced layoffs, production losses, or financial losses since January 1997.



---

[N] [64 FR 57947, Oct. 27, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 24106, Apr. 25, 2000]




