# ยง 261.77   Prohibitions in Region 8, Southern Region.

(a) Using or occupying any area of National Forest System land abutting the Chattooga River for the purpose of entering or going upon the River in, on, or upon any floatable object or craft of every kind or description, unless authorized through a self-registration floating permit or through a special use permit. (The Chattooga River is located in the Nantahala National Forest in North Carolina, the Sumter National Forest in South Carolina, and the Chattahoochee National Forest in Georgia.)


(b) Using or occupying within the scope of any commercial operation or business any area of National Forest System land abutting the Chattooga River for the purpose of entering or going upon the River in, on, or upon any floatable object or craft of every kind or description, unless authorized under a special use permit.


(c) Violating or failing to comply with any of the terms or conditions of any self-registration floating permit or special use permit authorizing the occupancy and use specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is prohibited.


(d) Entering, going, riding, or floating upon any portion or segment of the Chattooga River within National Forest System land in, on, or upon any floatable object or craft of every kind or description, unless authorized through a self-registration floating permit or through a special use permit.


(e) Entering, going, riding, or floating within the scope of any commercial operation or business upon any portion or segment of the Chattooga River within National Forest System land in, on, or upon any floatable object or craft of every kind or description, unless authorized under a special use permit.


(f) Violating or failing to comply with any of the terms or conditions of any self-registration floating permit or special use permit authorizing the occupancy and use specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section is prohibited.



---

[N] [88 FR 76676, Nov. 7, 2023] 




