# ยง 98.76   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable for each ammonia manufacturing unit.








(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report the relevant information required under ยง 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section:


(1) Annual quantity of each type of feedstock consumed for ammonia manufacturing (scf of feedstock or gallons of feedstock or kg of feedstock).


(2) Method used for determining quantity of feedstock used.


(3) Annual ammonia production (metric tons, sum of all process units reported within subpart G of this part).


(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure emissions, then you must report all of the following information in this paragraph (b):


(1) Annual CO_2_ process emissions (metric tons) for each ammonia manufacturing unit.




(2) Annual quantity of each type of feedstock consumed for ammonia manufacturing (scf of feedstock or gallons of feedstock or kg of feedstock).


(3) Method used for determining quantity of monthly feedstock used.


(4) Whether carbon content for each feedstock for month n is based on reports from the supplier or analysis of carbon content.


(5) If carbon content of feedstock for month n is based on analysis, the test method used.


(6) Sampling analysis results of carbon content of feedstock as determined for QA/QC of supplier data under ยง 98.74(e).


(7) Annual average carbon content of each type of feedstock consumed.


(8)-(11) [Reserved]


(12) Annual urea production (metric tons) and method used to determine urea production.


(13) Annual amount of CO_2_ (metric tons) collected from ammonia production and consumed on site for urea production and the method used to determine the CO_2_ consumed in urea production.










(14) Annual ammonia production (metric tons, sum of all process units reported within subpart G).


(15) Annual quantity of methanol intentionally produced as a desired product, for each process unit (metric tons).


(16) Annual quantity of excess hydrogen produced that is not consumed through the production of ammonia (metric tons).











---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79157, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71953, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63785, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89253, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31904, Apr. 25, 2024]




