# § 430.74   Issues at hearing.

The list of issues specified in the notice of hearing may be augmented or reduced as provided in this section. 


(a) *Additional issues.* (1) Before a hearing under § 430.35, the Administrator may send written notice to the State listing additional issues to be considered at the hearing. That notice is published in the _Federal Register._

(2) If the notice of additional issues is furnished to the State less than 20 days before the scheduled hearing date, postponement is granted if requested by the State or any other party. The new date may be 20 days after the date of the notice, or a later date agreed to by the presiding officer. 


(b) *New or modified issues.* If, as a result of negotiations between CMS and the State, the submittal of plan amendment, a change in the State program, or other actions by the State, any issue is resolved in whole or in part, but new or modified issues are presented, as specified by the presiding officer, the hearing proceeds on the new or modified issues. 


(c) *Issues removed from consideration*—(1) *Basis for removal.* If at any time before, during, or after the hearing, the presiding officer finds that the State has come into compliance with Federal requirements on any issue or part of an issue, he or she removes the appropriate issue or part of an issue from consideration. If all issues are removed, the hearing is terminated. 


(2) *Notice to parties.* Before removing any issue or part of an issue from consideration, the presiding officer provides all parties other than CMS and the State with— 


(i) A statement of the intent to remove and the reasons for removal; and 


(ii) A copy of the proposed State plan provision on which CMS and the State have agreed. 


(3) *Opportunity for written comment.* The notified parties have 15 days to submit, for consideration by the presiding officer, and for the record, their views as to, or any information bearing upon, the merits of the proposed plan provision and the merits of the reasons for removing the issue from consideration. 


(d) *Remaining issues.* The issues considered at the hearing are limited to those issues of which the State is notified as provided in § 430.70 and paragraph (a) of this section, and new or modified issues described in paragraph (b) of this section. They do not include issues or parts of issues removed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. 




