# § 63.11176   What reports must I submit?

(a) *Annual notification of changes report.* If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping, motor vehicle or mobile equipment, or miscellaneous surface coating affected source, you are required to submit a report in each calendar year in which information previously submitted in either the initial notification required by § 63.11175(a), Notification of Compliance, or a previous annual notification of changes report submitted under this paragraph, has changed. Deviations from the relevant requirements in § 63.11173(a) through (d) or § 63.11173(e) through (g) on the date of the report will be deemed to be a change. This includes notification when paint stripping affected sources that have not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) used more than one ton of MeCl in the previous calendar year. The annual notification of changes report must be submitted prior to March 1 of each calendar year when reportable changes have occurred and must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.


(1) Your company's name and the street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different.


(2) The name, title, address, telephone, e-mail address (if available) and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart or an explanation of any noncompliance and a description of corrective actions being taken to achieve compliance.


(b) If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping affected source that has not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) of this subpart, you must submit a report for any calendar year in which you use more than one ton of MeCl. This report must be submitted no later than March 1 of the following calendar year. You must also develop and implement a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) no later than December 31. You must then submit a Notification of Compliance Status report containing the information specified in § 63.11175(b) by March 1 of the following year and comply with the requirements for paint stripping operations that annually use more than one ton of MeCl in §§ 63.11173(d) and 63.11177(f).


(c) On and after May 9, 2023, the owner or operator shall submit the Annual Notification of Changes Report required in paragraph (a) of this section and the MeCl report required in paragraph (b) of this section to the EPA via CEDRI (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov*)). The owner or operator must upload to CEDRI an electronic copy of each applicable report in PDF. The applicable report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI shall submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium to the EPA. The electronic medium shall be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations Sector Lead, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted shall be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(d) If you are required to electronically submit a report through the CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, and due to a planned or actual outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due, you will be or are precluded from accessing CEDRI or CDX and submitting a required report within the time prescribed, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying the date, time and length of the outage; provide to the Administrator a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the EPA system outage; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved. The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(e) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX and a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due, the owner or operator may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (e.g., large scale power outage). If you intend to assert a claim of *force majeure,* you must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or caused a delay in reporting. You must provide to the Administrator a written description of the *force majeure* event and a rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event; describe the measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and identify a date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported. In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs. The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.



---

[N] [73 FR 1759, Jan. 9, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 67805, Nov. 10, 2022]






