# § 1.864(c)(8)-2   Notification and reporting requirements.

(a) *Notification by foreign transferor*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a notifying transferor that transfers an interest in a specified partnership must notify the partnership of the transfer in writing within 30 days after the transfer. The notification must include—


(i) The names and addresses of the notifying transferor and the transferee or transferees;


(ii) The U.S. taxpayer identification number (TIN) of the notifying transferor and, if known, of the transferee or transferees; and


(iii) The date of the transfer.


(2) *Exceptions*—(i) *Certain interests in publicly traded partnerships.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a notifying transferor that transfers an interest in a publicly traded partnership if the interest is publicly traded on an established securities market or is readily tradable on a secondary market (or the substantial equivalent thereof).


(ii) *Certain distributions.* Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a notifying transferor that is treated as transferring an interest in a specified partnership because it received a distribution from that specified partnership.


(3) *Section 6050K.* The notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be combined with or provided at the same time as the notification described in § 1.6050K-1(d), provided that it satisfies the requirements of both sections.


(4) *Other guidance.* The notification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must also include any information prescribed by the Commissioner in forms or instructions or in publications or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see §§ 601.601(d)(2) and 601.602 of this chapter).


(b) *Reporting by specified partnerships with notifying transferor*—(1) *In general*—(i) *Requirement to provide statement.* A specified partnership must provide to a notifying transferor the statement described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section if—


(A) The partnership receives the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, or otherwise has actual knowledge that there has been a transfer of an interest in the partnership by a notifying transferor; and


(B) At the time of the transfer, the notifying transferor would have had a distributive share of deemed sale EC gain or deemed sale EC loss within the meaning of § 1.864(c)(8)-1(c).


(ii) *Distributions.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, a specified partnership that is a transferee because it makes a distribution is treated as having actual knowledge of that transfer.


(2) *Contents of statement.* The statement required to be furnished by the specified partnership under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include—


(i) The items described in § 1.864(c)(8)-1(c)(3)(ii) (foreign transferor's aggregate deemed sale EC items, which includes items derived from lower-tier partnerships);


(ii) Whether the items described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section were determined (in whole or in part) under § 1.864(c)(8)-1(c)(2)(ii)(E) (material change in circumstances rule for determining deemed sale EC gain or deemed sale EC loss from a deemed sale of the partnership's inventory property or intangibles); and


(iii) Any other information as may be prescribed by the Commissioner in forms, instructions, publications, or guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see §§ 601.601(d)(2) and 601.602 of this chapter).


(3) *Time for furnishing statement.* The specified partnership must furnish the required information on or before the due date (with extensions) for issuing Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), *Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,* or other statement required to be furnished under § 1.6031(b)-1T, to the notifying transferor for the year of the transfer. *See* § 1.6031(b)-1T(b).


(4) *Manner of furnishing statement.* The statement required to be furnished under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be provided on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), *Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.,* or other statement required to be furnished under § 1.6031(b)-1T.


(5) *Partnership notifying transferor.* For purposes of this paragraph (b), a specified partnership must treat a notifying transferor that is a partnership as a nonresident alien individual.


(c) *Statement may be provided to agent.* A specified partnership may provide a statement required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to a person other than the notifying transferor if the person is described in § 1.6031(b)-1T(c).


(d) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Notifying transferor.* The term *notifying transferor* means any foreign person, any domestic partnership that has a foreign person as a direct partner, and any domestic partnership that has actual knowledge that a foreign person indirectly holds, through one or more partnerships, an interest in the domestic partnership.


(2) *Specified partnership.* The term *specified partnership* means a partnership that is engaged in a trade or business within the United States or that owns (directly or indirectly) an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a trade or business within the United States.


(3) *Transfer.* The term *transfer* has the meaning provided in § 1.864(c)(8)-1(g)(5).


(e) *Applicability dates.* Paragraph (a) of this section applies to transfers that occur on or after November 30, 2020. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to returns filed on or after November 30, 2020. Paragraph (d) of this section applies beginning on November 30, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 9926, 85 FR 76931, Nov. 30, 2020]










