# § 63.3951   How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.3892 and 63.3893, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use, magnet wire, rubber-to-metal, and extreme performance fluoropolymer coating operation unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.3890(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.3890(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coating operation for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option. If you use coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site, the amount of each used in a month may be reduced by the amount of each that is reclaimed. That is, the amount used may be calculated as the amount consumed to account for materials that are reclaimed. 


(a) *Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each material.* Determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.3941(a). 


(b) *Determine the volume fraction of coating solids.* Determine the volume fraction of coating solids (liter (gal) of coating solids per liter (gal) of coating) for each coating used during each month according to the requirements in § 63.3941(b). 


(c) *Determine the density of each material.* Determine the density of each liquid coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month from test results using ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015) (both incorporated by reference, *see* § 63.14), information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, or reference sources providing density or specific gravity data for pure materials. If you are including powder coatings in the compliance determination, determine the density of powder coatings, using ASTM D5965-02 (Reapproved 2013) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 63.14), or information from the supplier. If there is disagreement between ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM D2111-10 (Reapproved 2015) test results and other such information sources, the test results will take precedence unless, after consultation you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct. If you purchase materials or monitor consumption by weight instead of volume, you do not need to determine material density. Instead, you may use the material weight in place of the combined terms for density and volume in Equations 1A, 1B, 1C, and 2 of this section.


(d) *Determine the volume of each material used.* Determine the volume (liters) of each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material used during each month by measurement or usage records. If you purchase materials or monitor consumption by weight instead of volume, you do not need to determine the volume of each material used. Instead, you may use the material weight in place of the combined terms for density and volume in Equations 1A, 1B, and 1C of this section. 


(e) *Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.* The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used during each month minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions using Equation 1 of this section.


(1) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A of this section: 


(2) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinners and/or other additives used during the month using Equation 1B of this section: 


(3) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the month using Equation 1C of this section: 


(4) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine the mass according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(i) You may only include waste materials in the determination that are generated by coating operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater. 


(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the month or the amount collected and stored during the month and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a month if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that month or a previous month.


(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.


(iv) You must document the methodology you use to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in § 63.3930(h). If waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.


(f) *Calculate the total volume of coating solids used.* Determine the total volume of coating solids used, liters, which is the combined volume of coating solids for all the coatings used during each month, using Equation 2 of this section: 


(g) *Calculate the organic HAP emission rate.* Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period, kg (lb) organic HAP emitted per liter (gal) coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section: 


(h) *Compliance demonstration.* The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period calculated using Equation 3 of this section must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit for each subcategory in § 63.3890 or the predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit allowed in § 63.3890(c). You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.3930 and 63.3931. As part of the notification of compliance status required by § 63.3910, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, determined according to the procedures in this section. 



---

[N] [69 FR 157, Jan. 2, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41141, July 8, 2020]




