# § 210.43   Petitions for review of initial determinations on matters other than temporary relief.

(a) *Filing of the petition.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, any party to an investigation may request Commission review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a) or (c), § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(a)(3) by filing a petition with the Secretary. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(1) and a petition for review of any sanctions order issued under § 210.25(d) must be filed within twelve (12) days after service of the initial determination or order. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(3) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.42(c) that terminates the investigation in its entirety on summary determination, or an initial determination issued under § 210.42(a)(2), § 210.50(d)(3), § 210.70(c), or § 210.75(a)(3), must be filed within ten (10) days after service of the initial determination. Petitions for review of all other initial determinations under § 210.42(c) must be filed within five (5) business days after service of the initial determination. A petition for review of an initial determination issued under § 210.50(d)(3) or § 210.70(c) must be filed within ten (10) days after service of the initial determination.


(2) A party may not petition for review of any issue as to which the party has been found to be in default. Similarly, a party or proposed respondent who did not file a response to the motion addressed in the initial determination may be deemed to have consented to the relief requested and may not petition for review of the issues raised in the motion. 


(b) *Content of the petition.* (1) A petition for review filed under this section shall identify the party seeking review and shall specify the issues upon which review of the initial determination is sought, and shall, with respect to each such issue, specify one or more of the following grounds upon which review is sought: 


(i) That a finding or conclusion of material fact is clearly erroneous; 


(ii) That a legal conclusion is erroneous, without governing precedent, rule or law, or constitutes an abuse of discretion; or 


(iii) That the determination is one affecting Commission policy. 


(2) The petition for review must set forth a concise statement of the facts material to the consideration of the stated issues, and must present a concise argument providing the reasons that review by the Commission is necessary or appropriate to resolve an important issue of fact, law, or policy. If a petition filed under this paragraph exceeds 50 pages in length, it must be accompanied by a summary of the petition not to exceed ten pages. Petitions for review may not exceed 100 pages in length, exclusive of the summary and any exhibits. Petitions for review may not incorporate statements, issues, or arguments by reference. Any issue not raised in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned by the petitioning party and may be disregarded by the Commission in reviewing the initial determination (unless the Commission chooses to review the issue on its own initiative under § 210.44), and any argument not relied on in a petition for review will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.


(3) Any petition designated by the petitioner as a “contingent” petition for review shall be deemed to be a petition under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and shall be processed accordingly. In order to preserve an issue for review by the Commission or the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit that was decided adversely to a party, the issue must be raised in a petition for review, whether or not the Commission's determination on the ultimate issue, such as a violation of section 337, was decided adversely to the party.


(4) A party's failure to file a petition for review of an initial determination shall constitute abandonment of all issues decided adversely to that party in the initial determination. 


(5) *Service of petition.* All petitions for review of an initial determination shall be served on the other parties by messenger, overnight delivery, or equivalent means.


(c) *Responses to the petition.* Any party may file a response within eight (8) days after service of a petition of a final initial determination under § 210.42(a)(1), and within five (5) business days after service of all other types of petitions, except that a party who has been found to be in default may not file a response to any issue as to which the party has defaulted. If a response to a petition for review filed under this paragraph exceeds 50 pages in length, it must be accompanied by a summary of the response not to exceed ten pages. Responses to petitions for review may not exceed 100 pages in length, exclusive of the summary and any exhibits. Responses to petitions for review may not incorporate statements, issues, or arguments by reference. Any argument not relied on in a response will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission.


(d) *Grant or denial of review.* (1) The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(2) or § 210.42(c), which grants a motion for summary determination that would terminate the investigation in its entirety if it becomes the final determination of the Commission, § 210.50(d)(3), or § 210.70(c) within 45 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order. The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(a)(3) within 30 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order. The Commission shall decide whether to grant, in whole or in part, a petition for review of an initial determination filed pursuant to § 210.42(c), except as noted above, within 30 days after the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order.


(2) The Commission shall decide whether to grant a petition for review, based upon the petition and response thereto, without oral argument or further written submissions unless the Commission shall order otherwise. A petition will be granted and review will be ordered if it appears that an error or abuse of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is present or if the petition raises a policy matter connected with the initial determination, which the Commission thinks it necessary or appropriate to address. 


(3) The Commission shall grant a petition for review and order review of an initial determination or certain issues therein when at least one of the participating Commissioners votes for ordering review. In its notice, the Commission shall establish the scope of the review and the issues that will be considered and make provisions for filing of briefs and oral argument if deemed appropriate by the Commission.



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 59 FR 67628, Dec. 30, 1994; 60 FR 53120, Oct. 12, 1995; 73 FR 38325, July 7, 2008; 78 FR 23484, Apr. 19, 2013; 83 FR 21162, May 8, 2018; 90 FR 246, Jan. 3, 2025]




