# § 412.620   Patient classification system.

(a) *Classification methodology.* (1) A patient classification system is used to classify patients in inpatient rehabilitation facilities into mutually exclusive case-mix groups. 


(2) For purposes of this subpart, case-mix groups are classes of Medicare patient discharges by functional-related groups that are based on a patient's impairment, age, comorbidities, functional capabilities, and other factors that may improve the ability of the functional-related groups to estimate variations in resource use. 


(3) Data from admission assessments under § 412.610(c)(1) are used to classify a Medicare patient into an appropriate case-mix group. 


(4) Data from the discharge assessment under § 412.610(c)(2) are used to determine the weighting factors under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. 


(b) *Weighting factors*—(1) *General.* An appropriate weight is assigned to each case-mix group that measures the relative difference in facility resource intensity among the various case-mix groups. 


(2) *Short-stay outliers.* We will determine a weighting factor or factors for patients that are discharged and not transferred (as defined in § 412.602) within a number of days from admission as specified by us. 


(3) *Patients who expire.* We will determine a weighting factor or factors for patients who expire within a number of days from admission as specified by us. 


(4) *Comorbidities.* We will determine a weighting factor or factors to account for the presence of a comorbidity, as defined in § 412.602, that is relevant to resource use in the classification system. 


(c) *Revision of case-mix group classifications and weighting factors.* We may periodically adjust the case-mix groups and weighting factors to reflect changes in— 


(1) Treatment patterns; 


(2) Technology; 


(3) Number of discharges; and 


(4) Other factors affecting the relative use of resources. 




