# § 63.3167   How do I establish the add-on control device operating limits during performance tests?

During the performance tests required by §§ 63.3160, 63.3163, and 63.3171 (and described in §§ 63.3164 and 63.3166), you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.3093 according to this section, unless you have received approval for alternative monitoring and operating limits under § 63.8(f) as specified in § 63.3093.


(a) *Thermal oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a thermal oxidizer, establish the operating limit according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. You must monitor the temperature in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs. 


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test. This average combustion temperature is the minimum 3-hour average operating limit for your thermal oxidizer.


(3) As an alternative, if the latest operating permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the thermal oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the combustion temperature that are consistent with the requirements for thermal oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limit for the combustion temperature for each such thermal oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average combustion temperature during the performance test of that thermal oxidizer. If you do not have an operating permit for the thermal oxidizer at your facility and the latest construction permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the thermal oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the combustion temperature that are consistent with the requirements for thermal oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limit for the combustion temperature for each such thermal oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average combustion temperature during the performance test of that thermal oxidizer. If you use 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the combustion temperature maintained during the performance test as the minimum operating limit for a thermal oxidizer, then you must keep the combustion temperature set point on that thermal oxidizer no lower than 14 degrees Celsius (25 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that thermal oxidizer and the average combustion temperature maintained during the performance test for that thermal oxidizer. 


(b) *Catalytic oxidizers.* If your add-on control device is a catalytic oxidizer, establish the operating limits according to either paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) or paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section.


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed and the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test. The minimum 3-hour average operating limits for your catalytic oxidizer are the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer and 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer, except during periods of low production, the latter minimum operating limit is to maintain a positive temperature gradient across the catalyst bed. A low production period is when production is less than 80 percent of production rate during the performance test of that catalytic oxidizer.


(3) As an alternative, if the latest operating permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the temperature before the catalyst bed that are consistent with the requirements for catalytic oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limits for each such catalytic oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer and 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer, except during periods of low production the latter minimum operating limit is to maintain a positive temperature gradient across the catalyst bed. If you do not have an operating permit for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility and the latest construction permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the temperature before the catalyst bed that are consistent with the requirements for catalytic oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limits for each such catalytic oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer and 80 percent of the average temperature difference across the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer, except during periods of low production the latter minimum operating limit is to maintain a positive temperature gradient across the catalyst bed. A low production period is when production is less than 80 percent of production rate during the performance test. If you use 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test as the minimum operating limits for a catalytic oxidizer, then you must keep the set point for the temperature just before the catalyst bed on that catalytic oxidizer no lower than 14 degrees Celsius (25 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer and the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer. 


(4) As an alternative to monitoring the temperature difference across the catalyst bed, you may monitor the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed and implement a site-specific inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. During the performance test, you must monitor and record the temperature just before the catalyst bed at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average temperature just before the catalyst bed during the performance test. This is the minimum operating limit for your catalytic oxidizer. 


(5) If the latest operating permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the temperature before the catalyst bed that are consistent with the requirements for catalytic oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limit for each such catalytic oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer. If you do not have an operating permit for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility and the latest construction permit issued before April 26, 2007, for the catalytic oxidizer at your facility contains recordkeeping and reporting requirements for the temperature before the catalyst bed that are consistent with the requirements for catalytic oxidizers in 40 CFR 60.395(c), then you may set the minimum operating limit for each such catalytic oxidizer at your affected source at 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer. If you use 28 degrees Celsius (50 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test as the minimum operating limit for a catalytic oxidizer, then you must keep the set point for the temperature just before the catalyst bed on that catalytic oxidizer no lower than 14 degrees Celsius (25 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer and the average temperature just before the catalyst bed maintained during the performance test for that catalytic oxidizer.


(6) You must develop and implement an inspection and maintenance plan for your catalytic oxidizer(s) for which you elect to monitor according to paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section. The plan must address, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Annual sampling and analysis of the catalyst activity (*i.e.*, conversion efficiency) following the manufacturer's or catalyst supplier's recommended procedures. If problems are found during the catalyst activity test, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations.


(ii) Monthly external inspection of the catalytic oxidizer system, including the burner assembly and fuel supply lines for problems and, as necessary, adjust the equipment to assure proper air-to-fuel mixtures.


(iii) Annual internal inspection of the catalyst bed to check for channeling, abrasion, and settling. If problems are found during the annual internal inspection of the catalyst, you must replace the catalyst bed or take other corrective action consistent with the manufacturer's recommendations. If the catalyst bed is replaced and is not of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, then you must conduct a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency according to § 63.3166. If a catalyst bed is replaced and the replacement catalyst is of like or better kind and quality as the old catalyst, then a new performance test to determine destruction efficiency is not required and you may continue to use the previously established operating limits for that catalytic oxidizer.


(c) *Regenerative carbon adsorbers.* If your add-on control device is a regenerative carbon adsorber, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) You must monitor and record the total regeneration desorbing gas (*e.g.,* steam or nitrogen) mass flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each carbon bed regeneration and cooling cycle for the regeneration cycle either immediately preceding or immediately following the performance test. 


(2) The operating limits for your carbon adsorber are the minimum total desorbing gas mass flow recorded during the regeneration cycle and the maximum carbon bed temperature recorded after the cooling cycle. 


(d) *Condensers.* If your add-on control device is a condenser, establish the operating limits according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs. 


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average condenser outlet (product side) gas temperature maintained during the performance test. This average condenser outlet gas temperature is the maximum 3-hour average operating limit for your condenser. 


(e) *Concentrators.* If your add-on control device includes a concentrator, you must establish operating limits for the concentrator according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2)of this section. 


(1) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the desorption gas inlet temperature at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three runs of the performance test. 


(2) Use all valid data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average desorption gas inlet temperature. The minimum operating limit for the concentrator is 8 degrees Celsius (15 degrees Fahrenheit) below the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator. You must keep the set point for the desorption gas inlet temperature no lower than 6 degrees Celsius (10 degrees Fahrenheit) below the lower of that set point during the performance test for that concentrator and the average desorption gas inlet temperature maintained during the performance test for that concentrator. 


(f) *Emission capture systems.* For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.3165(a) and that is not capturing emissions from a downdraft spray booth or from a flash-off area or bake oven associated with a downdraft spray booth, establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 1 to this subpart. 


(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by §§ 63.3160 and 63.3163 and described in §§ 63.3164 and 63.3165, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate capture device in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the capture device and the add-on control device inlet.


(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device, using all valid data. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device.



---

[N] [69 FR 22623, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 72 FR 20235, Apr. 24, 2007; 85 FR 41132, July 8, 2020]




