# § 930.23   Nomination and election.

(a) *Forms and ballots.* Nomination and election of initial and successor members and alternate members of the Board shall be conducted through petition forms and election ballots distributed to all eligible growers and handlers via the U.S. Postal Service or other means, as determined by the Secretary. Similar petition forms and election ballots shall be used for both members and alternate members and any requirements for election of a member shall apply to the election of an alternate.


(b) *Nomination.* (1) In order for the name of a grower nominee to appear on an election ballot, the nominee's name must be submitted with a petition form, to be supplied by the Secretary or the Board, which, except in District 8, contains at least five signatures of growers, other than the nominee, from the nominee's district who are eligible to vote in the referendum. Grower petition forms in District 8 must be signed by only two growers, other than the nominee, from the nominee's district.


(2) In order for the name of a handler nominee to appear on an election ballot, the nominee's name must be submitted with a petition form, to be supplied by the Secretary or the Board, which contains the signature of one or more handler(s), other than the nominee, from the nominee's district who is or are eligible to vote in the election and that handle(s) a combined total of no less than five percent (5%) of the average production, as that term is used § 930.20, handled in the district. *Provided,* that this requirement shall not apply if its application would result in a sales constituency conflict as provided in § 930.20(g). The requirement that the petition form be signed by a handler other than the nominee shall not apply in any district where fewer than two handlers are eligible to vote.


(3) Only growers, including duly authorized officers or employees of growers, who are eligible to serve as grower members of the Board shall participate in the nomination of grower members and alternate grower members of the Board. No grower shall participate in the submission of nominees in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a grower produces cherries in more than one district, that grower may select in which district he or she wishes to participate in the nominations and election process and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection. A grower may not participate in the nomination process in one district and the election process in a second district in the same election cycle.


(4) Only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, who are eligible to serve as handler members of the Board shall participate in the nomination of handler members and alternate handler members of the Board. No handler shall participate in the selection of nominees in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a handler handles cherries in more than one district, that handler may select in which district he or she wishes to participate in the nominations and election process and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection. A handler may not participate in the nominations process in one district and the elections process in a second district in the same election cycle. If a person is a grower and a grower-handler only because some or all of his or her cherries were custom packed, but he or she does not own or lease and operate a processing facility, such person may vote only as a grower.


(5) In districts entitled to only one Board member, both growers and handlers may be nominated for the district's Board seat. Grower and handler nominations must follow the petition procedures outlined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(6) All eligible growers and handlers in all districts may submit the names of the nominees for the public member and alternate public member of the Board.


(7) After the appointment of the initial Board, the Secretary or the Board shall announce at least 180 days in advance when a Board member's term is expiring and shall solicit nominations for that position in the manner described in this section. Nominations for such position should be submitted to the Secretary or the Board not less than 120 days prior to the expiration of such term.


(c) *Election.* (1) After receiving nominations, the Secretary or the Board shall distribute ballots via the U.S. Postal Service or other means, as determined by the Secretary, to all eligible growers and handlers containing the names of the nominees by district for the respective seats on the Board, excluding the public voting member seat. The ballots will clearly indicate that growers and handlers may only rank or otherwise vote for nominees in their own district.


(2) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, only growers, including duly authorized officers or employees of growers, who are eligible to serve as grower members of the Board shall participate in the election of grower members and alternate grower members of the Board. No grower shall participate in the election of Board members in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a grower produces cherries in more than one district, the grower must vote in the same district in which he or she chose to participate in the nominations process under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. However, if the grower did not participate in the nominations process, he or she may select in which district he or she wishes to vote and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection.


(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, only handlers, including duly authorized officers or employees of handlers, who are eligible to serve as handler members of the Board shall participate in the election of handler members and alternate handler members of the Board. No handler shall participate in the election of Board members in more than one district during any fiscal period. If a handler does handle cherries in more than one district, he or she must vote in the same district in which the handler elected to participate in the nominations process under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. However, if a handler did not participate in the nominations process, that handler may select in which district he or she chooses to vote and shall notify the Secretary or the Board of such selection. If a person is a grower and a grower-handler only because some or all of his or her cherries were custom packed, but he or she does not own or lease and operate a processing facility, such person may vote only as a grower.


(ii) To be seated as a handler representative in any district, the successful candidate must receive the support of handler(s) that handled a combined total of no less than five percent (5%), of the average production, as that term is used in § 930.20, handled in the district; *Provided,* that this paragraph shall not apply if its application would result in a sales constituency conflict as provided in § 930.20(g).


(4) In districts entitled to only one Board member, growers and handlers may vote for either the grower or handler nominee(s) for the single seat allocated to those districts.


(d) The members of the Board appointed by the Secretary pursuant to § 930.24 shall, at the first meeting and whenever necessary thereafter, by at least a two-thirds vote of the entire Board, select individuals to serve as the public member and alternate public member of the Board from the list of nominees received from growers and handlers pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section or from other persons nominated by the Board. The persons selected shall be subject to appointment by the Secretary under § 930.24.


(e) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish rules and regulations necessary and incidental to the administration of this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 49942, Sept. 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 33677, June 15, 2010]




