# § 433.318   Overpayments involving providers who are bankrupt or out of business.

(a) *Basic rules.* (1) The agency is not required to refund the Federal share of an overpayment made to a provider as required by § 433.312(a) to the extent that the State is unable to recover the overpayment because the provider has been determined bankrupt or out of business in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(2) The agency must notify the provider that an overpayment exists in any case involving a bankrupt or out-of-business provider and, if the debt has not been determined uncollectable, take reasonable actions to recover the overpayment during the 1-year recovery period in accordance with policies prescribed by applicable State law and administrative procedures.


(b) *Overpayment debts that the State need not refund.* Overpayments are considered debts that the State is unable to recover within the 1-year period following discovery if the following criteria are met:


(1) The provider has filed for bankruptcy, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section; or


(2) The provider has gone out of business and the State is unable to locate the provider and its assets, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Bankruptcy.* The agency is not required to refund to CMS the Federal share of an overpayment at the end of the 1-year period following discovery, if—


(1) The provider has filed for bankruptcy in Federal court at the time of discovery of the overpayment or the provider files a bankruptcy petition in Federal court before the end of the 1-year period following discovery; and


(2) The State is on record with the court as a creditor of the petitioner in the amount of the Medicaid overpayment.


(d) *Out of business.* (1) The agency is not required to refund to CMS the Federal share of an overpayment at the end of the 1-year period following discovery if the provider is out of business on the date of discovery of the overpayment or if the provider goes out of business before the end of the 1-year period following discovery.


(2) A provider is considered to be out of business on the effective date of a determination to that effect under State law. The agency must—


(i) Document its efforts to locate the party and its assets. These efforts must be consistent with applicable State policies and procedures; and


(ii) Make available an affidavit or certification from the appropriate State legal authority establishing that the provider is out of business and that the overpayment cannot be collected under State law and procedures and citing the effective date of that determination under State law.


(3) A provider is not out of business when ownershp is transferred within the State unless State law and procedures deem a provider that has transferred ownership to be out of business and preclude collection of the overpayment from the provider.


(e) *Circumstances requiring refunds.* If the 1-year recovery period has expired before an overpayment is found to be uncollectable under the provisions of this section, if the State recovers an overpayment amount under a court-approved discharge of bankruptcy, or if a bankruptcy petition is denied, the agency must refund the Federal share of the overpayment in accordance with the procedures specified in § 433.320 of this subpart.



---

[N] [54 FR 5460, Feb. 3, 1989; 54 FR 8435, Feb. 28, 1989, as amended at 77 FR 31512, May 29, 2012]




