# § 1005.739   Loss mitigation.

(a) The purpose of loss mitigation is to attempt to cure the Borrower's default and minimize financial loss to HUD.


(b) The Servicer must offer a loss mitigation option, if applicable, to the Borrower and if practical under the circumstances, within 180 days of the Date of Default, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance.


(c) Loss mitigation options include:


(1) A forbearance plan;


(2) Assumption;


(3) A loan modification;


(4) Loss mitigation advance;


(5) Pre-foreclosure sale;


(6) A deed-in-lieu/lease-in-lieu of foreclosure; or


(7) Other options, as may be prescribed in Section 184 Program Guidance.


(d) A loss mitigation review shall, to the greatest extent possible, be based on a full financial assessment of the Borrower at time of default, and the collection technique(s) must take into account the circumstances particular to each Borrower.


(e) HUD may prescribe conditions and requirements in Section 184 Program Guidance for the eligibility and appropriate use of loss mitigation options.


(f) Within 180 days of default, or any extended timeframe prescribed by Section 184 Guidance, if the Borrower fails to meet their loss mitigation option requirements, the Servicer shall have up to 45 days from the date of the failure of the loss mitigation to determine whether the Borrower should continue with the current loss mitigation option or have Borrower enter into an alternate loss mitigation option.


(g) If a Borrower does not accept, is not eligible for, or fails loss mitigation, the Servicer shall complete First Legal Action in accordance with § 1005.763 or Tribal First Right of Refusal in accordance with § 1005.759.


(h) Documentation must be maintained for the initial and all subsequent evaluations and resulting loss mitigation actions in the servicing case binder in accordance with § 1005.219(d)(2).


(i) A Servicer that is found to have failed to engage in and comply with loss mitigation as required under this subpart may be subject to enforcement action by HUD, including but not limited to sanctions under §§ 1005.905 and 1005.907.


(j) HUD may provide alternative requirements to this section when there is a national emergency or disaster and publish such alternative requirements in Section 184 Program Guidance.






