# § 96.212   Changing CAIR designated representative and alternate CAIR designated representative; changes in owners and operators.

(a) *Changing CAIR designated representative.* The CAIR designated representative may be changed at any time upon receipt by the Administrator of a superseding complete certificate of representation under § 96.213. Notwithstanding any such change, all representations, actions, inactions, and submissions by the previous CAIR designated representative before the time and date when the Administrator receives the superseding certificate of representation shall be binding on the new CAIR designated representative and the owners and operators of the CAIR SO_2_ source and the CAIR SO_2_ units at the source.


(b) *Changing alternate CAIR designated representative.* The alternate CAIR designated representative may be changed at any time upon receipt by the Administrator of a superseding complete certificate of representation under § 96.213. Notwithstanding any such change, all representations, actions, inactions, and submissions by the previous alternate CAIR designated representative before the time and date when the Administrator receives the superseding certificate of representation shall be binding on the new alternate CAIR designated representative and the owners and operators of the CAIR SO_2_ source and the CAIR SO_2_ units at the source.


(c) *Changes in owners and operators.* (1) In the event an owner or operator of a CAIR SO_2_ source or a CAIR SO_2_ unit is not included in the list of owners and operators in the certificate of representation under § 96.213, such owner or operator shall be deemed to be subject to and bound by the certificate of representation, the representations, actions, inactions, and submissions of the CAIR designated representative and any alternate CAIR designated representative of the source or unit, and the decisions and orders of the permitting authority, the Administrator, or a court, as if the owner or operator were included in such list.


(2) Within 30 days following any change in the owners and operators of a CAIR SO_2_ source or a CAIR SO_2_ unit, including the addition of a new owner or operator, the CAIR designated representative or any alternate CAIR designated representative shall submit a revision to the certificate of representation under § 96.213 amending the list of owners and operators to include the change. 



---

[N] [70 FR 25362, May 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 25388, Apr. 28, 2006]




