# § 155.1030   QHP certification standards related to advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reductions.

(a) *Review of plan variations for cost-sharing reductions.* (1) An Exchange must ensure that each issuer that offers, or intends to offer a health plan at any level of coverage in the individual market on the Exchange submits the required plan variations for the health plan as described in § 156.420 of this subchapter. The Exchange must certify that the plan variations meet the requirements of § 156.420.


(2) The Exchange must provide to HHS the actuarial values of each QHP and silver plan variation, calculated under § 156.135 of this subchapter, in the manner and timeframe established by HHS.


(b) *Information for administering advance payments of the premium tax credit and advance payments of cost-sharing reductions.* (1) The Exchange must collect and review annually the rate allocation and the actuarial memorandum that an issuer submits to the Exchange under § 156.470 of this subchapter, to ensure that the allocation meets the standards set forth in § 156.470(c) and (d) of this subchapter.


(2) The Exchange must submit, in the manner and timeframe established by HHS, to HHS the approved allocations and actuarial memorandum underlying the approved allocations for each health plan at any level of coverage or stand-alone dental plan offered, or intended to be offered in the individual market on the Exchange.


(3) The Exchange must use the methodology specified in the annual HHS notice of benefit and payment parameters to calculate advance payment amounts for cost-sharing reductions, and must transmit the advance payment amounts to HHS, in accordance with § 156.340(a) of this subchapter.


(4) HHS may use the information provided to HHS by the Exchange under this section for oversight of advance payments of cost-sharing reductions and premium tax credits.


(c) *Multi-State plans.* The U.S. Office of Personnel Management will ensure compliance with the standards referenced in this section for multi-State plans, as defined in § 155.1000(a).



---

[N] [78 FR 15534, Mar. 11, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 13839, Mar. 11, 2014]




