# § 235.12   Global Entry program.

(a) *Program description.* The Global Entry program is a voluntary international trusted traveler program consisting of an integrated passenger processing system that facilitates the movement of pre-approved, low-risk, air travelers by providing dedicated CBP processing at specified airports. In order to participate, a person must meet the eligibility requirements specified in this section, apply in advance, undergo vetting by CBP, and be accepted into the program. The Global Entry program allows participants dedicated CBP processing at selected airports identified by CBP at *www.cbp.gov.* Participants in the Global Entry program may also take advantage of certain benefits of the Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) and NEXUS programs. Please see *http://www.cbp.gov* for additional information. Participants will be processed through the use of CBP-approved technology that will include the use of biometrics to validate identity and to perform enforcement queries.




(b) *Program eligibility criteria*—(1) *Eligible individuals.* The following individuals, who hold a valid, machine-readable passport, a valid, machine-readable U.S. Lawful Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551), or other appropriate travel document as determined by CBP, may apply to participate in Global Entry:


(i) U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, and U.S. lawful permanent residents absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(ii) Certain nonimmigrant aliens from countries that have entered into arrangements with CBP concerning international trusted traveler programs absent any of the disqualifying factors described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and subject to the conditions set forth in the particular arrangement. Individuals from a country that has entered into such an arrangement with CBP may be eligible to apply for participation in Global Entry only after CBP announces the arrangement by publication of a notice in the _Federal Register._ The notice will include the country, the scope of eligibility of nonimmigrant aliens from that country (*e.g.,* whether only citizens of the foreign country or citizens and non-citizens are eligible) and other conditions that may apply based on the terms of the arrangement. CBP may change or terminate these arrangements without prior notice to the public, but will announce such actions as soon as practicable on *www.globalentry.gov* and by publication of a notice in the _Federal Register._

(iii) Persons under the age of 18 who meet the eligibility criteria of paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section must have the consent of a parent or legal guardian to participate in Global Entry and provide proof of such consent in accordance with CBP instructions.


(2) *Disqualifying factors.* An individual is ineligible to participate in Global Entry if CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the individual presents a potential risk for terrorism, criminality (such as smuggling), or is otherwise not a low-risk traveler. This risk determination will be based in part upon an applicant's ability to demonstrate past compliance with laws, regulations, and policies. Reasons why an applicant may not qualify for participation include:


(i) The applicant provides false or incomplete information on the application;


(ii) The applicant has been arrested for, or convicted of, any criminal offense or has pending criminal charges or outstanding warrants in any country;


(iii) The applicant has been found in violation of any customs, immigration, or agriculture regulations, procedures, or laws in any country;


(iv) The applicant is the subject of an investigation by any federal, state, or local law enforcement agency in any country;


(v) The applicant is inadmissible to the United States under applicable immigration laws or has, at any time, been granted a waiver of inadmissibility or parole;


(vi) The applicant is known or suspected of being or having been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism; or


(vii) The applicant cannot satisfy CBP of his or her low-risk status or meet other program requirements.


(c) *Participating airports.* The Global Entry program allows participants dedicated CBP processing at the locations identified at *www.cbp.gov.* Expansions of the Global Entry program to new airports will be announced by publication in the _Federal Register_ and at *www.cbp.gov.*

(d) *Program application.* (1) Each applicant must complete and submit the program application electronically through an approved application process as determined by CBP. The application and application instructions for the Global Entry program are available at *www.globalentry.gov.*

(2) Except for certain minors, all applicants must pay the non-refundable fee in the amount set forth at 8 CFR 103.7(d)(13) for “Global Entry.” Minors under the age of 18 who apply to the Global Entry program concurrently with a parent or legal guardian, or whose parent or legal guardian is already a participant of Global Entry, are exempt from payment of the applicable fee. The fee is to be paid to CBP at the time of application through the online TTP System, which can be found through *www.cbp.gov,* or other CBP-approved process.




(3) Every applicant accepted into Global Entry is accepted for a period of 5 years provided participation is not terminated by CBP prior to the end of the 5-year period. Each applicant may apply to renew participation up to one year prior to the close of the participation period.




(4) Each applicant may check the status of his or her application through his or her account with the application system in use for Global Entry.


(e) *Interview and enrollment.* (1) After submitting the application, conditionally approved applicants will be notified by CBP that they need to undergo a personal interview.

(2) Each applicant must bring to the interview with CBP the original of the identification document specified in his or her application. During the interview, CBP will collect biometric information from the applicant (*e.g.,* a set of ten fingerprints and/or digital photograph) to conduct background checks or as otherwise required for participation in the program.


(3) CBP may provide for alternative enrollment procedures, as necessary, to facilitate enrollment and ensure an applicant's eligibility for the program.


(f) *Valid machine-readable passport or valid lawful permanent resident card.* Each participant must possess a valid, machine-readable passport, a valid, machine-readable U.S. Lawful Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551), or other appropriate travel document as determined by CBP.


(g) *Arrival procedures.* In order to utilize the Global Entry program, each participant must:


(1) Proceed to Global Entry Processing and follow all CBP instructions; and


(2) Proceed to the nearest open primary inspection station if CBP determines it is appropriate.




(h) *Application for entry, examination, and inspection.* Each successful use of Global Entry constitutes a separate and completed inspection and application for entry by the participant on the date that Global Entry is used. Global Entry participants may be subject to further CBP examination and inspection at any time during the arrival process.




(i) *Pilot participant enrollment.* Upon implementation of the Global Entry Program, participants in the Global Entry pilot will be automatically enrolled in the Global Entry Program for 5 years from the date of enrollment in the pilot.


(j) *Denial and removal.* (1) If an applicant is denied participation in Global Entry, CBP will notify the applicant of the denial, and the reasons for the denial. CBP will also provide instructions regarding how to proceed if the applicant wishes to seek additional information as to the reason for the denial.


(2) A Global Entry participant may be removed from the program for any of the following reasons:




(i) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has engaged in any disqualifying activities under the Global Entry program as outlined in § 235.12(b)(2);


(ii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant provided false information in the application and/or during the application process;


(iii) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant failed to follow the terms, conditions and requirements of the program;


(iv) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that the participant has been arrested or convicted of a crime or otherwise no longer meets the program eligibility criteria; or


(v) CBP, at its sole discretion, determines that such action is otherwise necessary.


(3) CBP will notify the participant of his or her suspension or removal in writing. Such suspension or removal is effective immediately.


(4) An applicant or participant denied or removed will not receive a refund, in whole or in part, of his or her application processing fee.




(k) *Redress.* An individual whose application is denied or who is removed from the program has two possible methods of redress. These processes do not create or confer any legal right, privilege or benefit on the applicant or participant, and are wholly discretionary on the part of CBP. The methods of redress are:


(1) *DHS Traveler Redress Inquiry Program (DHS TRIP).* The applicant/participant may choose to initiate the redress process through DHS Traveler Redress Program (DHS TRIP). An applicant/participant seeking redress may obtain the necessary forms and information to initiate the process on the DHS TRIP website, or by contacting DHS TRIP by mail at the address on the DHS TRIP website.


(2) *Ombudsman.* Applicants (including applicants who were not scheduled for an interview at an enrollment center) and participants may contest a denial or removal by submitting a reconsideration request to the CBP Trusted Traveler Ombudsman through the online TTP System or other CBP-approved process.





---

[N] [77 FR 5690, Feb. 6, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 46926, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 22628, Apr. 2, 2024]




