# § 49.172   Final permit issuance and administrative and judicial review.

(a) *How will final action occur and when will my permit become effective?* After making a decision on a permit, the reviewing authority must notify you of the decision, in writing and if the permit is denied, provide the reasons for such denial and the procedures for appeal. If the reviewing authority issues a final permit to you, it must make a copy of the permit available at any location where the draft permit was made available. In addition, the reviewing authority must provide adequate public notice of the final permit decision to ensure that the affected community, general public and any individuals who commented on the draft permit have reasonable access to the decision and supporting materials. A final permit becomes effective 30 days after service of notice of the final permit decision, unless:


(1) A later effective date is specified in the permit or


(2) Review of the final permit is requested under paragraph (d) of this section (in which case the specific terms and conditions of the permit that are the subject of the request for review must be stayed) or


(3) The draft permit was subjected to a public comment period and no comments requested a change in the draft permit or a denial of the permit, in which case the reviewing authority may make the permit effective immediately upon issuance.


(b) *For how long will the reviewing authority retain my permit-related records?* The records, including any required applications for each draft and final permit or application for permit revision, must be kept by the reviewing authority for not less than 5 years.


(c) *What is the administrative record for each final permit?*

(1) The reviewing authority must base final permit decisions on an administrative record consisting of:


(i) All comments received during any public comment period, including any extension or reopening;


(ii) The tape or transcript of any hearing(s) held;


(iii) Any written material submitted at such a hearing;


(iv) Any new materials placed in the record as a result of the reviewing authority's evaluation of public comments;


(v) Other documents in the supporting files for the permit that were relied upon in the decision-making;


(vi) The final permit;


(vii) The application and any supporting data furnished by you, the permit applicant;


(viii) The draft permit or notice of intent to deny the application or to terminate the permit and


(ix) Other documents in the supporting files for the draft permit that were relied upon in the decision-making.


(2) The additional documents required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section should be added to the record as soon as possible after their receipt or publication by the reviewing authority. The record must be complete on the date the final permit is issued.


(3) Material readily available or published materials that are generally available and that are included in the administrative record under the standards of paragraph (c)(1) of this section need not be physically included in the same file as the rest of the record as long as it is specifically referred to in that file.


(d) *Can permit decisions be appealed?* (1) Permit decisions may be appealed under the permit appeal procedures of 40 CFR 124.19.


(2) An appeal under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is, under section 307(b) of the Act, a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of the final agency action.


(e) *Can my permit be reopened?* The reviewing authority may reopen an existing, currently-in-effect permit for cause on its own initiative, such as if it contains a material mistake or fails to assure compliance with applicable requirements. However, except for those permit reopenings that do not increase the emissions limitations in the permit, such as permit reopenings that correct typographical, calculation and other errors, all other permit reopenings shall be carried out after the opportunity of public notice and comment and in accordance with one or more of the public participation requirements under § 49.171(b)(1)(ii).


(f) *Can my permit be rescinded?* (1) Any permit issued under this section or a prior version of this section shall remain in effect until it is rescinded under this paragraph (f).


(2) An owner or operator of a stationary source or modification who holds a permit issued under this section for the construction of a new source or modification that meets the requirement in paragraph (f)(3) of this section may request that the reviewing authority rescind the permit or a particular portion of the permit.


(3) The reviewing authority may grant an application for rescission if the application shows that §§ 49.166 through 49.173 would not apply to the source or modification.


(4) If the reviewing authority rescinds a permit under this paragraph (f), the public shall be given adequate notice of the rescission determination in accordance with one or more of the following methods:


(i) The reviewing authority may mail or email a copy of the notice to persons on a mailing list developed by the reviewing authority consisting of those persons who have requested to be placed on such a mailing list.


(ii) The reviewing authority may post the notice on its Web site.


(iii) The reviewing authority may publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the source. Where possible, the notice may also be published in a Tribal newspaper or newsletter.


(iv) The reviewing authority may provide copies of the notice for posting at one or more locations in the area affected by the source, such as Post Offices, trading posts, libraries, Tribal environmental offices, community centers or other gathering places in the community.


(v) The reviewing authority may employ other means of notification as appropriate.



---

[N] [76 FR 38802, July 1, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 78048, Nov. 7, 2016; 85 FR 51656, Aug. 21, 2020]




