# § 98.116   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, as applicable:


(a) Annual facility ferroalloy product production capacity (tons).


(b) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, report the annual production for each ferroalloy product identified in § 98.110, from each EAF (tons).


(c) Total number of EAFs at facility used for production of ferroalloy products.


(d) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.


(1) Annual process CO_2_ emissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy product identified in § 98.110.


(2) Annual process CH_4_ emissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy listed in Table K-1 of this subpart (metric tons).


(3) Identification number of each EAF.


(e) If a CEMS is not used to measure CO_2_ process emissions, and the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.113(b), then you must report the following information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(7) of this section.


(1) Annual process CO_2_ emissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy identified in § 98.110 (metric tons).


(2) Annual process CH_4_ emissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy listed in Table K-1 of this subpart.


(3) Identification number for each material.


(4)-(5) [Reserved]


(6) List the method used for the determination of carbon content for each material included for the calculation of annual process CO_2_ emissions for each EAF (*e.g.,* supplier provided information, analyses of representative samples you collected).


(7) If you use the missing data procedures in § 98.115(b), you must report how monthly mass of carbon-containing inputs and outputs with missing data was determined and the number of months the missing data procedures were used.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66462, Oct. 28, 2010; 78 FR 71954, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63785, Oct. 24, 2014]




