# § 510.600   Waiver of direct supervision requirement for certain post-discharge home visits.

(a) *General.* CMS waives the requirement in § 410.26(b)(5) of this chapter that services and supplies furnished incident to a physician's service must be furnished under the direct supervision of the physician (or other practitioner) to permit home visits as specified in this section. The services furnished under this waiver are not considered to be “hospital services,” even when furnished by the clinical staff of the hospital.


(b) *General supervision of qualified personnel.* The waiver of the direct supervision requirement in § 410.26(b)(5) of this chapter applies only in the following circumstances:


(1) The home visit is furnished during the episode to a beneficiary who has been discharged from an anchor hospitalization or anchor procedure.


(2) The home visit is furnished at the beneficiary's home or place of residence.


(3) The beneficiary does not qualify for home health services under sections 1835(a) and 1814(a) of the Act at the time of any such home visit.


(4) The visit is furnished by clinical staff under the general supervision of a physician or non-physician practitioner. Clinical staff are individuals who work under the supervision of a physician or other qualified health care professional, and who are allowed by law, regulation, and facility policy to perform or assist in the performance of a specific professional service, but do not individually report that professional service.


(5) No more than 9 visits are furnished to the beneficiary during the episode.


(c) *Payment.* Up to 9 post-discharge home visits per CJR episode may be billed under Part B by the physician or nonphysician practitioner or by the participant hospital to which the supervising physician has reassigned his or her billing rights.


(d)* Other requirements.* All other Medicare rules for coverage and payment of services incident to a physician's service continue to apply.



---

[N] [80 FR 73540, Nov. 24, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 23575, May 3, 2021]




