# § 622.278   Commercial trip limits.

Commercial trip limits are limits on the amount of Atlantic dolphin and wahoo that may be possessed on board or landed, purchased, or sold from a vessel per day. A person who fishes in the EEZ may not combine a trip limit specified in this section with any trip or possession limit applicable to state waters. A species subject to a trip limit specified in this section taken in the EEZ may not be transferred at sea, regardless of where such transfer takes place, and such species may not be transferred in the EEZ. Commercial trip limits apply as follows (all weights are round or eviscerated weights unless specified otherwise):


(a) *Trip-limited permits*—(1) *Atlantic wahoo.* (i) When using the fishing gear for wahoo and as authorized under § 622.272(a)(1), the trip limit for wahoo in or from the Atlantic EEZ is 500 lb (227 kg). This trip limit applies to a vessel that has a Federal commercial permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo, provided that the vessel is not operating as a charter vessel or headboat.


(ii) When using the fishing gear for wahoo and as authorized and permitted as described under § 622.272(a)(2), the trip limit for wahoo in or from the Atlantic EEZ is 500 lb (227 kg). The trip limit in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) may not be combined with the trip limit specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(iii) See § 622.280(b)(1) for the limitations regarding wahoo after the ACL is reached.


(2) *Atlantic dolphin.* (i) Once 75 percent of the ACL specified in § 622.280(a)(1)(i) is reached, the trip limit is 4,000 lb (1,814 kg), round weight. When the conditions in this paragraph (a)(3)(i) have been met, the Assistant Administrator will implement this trip limit by filing a notification with the Office of the Federal Register. This trip limit applies to a vessel that has a Federal commercial permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo, provided that the vessel is not operating as a charter vessel or headboat.


(ii) When using the fishing gear for dolphin and as authorized and permitted as described under § 622.272(a)(2), the trip limit for dolphin in or from the Atlantic EEZ is 500 lb (227 kg), gutted weight. The trip limit in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) may not be combined with the trip limit specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(iii) See § 622.280(a)(1) for the limitations regarding dolphin after the ACL is reached.


(3) *Vessels without a Federal dolphin and wahoo commercial permit.* The trip limit for a vessel that does not have a Federal commercial vessel permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo but has a Federal commercial vessel permit in any other fishery is 200 lb (91 kg) of dolphin and wahoo, combined, provided that all fishing on and landings from that trip are north of 39° N lat. (A charter vessel/headboat permit is not a commercial vessel permit.)


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 96930, Dec. 30, 2016; 87 FR 19019, Apr. 1, 2022]




