# § 404.802   Definitions.

For the purpose of this subpart—


*Earnings* means wages and self-employment income earned by a person based on work covered by social security. (See subpart K for the rules about what constitutes wages and self-employment income for benefit purposes.)


*Period* means a taxable year when referring to self-employment income. When referring to wages it means a calendar quarter if the wages were reported or should have been reported quarterly by your employer or a calendar year if the wages were reported or should have been reported annually by your employer.


*Record of earnings, earnings record,* or *record* means SSA's records of the amounts of wages paid to you and the amounts of self-employment income you received, the periods in which the wages were paid and the self-employment income was received, and the quarters of coverage which you earned based on these earnings.


*Survivor* means your spouse, divorced wife, child, or parent, who survives you. *Survivor* also includes your surviving divorced wife who may be entitled to benefits as a surviving divorced mother.


*Tax return* means, as appropriate, a tax return of wages or a tax return of self-employment income (including information returns and other written statements filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue under chapter 2 or 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended).


*Time limit* means a period of time 3 years, 3 months, and 15 days after any year in which you received earnings. The period may be extended by the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Act of 1940 because of your military service or the military service of certain relatives who survive you (50 U.S.C. App. 501 and following sections). Where the time limit ends on a Federal nonwork day, we will extend it to the next Federal work day.


*Wage report* means a statement filed by a State under section 218 of the Social Security Act or related regulations. This statement includes wage amounts for which a State is billed and wage amounts for which credits or refunds are made to a State according to an agreement under section 218 of the Act.


*We, us,* or *our* means the Social Security Administration (SSA).


*Year* means a calendar year when referring to wages and a taxable year when referring to self-employment income.


*You* or *your* means any person for whom we maintain a record of earnings.




