# § 2525.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions in § 2510.20 of this chapter, the following definitions apply to terms used this part:


*AmeriCorps* means the Corporation for National and Community Service.


*Cost of attendance* has the same meaning as in Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1070 et. seq.).


*Current educational expenses* means the cost of attendance, or other costs attributable to an educational course offered by an institution of higher education that has in effect a program participation agreement under Title IV of the Higher Education Act, for a period of enrollment that begins after an individual enrolls in an approved national service position.


*Designated Recipient* means the person to whom an earned education award is transferred.


*Economically disadvantaged youth* means a child who is eligible for a free lunch or breakfast under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(b)).


*Education award* means the Segal AmeriCorps Education Award of financial assistance available under this part, including the Silver Scholar education awards, and Summer of Service education awards.


*Educational expenses* means—


(1) Cost of attendance as determined by the Title IV institution of higher education or G.I. Bill-approved program as provided in 20 U.S.C. 1087*ll;* or


(2) Tuition or associated costs as determined by a program offered by an educational institution or training establishment approved for educational benefits under 38 U.S.C. 3670 *et seq.* for offering programs of education, apprenticeship, or on-job training for which educational assistance may be provided by the Secretary for Veterans Affairs; and


(3) Expenses incurred participating in a school-to-work program approved by the Secretaries of Labor and Education.


*Eligible Individual* means an individual who has enrolled in and successfully completed a term of service in an approved national service position, as certified under § 2525.15.


*G.I. Bill-approved program* is an educational institution or training establishment approved for educational benefits under the Montgomery G.I. Bill (38 U.S.C. 3670 *et seq.*) for offering programs of education, apprenticeship, or on-job training for which educational assistance may be provided by the Secretary for Veterans Affairs.


*Holder* means—


(1) The original lender; or


(2) Any other entity to which a loan is subsequently sold, transferred, or assigned if such entity acquires a legally enforceable right to receive payments from the borrower.


*Institution of higher education* has the same meaning given the term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1002).


*Period of enrollment* means the period that the institution has established for which institutional charges are generally assessed (*e.g.,* length of the student's course, program, or academic year.)


*Qualified student loan* means:


(1) Any loan made, insured, or guaranteed under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 *et seq.*), other than a loan to a parent of a student under section 428B of that Act (20 U.S.C. 1078-2);


(2) Any loan made under Title VII or VIII of the Public Service Health Act (42 U.S.C. 292a *et seq.*); or


(3) Any other loan determined by an institution of higher education or an approved veterans' benefits program to be necessary to cover a student's educational expenses and made, insured, or guaranteed by:


(i) An eligible lender, as defined in section 435 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1085);


(ii) The direct student loan program under part D of Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a *et seq.*);


(iii) A State agency; or


(iv) A lender otherwise determined by AmeriCorps to be eligible to receive disbursements from the National Service Trust.


*Silver Scholar education award* means the financial assistance available under this part for which an individual in an approved Silver Scholar position may be eligible.


*Summer of Service education award* means the financial assistance available under this part for which an individual in an approved Summer of Service position may be eligible.


*Term of service* means—


(1) For an individual serving in an approved AmeriCorps position, one of the terms of service specified in § 2522.220 of this chapter


(2) For an individual serving in an approved Silver Scholar position, not less than 350 hours during a one-year period


(3) For an individual serving in an approved Summer of Service position, not less than 100 hours during the summer months of a single year.






