# § 257.106   Notification requirements.

(a) *Deadline to submit notification to the relevant State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority.* The notifications required under paragraphs (e) through (i) of this section must be sent to the relevant State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority before the close of business on the day the notification is required to be completed. For purposes of this section, *before the close of business* means the notification must be postmarked or sent by electronic mail (email). If a notification deadline falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the notification deadline is automatically extended to the next business day.


(b) *Notifications to Tribal authority.* If any CCR unit is located in its entirety within Indian Country, the notifications of this section must be sent to the appropriate Tribal authority. If any CCR unit is located in part within Indian Country, the notifications of this section must be sent both to the appropriate State Director and Tribal authority.


(c) *Combining notifications.* Notifications may be combined as long as the deadline requirement for each notification is met.


(d) *Notification deadline after placement in operating record.* Unless otherwise required in this section, the notifications specified in this section must be sent to the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority within 30 days of placing in the operating record the information required by § 257.105.












(e) *Location restrictions.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to the requirements of this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority that each demonstration specified under § 257.105(e) has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site.


(f) *Design criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Within 60 days of commencing construction of a new CCR unit, provide notification of the availability of the design certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3). If the owner or operator of the CCR unit elects to install an alternative composite liner, the owner or operator must also submit to the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority a copy of the alternative composite liner design.


(2) No later than the date of initial receipt of CCR by a new CCR unit, provide notification of the availability of the construction certification specified under § 257.105(f)(1) or (3).


(3) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation of liner type specified under § 257.105(f)(2).


(4) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic hazard potential classification assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(5).


(5) Provide notification of the availability of emergency action plan (EAP), and any revisions of the EAP, specified under § 257.105(f)(6).


(6) Provide notification of the availability of documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording the annual face-to-face meeting or exercise between representatives of the owner or operator of the CCR unit and the local emergency responders specified under § 257.105(f)(7).


(7) Provide notification of documentation prepared by the owner or operator recording all activations of the emergency action plan specified under § 257.105(f)(8).


(8) Provide notification of the availability of the history of construction, and any revision of it, specified under § 257.105(f)(9).


(9) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic structural stability assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(10).


(10) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release specified under § 257.105(f)(11).


(11) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic safety factor assessments specified under § 257.105(f)(12).


(12) Provide notification of the availability of the design and construction plans, and any revision of them, specified under § 257.105(f)(13).




(13) Provide notification of the availability of the application and any supplemental materials submitted in support of the application specified under § 257.105(f)(14).


(14) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(15).


(15) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative liner demonstration extension request specified under § 257.105(f)(16).


(16) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation prepared for the preliminary demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(17).


(17) Provide notification of the availability of the notification of an incomplete application specified under § 257.105(f)(18).


(18) Provide notification of the availability of the decision on the application specified under § 257.105(f)(19).


(19) Provide notification of the availability of the final decision on the alternative liner demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(20).


(20) Provide notification of the availability of the alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(21).


(21) Provide notification of the availability of the final decision on the alternative source demonstration specified under § 257.105(f)(22).


(22) Provide notification of the final decision on the trend analysis specified under § 257.105(f)(23).


(23) Provide notification of the decision that the alternative source demonstration has been withdrawn specified under § 257.105(f)(24).


(24) Provide notification of the availability of the facility evaluation report part 1 as specified by § 257.105(f)(25).


(25) Provide notification of the availability of the facility evaluation report part 2 as specified by § 257.105(f)(26).




(g) *Operating criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Provide notification of the availability of the CCR fugitive dust control plan, or any subsequent amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(g)(1).


(2) Provide notification of the availability of the annual CCR fugitive dust control report specified under § 257.105(g)(2).


(3) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic run-on and run-off control system plans specified under § 257.105(g)(3).


(4) Provide notification of the availability of the initial and periodic inflow design flood control system plans specified under § 257.105(g)(4).


(5) Provide notification of the availability of the periodic inspection reports specified under § 257.105(g)(6).


(6) Provide notification of the availability of the documentation detailing the corrective measures taken to remedy the deficiency or release specified under § 257.105(g)(7).


(7) Provide notification of the availability of the periodic inspection reports specified under § 257.105(g)(9).


(h) *Groundwater monitoring and corrective action.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Provide notification of the availability of the annual groundwater monitoring and corrective action report specified under § 257.105(h)(1).


(2) Provide notification of the availability of the groundwater monitoring system certification specified under § 257.105(h)(3).


(3) Provide notification of the availability of the selection of a statistical method certification specified under § 257.105(h)(4).


(4) Provide notification that an assessment monitoring programs has been established specified under § 257.105(h)(5).


(5) Provide notification that the CCR unit is returning to a detection monitoring program specified under § 257.105(h)(7).


(6) Provide notification that one or more constituents in appendix IV to this part have been detected at statistically significant levels above the groundwater protection standard and the notifications to land owners specified under § 257.105(h)(8).


(7) Provide notification that an assessment of corrective measures has been initiated specified under § 257.105(h)(9).


(8) Provide notification of the availability of assessment of corrective measures specified under § 257.105(h)(10).


(9) Provide notification of the availability of the semiannual report describing the progress in selecting and designing the remedy and the selection of remedy report specified under § 257.105(h)(12).


(10) Provide notification of the completion of the remedy specified under § 257.105(h)(13).


(11) Provide the demonstration supporting the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements specified under § 257.105(h)(14).


(i) *Closure and post-closure care.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible Internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Provide notification of the intent to initiate closure of the CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(1).


(2) Provide notification of the availability of the annual progress reports of closure implementation specified under § 257.105(i)(2).


(3) Provide notification of closure completion specified under § 257.105(i)(3).


(4) Provide notification of the availability of the written closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(4).


(5) Provide notification of the availability of the demonstration(s) for a time extension for initiating closure specified under § 257.105(i)(5).


(6) Provide notification of the availability of the demonstration(s) for a time extension for completing closure specified under § 257.105(i)(6).


(7) Provide notification of intent to close a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(7).


(8) Provide notification of completion of closure of a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(i)(8).


(9) Provide notification of the deed notation as required by § 257.105(i)(9).


(10) Provide notification of intent to comply with the alternative closure requirements specified under § 257.105(i)(10).


(11) The annual progress reports under the alternative closure requirements as required by § 257.105(i)(11).


(12) Provide notification of the availability of the written post-closure plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(i)(12).


(13) Provide notification of completion of post-closure care specified under § 257.105(i)(13).


(14) Provide the notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(14).


(15) Provide the approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as required by as specified under § 257.105(i)(15).


(16) Provide the notification for requesting additional time to the alternative cease receipt of waste deadline as required by § 257.105(i)(16).


(17) The semi-annual progress reports for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to development of alternative capacity infeasible as specified under § 257.105(i)(17).


(18) Provide the notification of intent to comply with the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as specified under § 257.105(i)(18).


(19) Provide the approved or denied demonstration for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(19).


(20) The annual progress report for the site-specific alternative to initiation of closure due to permanent cessation of a coal-fired boiler(s) by a date certain as required by § 257.105(i)(20).


(j) *Retrofit criteria.* The owner or operator of a CCR unit subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible Internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Provide notification of the availability of the written retrofit plan, and any amendment of the plan, specified under § 257.105(j)(1).


(2) Provide notification of intent to comply with the alternative retrofit requirements specified under § 257.105(j)(2).


(3) The annual progress reports under the alternative retrofit requirements as required by § 257.105(j)(3).


(4) Provide notification of the availability of the demonstration(s) for a time extension for completing retrofit activities specified under § 257.105(j)(4).


(5) Provide notification of intent to initiate retrofit of a CCR unit specified under § 257.105(j)(5).


(6) Provide notification of completion of retrofit activities specified under § 257.105(j)(6).


(k) *Legacy CCR surface impoundments.* In addition to the information specified in paragraphs (e) through (j) of this section, the owner or operator of a legacy CCR surface impoundment subject to this subpart must notify the State Director and/or appropriate Tribal authority when information has been placed in the operating record and on the owner or operator's publicly accessible internet site. The owner or operator must:


(1) Provide notification of the availability of the applicability documentation as specified under § 257.105(k)(1).


(2) Provide notification of the availability of the applicability extension report as specified under § 257.105(k)(2).


(3) Provide notification of the availability of the notification as specified under § 257.105(k)(3).


(4) Provide notification of the availability of the intent to certify closure by removal certification as specified under § 257.105(k)(4).







---

[N] [80 FR 21468, Apr. 17, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 36456, July 30, 2018; 85 FR 53565, Aug. 28, 2020; 85 FR 72543, Nov. 12, 2020; 89 FR 39118, May 8, 2024]














