# § 200.948   Building product standards and certification program for carpet cushion.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) All carpet cushion shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with the following standards from the American Society for Testing and Materials: 


(i) ASTM D 1667-76—(Reapproved 1990) Standard Specification for Flexible Cellular Materials—Vinyl Chloride Polymers and Copolymers (Closed-Cell Foam); 


(ii) ASTM D2646-87—Standard Test Methods for Backing Fabrics; 


(iii) ASTM D629-88—Standard Test Methods for Quantitative Analysis of Textiles; 


(iv) ASTM D3574-91—Standard Test Methods for Flexible Cellular Materials—Slab, Bonded, and Molded Urethane Foams; 


(v) ASTM D3676-78—Standard Specification for Rubber Cellular Cushion Used for Carpet or Rug Underlay. 


(2) These standards have been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference. The standards are available from the American Society for Testing Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. These standards are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in § 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark, the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standards, and the type and class all are required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. 


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance inspection.* Under the procedure set forth in § 200.935(d)(8), testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows:


(1) At least every six months, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample of each certified carpet cushion for testing by a laboratory approved by the administrator.


(2) The administrator also shall review the quality assurance procedures every six months to assure that they are being followed by the manufacturer. 



---

[N] [58 FR 67675, Dec. 22, 1993]




