# ยง 740.24   Implemented Export Control (IEC).

(a) *Scope.* License Exception Implemented Export Controls (IEC) authorizes exports, reexports, and transfers (in-country) in accordance with *License Exception IEC Eligible Items and Destinations,* see paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Eligible items and destinations.* License Exception IEC authorizes specified items to be exported, reexported, or transferred (in-country) to, among, or within specified destinations, as identified for each respective item, in accordance with *License Exception IEC Eligible Items and Destinations.* See paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Incorporation by reference. License Exception Implemented Export Controls (IEC) Eligible Items and Destinations,* last modified September 17, 2024, is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the BIS and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact BIS at: BIS Office of National Security Controls, phone: 202-482-0092; email: *LicenseExceptionIEC@bis.doc*; website: *www.bis.gov.* For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* The material may be obtained from BIS and is available for inspection on the BIS website at *www.bis.gov/IEC.*


---

[N] [89 FR 72937, Sept. 6, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 83428, Oct. 16, 2024]




