# ยง 578.75   General operations.

(a) *State and local requirements.* (1) Housing and facilities constructed or rehabilitated with assistance under this part must meet State or local building codes, and in the absence of State or local building codes, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable to the type of structure) of the International Code Council.


(2) Services provided with assistance under this part must be provided in compliance with all applicable State and local requirements, including licensing requirements.




(b) *Housing standards.* Housing leased with Continuum of Care program funds, or for which rental assistance payments are made with Continuum of Care program funds, must meet the applicable standards under 24 CFR 5.703, except that the carbon monoxide detection requirement at 24 CFR 5.703(b)(2) and (d)(6) shall not apply. For housing that is occupied by program participants receiving tenant-based rental assistance, 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, M, and R apply. For housing rehabilitated with funds under this part, the lead-based paint requirements in 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, J, and R apply. For housing that receives project-based or sponsor-based rental assistance, 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, H, and R apply. For residential property for which funds under this part are used for acquisition, leasing, services, or operating costs, 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, K, and R apply. Additionally, for tenant-based rental assistance, for leasing of individual units, and for sponsor based rental assistance where not all units in a structure are or will be assisted, the standards apply only to the unit itself, and to the means of ingress and egress from the unit to the public way and to the building's common areas.


(1) Before any assistance will be provided on behalf of a program participant, the recipient, or subrecipient, must physically inspect each unit to assure that the unit meets 24 CFR 5.703. Assistance will not be provided for units that fail to meet 24 CFR 5.703, unless the owner corrects any deficiencies within 30 days from the date of the initial inspection and the recipient or subrecipient verifies that all deficiencies have been corrected.


(2) Recipients or subrecipients must inspect all units at least annually during the grant period to ensure that the units continue to meet 24 CFR 5.703.


(3) The requirements in 24 CFR 5.705 through 5.713 do not apply.






(c) *Suitable dwelling size.* The dwelling unit must have at least one bedroom or living/sleeping room for each two persons.


(1) Children of opposite sex, other than very young children, may not be required to occupy the same bedroom or living/sleeping room.


(2) If household composition changes during the term of assistance, recipients and subrecipients may relocate the household to a more appropriately sized unit. The household must still have access to appropriate supportive services.


(d) *Meals.* Each recipient and subrecipient of assistance under this part who provides supportive housing for homeless persons with disabilities must provide meals or meal preparation facilities for residents.


(e) *Ongoing assessment of supportive services.* To the extent practicable, each project must provide supportive services for residents of the project and homeless persons using the project, which may be designed by the recipient or participants. Each recipient and subrecipient of assistance under this part must conduct an ongoing assessment of the supportive services needed by the residents of the project, the availability of such services, and the coordination of services needed to ensure long-term housing stability and must make adjustments, as appropriate.


(f) *Residential supervision.* Each recipient and subrecipient of assistance under this part must provide residential supervision as necessary to facilitate the adequate provision of supportive services to the residents of the housing throughout the term of the commitment to operate supportive housing. Residential supervision may include the employment of a full- or part-time residential supervisor with sufficient knowledge to provide or to supervise the provision of supportive services to the residents.


(g) *Participation of homeless individuals.* (1) Each recipient and subrecipient must provide for the participation of not less than one homeless individual or formerly homeless individual on the board of directors or other equivalent policymaking entity of the recipient or subrecipient, to the extent that such entity considers and makes policies and decisions regarding any project, supportive services, or assistance provided under this part. This requirement is waived if a recipient or subrecipient is unable to meet such requirement and obtains HUD approval for a plan to otherwise consult with homeless or formerly homeless persons when considering and making policies and decisions.


(2) Each recipient and subrecipient of assistance under this part must, to the maximum extent practicable, involve homeless individuals and families through employment; volunteer services; or otherwise in constructing, rehabilitating, maintaining, and operating the project, and in providing supportive services for the project.


(h) *Supportive service agreement.* Recipients and subrecipients may require the program participants to take part in supportive services that are not disability-related services provided through the project as a condition of continued participation in the program. Examples of disability-related services include, but are not limited to, mental health services, outpatient health services, and provision of medication, which are provided to a person with a disability to address a condition caused by the disability. Notwithstanding this provision, if the purpose of the project is to provide substance abuse treatment services, recipients and subrecipients may require program participants to take part in such services as a condition of continued participation in the program.


(i) *Retention of assistance after death, incarceration, or institutionalization for more than 90 days of qualifying member.* For permanent supportive housing projects surviving, members of any household who were living in a unit assisted under this part at the time of the qualifying member's death, long-term incarceration, or long-term institutionalization, have the right to rental assistance under this section until the expiration of the lease in effect at the time of the qualifying member's death, long-term incarceration, or long-term institutionalization.


(j) *Remaining program participants following bifurcation of a lease or eviction as a result of domestic violence.* For permanent supportive housing projects, members of any household who were living in a unit assisted under this part at the time of a qualifying member's eviction from the unit because the qualifying member was found to have engaged in criminal activity directly relating to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, have the right to rental assistance under this section until the expiration of the lease in effect at the time of the qualifying member's eviction.



---

[N] [77 FR 45442, July 31, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 80810, Nov. 16, 2016; 88 FR 30499, May 11, 2023]








