# ยง 3560.608   Site and construction requirements.

(a) *General.* Cost and development standards for on-farm labor housing will be consistent with the requirements, standards, and cost limits specified in subpart B of this part, if the housing is a multi-family housing type structure, or consistent with section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949, if the housing is a single family type structure.


(b) *Permanent units.* On-farm labor housing occupied for 8 months or more of the year will be required to meet the following requirements.


(1) Housing may be multi-family or single family in type and may be located on the farm away from farm service buildings, or in the nearby community. Single-family type housing is defined as an individual or a group of individual single family detached dwelling units. All sites and housing shall be planned and constructed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subparts A and C.


(2) Sites must be accessible from a public road, when feasible.


(c) *Seasonal units.* On-farm labor housing occupied for less than 8 months of the year will be considered seasonal housing. Such housing must meet the following requirements.


(1) Housing designed for seasonal occupancy may be either single family or multi-family.


(2) Seasonal housing may be constructed in accordance with exhibit I of 7 CFR part 1924, subpart A. If constructed in accordance with exhibit I, the housing must be suitable to allow for conversion to full-year occupancy if the need for migrant farmworkers in the area declines.


(d) *Accessibility.* On-farm labor housing that consists of buildings with less than three units, need not meet the requirement that five percent of the units be constructed as fully accessible units, as described in ยง 3560.60(d). This does not, however, eliminate any other accessibility requirements.




