# § 88.1   Definitions.

*Act* means Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 300mm through 300mm-64 (codifying Title I of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-347, as amended by Pub. L. 114-113, Pub. L. 116-59, Pub. L. 117-328, and Pub. L. 118-31), which created the World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program.




*Aggravating* means a health condition that existed on September 11, 2001, and that, as a result of exposure to airborne toxins, any other hazard, or any other adverse condition resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, requires medical treatment that is (or will be) in addition to, more frequent than, or of longer duration than the medical treatment that would have been required for such condition in the absence of such exposure.


*Certification* means WTC Health Program review of a health condition in a particular WTC Health Program member for the purpose of identification and approval of a WTC-related health condition, as defined in this section and included on the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions in 42 CFR 88.15, or a health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition.


*Certified-eligible survivor* means (1) an individual who has been identified as eligible for medical monitoring and treatment as of January 2, 2011; or (2) a screening-eligible survivor who is eligible for follow-up monitoring and treatment pursuant to § 88.12(b).


*Clinical Center of Excellence (CCE)* means a center or centers under contract with the WTC Health Program. A CCE:


(1) Uses an integrated, centralized health care provider approach to create a comprehensive suite of health services that are accessible to enrolled WTC responders, screening-eligible survivors, or certified-eligible survivors;


(2) Has experience in caring for WTC responders and screening-eligible survivors, or includes health care providers who have received WTC Health Program training;


(3) Employs health care provider staff with expertise that includes, at a minimum, occupational medicine, environmental medicine, trauma-related psychiatry and psychology, and social services counseling; and


(4) Meets such other requirements as specified by the Administrator of the WTC Health Program.


*Data Center* means a center or centers under contract with the WTC Health Program to:


(1) Receive, analyze, and report to the Administrator of the WTC Health Program on data that have been collected and reported to the Data Center by the corresponding CCE(s);


(2) Develop monitoring, initial health evaluation, and treatment protocols with respect to WTC-related health conditions;


(3) Coordinate the outreach activities of the corresponding CCE;


(4) Establish criteria for credentialing of medical providers participating in the Nationwide Provider Network;


(5) Coordinate and administer the activities of the WTC Health Program Steering Committees; and


(6) Meet periodically with the corresponding CCE(s) to obtain input on the analysis and reporting of data and on development of monitoring, initial health evaluation, and treatment protocols.


*Designated representative* means an individual selected by an applicant, WTC responder, or a screening-eligible or certified-eligible survivor to represent his or her interests to the WTC Health Program.




*Federal agency* means an agency, office, or other establishment in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government.




*Ground Zero* means a site in Lower Manhattan bounded by Vesey Street to the north, the West Side Highway to the west, Liberty Street to the south, and Church Street to the east in which stood the former World Trade Center complex.


*Health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition* means a condition that results from treatment of a WTC-related health condition or results from progression of a WTC-related health condition.


*Initial health evaluation* means assessment of one or more symptoms that may be associated with a WTC-related health condition and includes a medical and exposure history, a physical examination, and additional medical testing as needed to evaluate whether the individual has a WTC-related health condition and is eligible for treatment under the WTC Health Program.


*Interested party* means a representative of any organization representing WTC responders, a nationally recognized medical association, a WTC Health Program CCE or Data Center, a State or political subdivision, or any other interested person.


*List of WTC-Related Health Conditions* means those conditions eligible for coverage in the WTC Health Program as identified in § 88.15 of this part.


*Medical emergency* means a physical or mental health condition for which immediate treatment is necessary.


*Medically necessary treatment* means the provision of services to a WTC Health Program member by physicians and other health care providers, including diagnostic and laboratory tests, prescription drugs, inpatient and outpatient hospital services, and other care that is appropriate, to manage, ameliorate, or cure a WTC-related health condition or a health condition medically associated with a WTC-related health condition, and which conforms to medical treatment protocols developed by the Data Centers, with input from the CCEs, and approved by the Administrator of the WTC Health Program.


*Monitoring* means periodic physical and mental health assessment of a WTC responder or certified-eligible survivor in relation to exposure to airborne toxins, any other hazard, or any other adverse condition resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and which includes a medical and exposure history, a physical examination and additional medical testing as needed for surveillance or to evaluate symptom(s) to determine whether the individual has a WTC-related health condition.


*Nationwide Provider Network (NPN)* means a network of providers throughout the United States under contract with the WTC Health Program to provide an initial health evaluation, monitoring, and treatment to enrolled WTC responders, screening-eligible survivors, or certified-eligible survivors who live outside the New York metropolitan area.


*New York City disaster area* means an area within New York City that is the area of Manhattan that is south of Houston Street and any block in Brooklyn that is wholly or partially contained within a 1.5-mile radius of the former World Trade Center complex.


*New York metropolitan area* means the combined statistical areas comprising the Bridgeport-Stamford-Norwalk, CT Metropolitan Statistical Area; Kingston, NY Metropolitan Statistical Area; New Haven-Milford, CT Metropolitan Statistical Area; New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY-NJ-PA Metropolitan Statistical Area; Poughkeepsie-Newburgh-Middletown, NY Metropolitan Statistical Area; Torrington, CT Micropolitan Statistical Area; Trenton-Ewing, NJ Metropolitan Statistical Area, as defined in OMB Bulletin 10-02, December 1, 2009.


*NIOSH* means the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


*One (1) day* means the length of a standard work shift, or at least 4 hours but less than 24 hours.


*Pentagon site* means any area of the land (consisting of approximately 280 acres) and improvements thereon, located in Arlington, Virginia, on which the Pentagon Office Building, Federal Building Number 2, the Pentagon heating and sewage treatment plants, and other related facilities are located, including various areas designated for the parking of vehicles, vehicle access, and other areas immediately adjacent to the land or improvements previously described that were affected by the terrorist-related aircraft crash on September 11, 2001; and those areas at Fort Belvoir in Fairfax County, Virginia and at the Dover Port Mortuary at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware involved in the recovery, identification, and transportation of human remains for the incident.


*Police department* means any law enforcement department or agency, whether under Federal, state, or local jurisdiction, responsible for general police duties, such as maintenance of public order, safety, or health, enforcement of laws, or otherwise charged with prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of crimes.


*Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee* means the WTC Health Program Scientific/Technical Advisory Committee whose members are appointed by the Administrator of the WTC Health Program to review scientific and medical evidence and to make recommendations to the Administrator on additional WTC Health Program eligibility criteria and on additional WTC-related health conditions.


*Screening-eligible survivor* means an individual who is not a WTC responder and who claims symptoms of a WTC-related health condition and meets the eligibility criteria for a survivor specified in § 88.8 of this part.


*September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks* means the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, in New York City, at Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and at the Pentagon, and includes the aftermath of such attacks.


*Shanksville, Pennsylvania site* means the property in Stonycreek Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania, which is bounded by Route 30 (Lincoln Highway), State Route 1019 (Buckstown Road), and State Route 1007 (Lambertsville Road); and those areas at the Pennsylvania National Guard Armory in Friedens, Pennsylvania involved in the recovery, identification, and transportation of human remains for the incident.


*Staten Island Landfill* means the landfill in Staten Island, NY called “Fresh Kills.”


*Terrorist watch list* means the lists maintained by the Federal government that will be utilized to screen for known terrorists.




*Uniformed services* means the armed forces, the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service.




*WTC* means World Trade Center.






*WTC Health Program* means the program established by Title XXXIII of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 300mm to 300mm-64 (codifying Title I of the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-347, as amended by Pub. L. 114-113, Pub. L. 116-59, Pub. L. 117-328, and Pub. L. 118-31) to provide medical monitoring and treatment benefits for eligible responders to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and initial health evaluation, monitoring, and treatment benefits for residents and other building occupants and area workers in New York City who were directly impacted and adversely affected by such attacks.




*WTC Health Program member* means any responder, screening-eligible survivor, or certified-eligible survivor enrolled in the WTC Health Program.


*WTC Program Administrator (Administrator of the WTC Health Program, or Administrator)* means, for the purposes of this part, the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, or his or her designee.


*WTC-related acute traumatic injury* means a health condition eligible for coverage in the WTC Health Program as described in § 88.15(e)(1) of this part.


*WTC-related health condition* means an illness or health condition for which exposure to airborne toxins, any other hazard, or any other adverse condition resulting from the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, based on an examination by a medical professional with expertise in treating or diagnosing the health conditions in the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions, is substantially likely to be a significant factor in aggravating, contributing to, or causing the illness or health condition, including a mental health condition. Only those conditions on the List of WTC-Related Health Conditions codified in 42 CFR 88.15 may be considered WTC-related health conditions.


*WTC-related musculoskeletal disorder* means a health condition eligible for coverage in the WTC Health Program as described in § 88.15(c)(1) of this part.


*WTC responder* means an individual who has been identified as eligible for monitoring and treatment as described in § 88.3 or who meets the eligibility criteria in § 88.4.





---

[N] [81 FR 90938, Dec. 15, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 73600, Sept. 11, 2024]






