# § 457.622   Rate of FFP for State expenditures.

(a) *Basis.* Sections 1905(b), 2105(a) and 2105(b) of the Act provides for payments to States from the States' allotments for a fiscal year, as determined under § 457.608, for part of the cost of expenditures for services and administration made under an approved State child health assistance plan. The rate of payment is generally the enhanced Federal medical assistance percentage described below. 


(b) *Enhanced Federal medical assistance percentage (Enhanced FMAP)—Computations.* The enhanced FMAP is the lower of the following: 


(1) 70 percent of the regular FMAP determined under section 1905(b) of the Act, plus 30 percentage points; or 


(2) 85 percent. 


(c) *Conditions for availability of enhanced FMAP based on a State's expenditures*—The enhanced FMAP is available for payments based on a State's expenditures claimed under the State's title XXI program from the State's fiscal year allotment only under the following conditions: 


(1) The State has an approved title XXI State child health plan; 


(2) The expenditures are allowable under the State's approved title XXI State child health plan; 


(3) State allotment amounts are available in the fiscal year, that is, the State's allotment or allotments (as reduced in accordance with § 457.616) remain available for a fiscal year and have not been fully expended. 


(4) Expenditures claimed against the 10 percent limit are within the State's 10 percent limit for the fiscal year. 


(5) For States that elect to extend eligibility to unborn children under the approved Child Health Plan, the State does not adopt eligibility standards and methodologies for purposes of determining a child's eligibility under the Medicaid State plan that were more restrictive than those applied under policies of the State plan in effect on June 1, 1997. This limitation applies also to more restrictive standards and methodologies for determining eligibility for services for a child based on the eligibility of a pregnant woman. 


(d) *Categories of expenditures for which enhanced FMAP are available.* Except as otherwise provided below, the enhanced FMAP is available with respect to the following States' expenditures: 


(1) Child health assistance under the plan for targeted low-income children in the form of providing health benefits coverage that meets the requirements of section 2103 of the Act; and 


(2) Subject to the 10 percent limit provisions under § 457.618(a)(2), the following expenditures: 


(i) Payment for other child health assistance for targeted low-income children; 


(ii) Expenditures for health services initiatives under the State child health assistance plan for improving the health of children (including targeted low-income children);


(iii) Expenditures for outreach activities; and 


(iv) Other reasonable costs incurred by the State to administer the State child health assistance plan. 


(e) *CHIP administrative expenditures and CHIP related title XIX administrative expenditures*—(1) *General rule.* Allowable title XXI administrative expenditures should support the operation of the State child health assistance plan. In general, FFP for administration under title XXI is not available for costs of activities related to the operation of other programs. 


(2) *Exception.* FFP is available under title XXI, at the enhanced FFP rate, for Medicaid administrative expenditures attributable to the provision of medical assistance to children described in sections 1905(u)(2) and 1905(u)(3), and during the presumptive eligibility period described in section 1920A of the Act, to the extent that the State does not claim those costs under the Medicaid program. 


(3) FFP is not available in expenditures for administrative activities for items or services included within the scope of another claimed expenditure. 


(4) FFP is available in expenditures for activities defined in sections 2102(c)(1) and 2105(a)(2)(C) of the Act as outreach to families of children likely to be eligible for child health assistance under the plan or under other public or private health coverage programs to inform these families of the availability of, and to assist them in enrolling their children in such a program. 


(5) FFP is available in administrative expenditures for activities specified in sections 2102(c)(2) of the Act as coordination of the administration of the Children's Health Insurance Program with other public and private health insurance programs. FFP would not be available for the costs of administering the other public and private health insurance programs. Coordination activities must be distinguished from other administrative activities common among different programs. 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 61974, Oct. 2, 2002; 75 FR 48852, Aug. 11, 2010]




