# § 303.184   Moving an insured branch of a foreign bank.

(a) *Filing procedures*—(1) *Where and when to file.* An application by an insured branch of a foreign bank seeking the FDIC's consent to move from one location to another, as required by section 18(d)(1) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(d)(1)), shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate FDIC office on the date the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section is published, or within 5 days after the date of the last required publication.


(2) *Content of filing.* A complete letter application shall include the following information:


(i) The exact location of the proposed site, including the street address; 


(ii) Details concerning any involvement in the proposal by an insider of the applicant, as defined in § 303.2(u), including any financial arrangements relating to fees, the acquisition of property, leasing of property, and construction contracts; 


(iii) Comments on any changes in services to be offered, the community to be served, or any other effect the proposal may have on the applicant's compliance with the CRA; and 


(iv) A copy of the newspaper publication required by paragraph (c) of this section, as well as the name and address of the newspaper and the date of the publication. 


(3) *Comptroller's application.* If the applicant is filing an application with the Comptroller which contains the information required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the applicant may submit a copy to the FDIC in lieu of a separate application. 


(4) *Additional information.* The FDIC may request additional information to complete processing.


(b) Processing—(1) *Expedited processing for eligible insured branches.* An application filed by an eligible insured branch as defined in § 303.181(c) of this part will be acknowledged in writing by the FDIC and will receive expedited processing if the applicant is proposing to move within the same state, unless the applicant is notified to the contrary and provided with the basis for that decision. The FDIC may remove an application from expedited processing for any of the reasons set forth in § 303.11(c)(2) of this part. Absent such removal, an application processed under expedited processing will be deemed approved on the latest of the following:


(i) The 21st day after the FDIC's receipt of a substantially complete application; or


(ii) The 5th day after expiration of the comment period described in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(2) *Standard processing.* For those applications that are not processed pursuant to the expedited procedures, the FDIC will provide the applicant with written notification of the final action as soon as the decision is rendered. 


(c) *Publication requirement and comment period*—(1) *Newspaper publications.* The applicant shall publish a notice of its proposal to move from one location to another, as described in § 303.7(b), in a newspaper of general circulation in the community in which the insured branch is located prior to its being moved and in the community to which it is to be moved. The notice shall include the insured branch's current and proposed addresses.


(2) *Public comments.* All public comments must be received by the appropriate regional director within 15 days after the date of the last newspaper publication required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the comment period has been extended or reopened in accordance with § 303.9(b)(2).


(3) *Lobby notices.* If the insured branch has a public lobby, a copy of the newspaper publication shall be posted in the public lobby for at least 15 days beginning on the date of the publication required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Other approval criteria.* (1) The FDIC may approve an application under this section if the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(vi) of this section is satisfied.


(i) The factors set forth in section 6 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1816) have been considered and favorably resolved;


(ii) The applicant is at least adequately capitalized as defined in subpart H of part 324 of this chapter;


(iii) Any financial arrangements which have been made in connection with the proposed relocation and which involve the applicant's directors, officers, major shareholders, or their interests are fair and reasonable in comparison to similar arrangements that could have been made with independent third parties;


(iv) Compliance with the CRA and any applicable related regulations, including 12 CFR part 345, has been considered and favorably resolved;


(v) No CRA protest as defined in § 303.2(l) has been filed which remains unresolved or, where such a protest has been filed and remains unresolved, the Director or designee concurs that approval is consistent with the purposes of the CRA and the applicant agrees in writing to any conditions imposed regarding the CRA; and


(vi) The applicant agrees in writing to comply with any conditions imposed by the FDIC, other than the standard conditions defined in § 303.2(dd) which may be imposed without the applicant's written consent.


(e) Relocation of insured branch from one state to another. If the foreign bank proposes to relocate an insured state branch to a state that is outside the state where the branch is presently located, in addition to meeting the approval criteria contained in paragraph (d) of this section, the foreign bank must:


(i) Comply with any applicable state laws or regulations of the states affected by the proposed relocation; and


(ii) Obtain any required regulatory approvals from the appropriate state licensing authority of the state to which the insured branch proposes to relocate before relocating the existing branch operations and surrendering its existing license to the appropriate state licensing authority of the state from which the branch is relocating.



---

[N] [67 FR 79247, Dec. 27, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 17559, Apr. 6, 2005; 78 FR 55470, Sept. 10, 2013; 83 FR 17739, Apr. 24, 2018; 85 FR 72555, Nov. 13, 2020; 86 FR 9433, Feb. 16, 2021]




