# ยง 216.116   Use of edible and nonedible whale products.

(a) Gray whales landed under a hunt permit may be utilized as follows:


(1) *Edible products of ENP gray whales.* Enrolled members of the Makah Indian Tribe may possess, consume, and transport edible whale products and may share and barter such products with other enrolled members, both within and outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, subject to the following restrictions:


(i) Within the Tribe's reservation boundaries, enrolled members of the Makah Indian Tribe may share edible ENP gray whale products with any person.


(ii) Outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, enrolled members of the Makah Indian Tribe may share edible ENP gray whale products:


(A) At the Tribal member's residence with any person, provided the products are shared for consumption at the Tribal member's residence; or


(B) With any person attending a Tribal or intertribal gathering sanctioned by the Makah Tribal Council, so long as there is not more than 2 pounds of such edible product per person attending the gathering.


(iii) Any person who is not an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe may possess, consume, and transport edible ENP gray whale products within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries so long as the products are shared by an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe. Outside the Tribe's reservation boundaries, any person who is not an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe may possess, consume, and transport edible gray whale products only at a Tribal member's residence or at a Tribal or intertribal gathering sanctioned by the Makah Tribal Council if such products are shared by an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe and the person consumes the products at the gathering.


(2) *Nonedible products of ENP gray whales.* (i) Enrolled members of the Makah Indian Tribe may possess nonedible whale products that have not been fashioned into Makah Indian handicrafts and Makah Indian handicrafts that have not been marked and certificated per paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, may transport such products, and may share and barter such products with other enrolled members both within and outside the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries.


(ii) Enrolled members of the Makah Indian Tribe may share or barter Makah Indian handicrafts that have not been marked and certificated per paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section with any person within the Tribe's reservation boundaries.


(iii) Any person may possess, transport, share, barter, offer for sale, sell, or purchase a Makah Indian handicraft in the United States, provided the handicraft is permanently marked with a distinctive marking approved by the Makah Tribal Council, and is accompanied by a certificate of authenticity issued by the Makah Tribal Council or its designee and entered in the Tribe's official record of Makah Indian handicrafts. Such handicrafts may be delivered, carried, transported, or shipped in interstate commerce.


(iv) Within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, any person who is not an enrolled member of the Makah Indian Tribe may possess and transport Makah Indian handicrafts that have not been marked and certificated per paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, provided the handicraft was shared by or bartered from an enrolled member. Within the Makah Indian Tribe's reservation boundaries, persons not enrolled as a member of the Makah Indian Tribe may share or barter such handicrafts only with enrolled members.


(b) The Makah Indian Tribe is responsible for managing all activities of any Makah Indian Tribal member carried out under this section.






