# ยง 175.26   Notification at cargo facilities of hazardous materials requirements.

(a) Each person who engages in the acceptance or transport of cargo for transportation by aircraft shall display notices to persons offering such cargo of the requirements applicable to the carriage of hazardous materials aboard aircraft, and the penalties for failure to comply with those requirements, at each facility where cargo is accepted. Each notice must be legible, and be prominently displayed so it can be seen. At a minimum, each notice must communicate the following information:


(1) Cargo containing hazardous materials (dangerous goods) for transportation by aircraft must be offered in accordance with the Federal Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR parts 171 through 180).


(2) A violation can result in five years' imprisonment and penalties of $250,000 or more (49 U.S.C. 5124).


(3) Hazardous materials (dangerous goods) include explosives, compressed gases, flammable liquids and solids, oxidizers, poisons, corrosives and radioactive materials.


(b) The information contained in paragraph (a) of this section must be printed:


(1) Legibly in English, and, where cargo is accepted outside of the United States, in the language of the host country; and


(2) On a background of contrasting color.


(c) Size and color of the notice are optional. Additional information, examples, or illustrations, if not inconsistent with required information, may be included.


(d) *Exceptions.* Display of a notice required by paragraph (a) of this section is not required at:


(1) An unattended location (e.g., a drop box) provided a general notice advising customers of a prohibition on shipments of hazardous materials through that location is prominently displayed; or


(2) A customer's facility where hazardous materials packages are accepted by a carrier.




