# ยง 280.222   Appeals.

(a) *Grounds.* A party may appeal to the Under Secretary from an order disposing of a proceeding or an order denying a petition to set aside a default or a petition for reopening, on the grounds: 


(1) That a necessary finding of fact is omitted, erroneous or unsupported by substantial evidence of record; 


(2) That a necessary legal conclusion or finding is contrary to law; 


(3) That prejudicial procedural error occurred; or 


(4) That the decision or the extent of sanctions is arbitrary, capricious or an abuse of discretion. The appeal must specify the grounds on which the appeal is based and the provisions of the order from which the appeal is taken. 


(b) *Filing of appeal.* An appeal from an order must be filed with the Office of the Under Secretary for Export Administration, Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room H-3898, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230, within 30 days after service of the order appealed from. If the Under Secretary cannot act on an appeal for any reason, the Under Secretary will designate another Department of Commerce official to receive and act on the appeal. 


(c) *Effect of appeal.* The filing of an appeal shall not stay the operation of any order, unless the order by its express terms so provides or unless the Under Secretary, upon application by a party and with opportunity for response, grants a stay. 


(d) *Appeal procedure.* The Under Secretary normally will not hold hearings or entertain oral argument on appeals. A full written statement in support of the appeal must be filed with the appeal and be simultaneously served on all parties, who shall have 30 days from service to file a reply. At his/her discretion, the Under Secretary may accept new submissions, but will not ordinarily accept those submissions filed more than 30 days after the filing of the reply to the appellant's first submission. 


(e) *Decisions.* The decision will be in writing and will be accompanied by an order signed by the Under Secretary giving effect to the decision. The order may either dispose of the case by affirming, modifying or reversing the order of the administrative law judge or may refer the case back to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. 


(f) *Delivery.* The final decision and implementing order shall be served on the parties and will be publicly available in accordance with ยง 280.221 of this part. 


(g) *Judicial review.* The charged party may appeal the Under Secretary's written order within 30 days to the appropriate United States District Court pursuant to section 9(b)(3) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 5408(b)(3)) by filing a notice of appeal in such court within 30 days from the date of such order and by simultaneously sending a copy of such notice by certified mail to the Chief Counsel for Export Administration, Room H-3839, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. The findings and order of the Under Secretary shall be set aside by such court if they are found to be unsupported by substantial evidence, as provided in section 706(2) of title 5 United States Code. 



---

[N] [61 FR 50558, Sept. 26, 1996. Redesignated and amended at 65 FR 39802, June 28, 2000]




