# ยง 67.3   Definitions.

The following definitions are for terms used in this part.


*Acknowledgment* means:


(1) An acknowledgment or notarization in any form which is in substantial compliance with the Uniform Acknowledgments Act, the Uniform Recognition of Acknowledgments Act, the Uniform Law on Notarial Acts, or the statutes of the State within which it is taken, made before a notary public or other official authorized by a law of a State or the United States to take acknowledgment of deeds;


(2) An acknowledgment or notarization before a notary or other official authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds by the law of a foreign nation which is a party to the Hague Convention Abolishing the Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents, 1961, provided that the acknowledgment or notarization is accompanied by the certificate described in Article 4 of that Convention; or


(3) Any attestation which is substantially in the following form:


*Captured vessel* means a vessel which has been taken by citizens of the United States during a period of war and is thereafter condemned as a prize by a court of competent jurisdiction.


*Certificate of Documentation* means form CG-1270, when issued by the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center. 


*Citizen,* unless expressly provided otherwise, means a person meeting the applicable citizenship requirements of subpart C of this part as a United States citizen.


*Coastwise trade* includes the transportation of passengers or merchandise between points embraced within the coastwise laws of the United States.


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard.


*Documentation officer* means the Coast Guard official who is authorized to process and approve applications made under this part, and record instruments authorized to be filed and recorded under this part.


*Documented vessel* means a vessel which is the subject of a valid Certificate of Documentation.


*Endorsement* means an entry which may be made on a Certificate of Documentation, and which, except for a recreational endorsement, is conclusive evidence that a vessel is entitled to engage in a specified trade.


*Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)* means the zone established by Presidential Proclamation Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983 (48 FR 10105, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 22).


*Fisheries* includes processing, storing, transporting (except in foreign commerce), planting, cultivating, catching, taking, or harvesting fish, shellfish, marine animals, pearls, shells, or marine vegetation in the navigable waters of the United States or in the Exclusive Economic Zone.


*Forfeited vessel* means a vessel:


(1) Which has been adjudged forfeited by a Federal District Court to the Federal Government of the United States for a breach of its laws; or


(2) Which has been forfeited under an administrative forfeiture action to the Federal Government of the United States for a breach of its laws; or


(3) Which has been seized by the Federal Government of the United States for a breach of its laws and which has been sold at an interlocutory sale, the proceeds of which have been adjudged forfeited by a Federal District Court to the Federal Government of the United States. A vessel is considered forfeited within the meaning of this definition even if the proceeds, though adjudged forfeited to the United States, do not actually accrue to the United States. 


*Hull* means the shell, or outer casing, and internal structure below the main deck which provide both the flotation envelope and structural integrity of the vessel in its normal operations. In the case of a submersible vessel, the term includes all structural members of the pressure envelope.


*Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin* means a certificate issued under the law or regulation of a State, evidencing transfer of a vessel from the manufacturer as defined in 33 CFR part 181 to another person. 


*National Vessel Documentation Center* means the organizational unit designated by the Commandant to process vessel documentation transactions and maintain vessel documentation records. The address is: National Vessel Documentation Center, 792 T.J. Jackson Drive, Falling Waters, WV 25419. Telephone: (800) 799-VDOC (8362).


*New vessel* means a vessel: 


(1) The hull and superstructure of which are constructed entirely of new materials; or


(2) Which is constructed using structural parts of an existing vessel, which parts have been torn down so that they are no longer advanced to a degree which would commit them to use in the building of a vessel. 


*Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI)* means the Coast Guard official designated as such by the Commandant, under the superintendence and direction of a Coast Guard District Commander, who is in charge of an inspection zone in accordance with regulations set forth in 46 CFR part 1. 


*Person* means an individual; corporation; partnership; limited liability partnership; limited liability company; association; joint venture; trust arrangement; and the government of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision of the United States or a State; and includes a trustee, beneficiary, receiver, or similar representative of any of them. 


*Registration* means a certificate of number issued pursuant to rules in 33 CFR part 173, a record under the maritime laws of a foreign country, or a certificate issued by a political subdivision of a foreign country. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Homeland Security. 


*State* means a State of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States. 


*Superstructure* means the main deck and any other structural part above the main deck. 


*United States,* when used in a geographic sense means the States of the United States, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States, except that for purposes of ยง 67.19(c)(3) trust territories are not considered to be part of the United States. 


*Vessel* includes every description of watercraft or other contrivance capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, but does not include aircraft. 


*Wrecked vessel,* under the provisions of 46 U.S.C. 12107, means a vessel which: 


(1) Has incurred substantial damage to its hull or superstructure as a result of natural or accidental causes which occurred in the United States or its adjacent waters; and 


(2) Has undergone, in a shipyard in the United States or its possessions, repairs equaling three times the appraised salved value of the vessel. 



---

[N] [CGD 89-007, CGD 89-007a, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, as amended by CGD 95-014, 60 FR 31603, June 15, 1995; CGD 94-070, 60 FR 40241, Aug. 7, 1995; CGD 95-012, 60 FR 48050, Sept. 18, 1995; USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52190, Sept. 30, 1998; USCG-2001-8825, 69 FR 5400, Feb. 4, 2004; USCG-2004-18884, 69 FR 58346, Sept. 30, 2004; USCG-2005-20258, 71 FR 61417, Oct. 18, 2006; USCG-2012-0832, 77 FR 59778, Oct. 1, 2012; USCG-2016-0531, 82 FR 43863, Sept. 20, 2017; 82 FR 58749, Dec. 14, 2017]




