# § 63.447   Clean condensate alternative.

As an alternative to the requirements specified in § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v) for the control of HAP emissions from pulping systems using the kraft process, an owner or operator must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator, by meeting all the requirements below, that the total HAP emissions reductions achieved by this clean condensate alternative technology are equal to or greater than the total HAP emission reductions that would have been achieved by compliance with § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v).


(a) For the purposes of this section only the following additional definitions apply.


(1) *Clean condensate alternative affected source* means the total of all HAP emission points in the pulping, bleaching, causticizing, and papermaking systems (exclusive of HAP emissions attributable to additives to paper machines and HAP emission points in the LVHC system).


(2) *Causticizing system* means all equipment associated with converting sodium carbonate into active sodium hydroxide. The equipment includes smelt dissolving tanks, lime mud washers and storage tanks, white and mud liquor clarifiers and storage tanks, slakers, slaker grit washers, lime kilns, green liquor clarifiers and storage tanks, and dreg washers ending with the white liquor storage tanks prior to the digester system, and any other equipment serving the same function as those previously listed.


(3) *Papermaking system* means all equipment used to convert pulp into paper, paperboard, or market pulp, including the stock storage and preparation systems, the paper or paperboard machines, and the paper machine white water system, broke recovery systems, and the systems involved in calendering, drying, on-machine coating, slitting, winding, and cutting.


(b) Each owner or operator shall install and operate a clean condensate alternative technology with a continuous monitoring system to reduce total HAP emissions by treating and reducing HAP concentrations in the pulping process water used within the clean condensate alternative affected source.


(c) Each owner or operator shall calculate HAP emissions on a kilogram per megagram of ODP basis and measure HAP emissions according to the appropriate procedures contained in § 63.457.


(d) Each owner or operator shall determine the baseline HAP emissions for each equipment system and the total of all equipment systems in the clean condensate alternative affected source based on the following:


(1) Process and air pollution control equipment installed and operating on December 17, 1993, and


(2) Compliance with the following requirements that affect the level of HAP emissions from the clean condensate alternative affected source:


(i) The pulping process condensates requirements in § 63.446;


(ii) The applicable effluent limitation guidelines and standards in 40 CFR part 430, subparts A, B, D, and E; and


(iii) All other applicable requirements of local, State, or Federal agencies or statutes.


(e) Each owner or operator shall determine the following HAP emission reductions from the baseline HAP emissions determined in paragraph (d) of this section for each equipment system and the total of all equipment systems in the clean condensate alternative affected source:


(1) The HAP emission reduction occurring by complying with the requirements of § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v); and


(2) The HAP emissions reduction occurring by complying with the clean condensate alternative technology.


(f) For the purposes of all requirements in this section, each owner or operator may use as an alternative, individual equipment systems (instead of total of all equipment systems) within the clean condensate alternative affected source to determine emissions and reductions to demonstrate equal or greater than the reductions that would have been achieved by compliance with § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v).


(g) The initial and updates to the control strategy report specified in § 63.455(b) shall include to the extent possible the following information:


(1) A detailed description of:


(i) The equipment systems and emission points that comprise the clean condensate alternative affected source;


(ii) The air pollution control technologies that would be used to meet the requirements of § 63.443(a)(1)(ii) through (a)(1)(v); and


(iii) The clean condensate alternative technology to be used.


(2) Estimates and basis for the estimates of total HAP emissions and emission reductions to fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.


(h) Each owner or operator shall report to the Administrator by the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.440(d) or (e) the rationale, calculations, test procedures, and data documentation used to demonstrate compliance with all the requirements of this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998; 63 FR 42239, Aug. 7, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 17563, Apr. 12, 1999]




