# § 4.4   Definitions.

(a) *Applicant* means one who submits an application, request, or plan required to be approved by NRC, or by a primary recipient, as a condition to eligibility for Federal financial assistance; “application” means such an application, request, or plan.


(b) *Commission* means the Commission of five members or a quorum thereof sitting as a body; “NRC” means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and its duly authorized representatives.


(c) *Facility* includes all or any portion of structures, equipment, or other real or personal property or interests therein, and the provisions of facilities includes the construction, expansion, renovation, remodeling, alteration or acquisition of facilities.


(d) *Federal financial assistance* means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which NRC provides or otherwise makes available assistance in the form of—


(1) Funds;


(2) Services of Federal personnel or other personnel at Federal expense; or


(3) Real and personal property or any interest in or use of property, including—


(i) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration;


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government; and the


(iii) Sale and lease of, and the permission to use (other than on casual or transient basis) Federal property or any interest in such property without consideration or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration which is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient, or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale or lease to the recipient.


(e) *Administrative Law Judge* means an individual appointed pursuant to section 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act to conduct proceedings subject to this part.


(f) *Primary recipient* means any recipient which is authorized or required to extend Federal financial assistance to another recipient.


(g) *Program or activity* and *program* mean all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance: 


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or 


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government; 


(2)(i) A college, university or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 8801), system of vocational education, or other school system; 


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship— 


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or 


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or 


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or 


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.


(h) *Recipient* means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, or organization, or other entity, or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient, including any successor, assignee, or transferee thereof, but such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.


(i) *Responsible NRC official* means the Director of the Office of Small Business and Civil Rights or any other officer to whom the Executive Director for Operations has delegated the authority to act.


(j) *United States* means the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, and the territories and possessions of the United States, and the term “State” means any one of the foregoing.



---

[N] [29 FR 19277, Dec. 31, 1964, as amended at 45 FR 14535, Mar. 6, 1980; 45 FR 18905, Mar. 24, 1980. Redesignated and amended at 52 FR 25358, July 7, 1987; 63 FR 15742, Apr. 1, 1998; 68 FR 51344, Aug. 26, 2003; 68 FR 75389, Dec. 31, 2003]




