# § 1.381(c)(6)-1   Depreciation method.

(a) *Carryover requirement*—(1) *Distributions in taxable years ending before July 25, 1969.* (i) Section 381(c)(6) provides that if, in a transaction in a taxable year which ends before July 25, 1969, to which section 381(a) applies, an acquiring corporation acquires depreciable property from a distributor or transferor corporation which computes its allowance for the depreciation of the property under section 167(b)(2), (3), or (4), the acquiring corporation shall compute its depreciation allowance by the same method used by the distributor or transferor corporation with respect to such property. Thus, if the distributor or transferor corporation used the sum of the years-digits method under section 167(b)(3) with respect to an asset distributed or transferred to an acquiring corporation, the acquiring corporation will be required to use the sum of the years-digits method with respect to such asset acquired. The computation of the depreciation allowance with respect to the property acquired shall be made under the provisions of section 167 and the regulations thereunder. 


(ii) The rules provided in section 381(c)(6) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph will apply only with respect to that part or all of the basis of the property in the hands of the acquiring corporation immediately after the date of distribution or transfer as does not exceed the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation on the date of the distribution or transfer. For this purpose, the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation shall be the adjusted basis provided in section 1011 for the purpose of determining gain on the sale or other disposition of such property. For provisions defining the date of distribution or transfer see § 1.381(b)-1(b). 


(2) *Distributions in taxable years ending after July 24, 1969.* (i) Section 381(c)(6) provides that if, in a transaction in a taxable year ending after July 24, 1969, to which section 381(a) applies, an acquiring corporation acquires depreciable property from a distributor or transferor corporation which computes its allowances for the depreciation of the property under subsection (b), (j), or (k) of section 167, the acquiring corporation shall compute its depreciation allowance by the same method used by the distributor or transferor corporation with respect to such property. Thus, if the distributor or transferor corporation used the straight line method under section 167(b)(1) with respect to an asset distributed or transferred to an acquiring corporation, the acquiring corporation will be required to use the straight line method with respect to such asset. Similarly, if the distributor or transferor corporation elected to compute depreciation under section 167(k) with respect to property attributable to rehabilitation expenditures, and such property is transferred to an acquiring corporation, the acquiring corporation will be required to compute depreciation under section 167(k) with respect to the property acquired. The computation of the depreciation allowance with respect to the property acquired shall be made under the provisions of section 167 and the regulations thereunder. 


(ii) The rules provided in section 381(c)(6) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall apply only with respect to that part or all of the basis of the property in the hands of the acquiring corporation immediately after the date of distribution or transfer as does not exceed the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation on the date of the distribution or transfer. For this purpose, the basis of the property in the hands of the distributor or transferor corporation shall be the adjusted basis provided in section 1011 for the purpose of determining gain on the sale or other disposition of such property. For provisions defining the date of distribution or transfer see § 1.38(b)-1(b). 


(b) *Portion in excess of distributor or transferor corporation's basis*—(1) *General rule.* With respect to that part of the basis of the depreciable property (other than certain section 1250 property described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) which in the hands of the acquiring corporation exceeds the adjusted basis to the distributor or transferor corporation, the acquiring corporation may use any reasonable method of computing depreciation, other than the methods provided in section 167(b)(2), (3), or (4). See paragraph (b) of § 1.167(b)-0 for methods which are acceptable under section 167(a) with respect to such property. See also sections 334(b)(1) and 362(b) for the determination of basis of property in the hands of the acquiring corporation in connection with a transaction to which section 381(a) applies. 


(2) *Section 1250 property.* With respect to that part of the basis of section 1250 property acquired after July 24, 1969, which in the hands of the acquiring corporation exceeds the adjusted basis to the distributor or transferor corporation, the acquiring corporation shall be subject to the limitations contained in section 167(j)(4) (relating to used section 1250 property) or 167(j)(5) (relating to used residential rental property). Thus, for example, if section 1250 property which is not residential rental property is acquired in a section 381(a) transaction after July 24, 1969, the straight line method of depreciation (or other method allowable under section 167(j)(4)(B)) is the only acceptable method with respect to that portion of the basis of the property which, in the hands of the acquiring corporation, exceeds the adjusted basis to the transferor or distributor corporation. 


(c) *Records required.* Records shall be maintained in sufficient detail to identify any depreciable property to which this section applies, and to establish the basis thereof. 


(d) *Agreement under section 167(d).* To the extent not inconsistent with paragraph (b) of this section, an acquiring corporation shall be treated as the distributor or transferor corporation in the case of an agreement between the distributor or transferor corporation and the district director under section 167(d) and § 1.167(d)-1 with respect to property to which section 381(c)(6) and this section apply. Thus, in the case where the basis of an asset in the hands of an acquiring corporation exceeds the basis of such asset in the hands of the distributor or the transferor corporation, such an agreement will not have the effect of permitting the acquiring corporation to compute its depreciation allowance with respect to such excess basis under the methods provided in section 167(b)(2), (3), or (4). However, the provisions of the agreement will continue to apply with respect to the useful life of the asset. 


(e) *Change of method of depreciation.* Although the acquiring corporation is required to use the method of computing depreciation used by the distributor or transferor with respect to depreciable property to which this section applies, such acquiring corporation may use another method with respect to such property if consent of the Commissioner is obtained in accordance with paragraph (e) of § 1.446-1. Further, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of § 1.167(e)-1 the acquiring corporation may change from the declining balance method described in section 167(b)(2) to the straight line method without consent of the Commissioner. 


(f) *Successive transactions to which* section 381(a) applies. The provisions of this section shall apply in the case of successive transactions to which section 381(a) applies. Thus, for example, if X Corporation, a transferor corporation, used the sum of the years-digits method under section 167(b)(3) with respect to an asset transferred to Y Corporation, an acquiring corporation, in a transaction to which section 381(a) applies, and subsequently Y Corporation, using the same method, transfers such asset to Z Corporation in a transaction to which section 381(a) also applies, then Z Corporation shall be required to use the sum of the years-digits method with respect to such asset. 


(g) *Illustration.* The application of this section may be illustrated by the following example: 



---

[N] [T.D. 6559, 26 FR 2983, Apr. 7, 1961, as amended by T.D. 7166, 37 FR 5246, Mar. 11, 1972; 37 FR 6400, Mar. 29, 1972] 




