# § 63.6650   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 7 of this subpart that applies to you.


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the date in Table 7 of this subpart and according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(9) of this section.


(1) For semiannual Compliance reports, the first Compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.6595 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.6595.


(2) For semiannual Compliance reports, the first Compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.6595.


(3) For semiannual Compliance reports, each subsequent Compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) For semiannual Compliance reports, each subsequent Compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each stationary RICE that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6 (a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent Compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.


(6) For annual Compliance reports, the first Compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.6595 and ending on December 31.


(7) For annual Compliance reports, the first Compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31 following the end of the first calendar year after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.6595.


(8) For annual Compliance reports, each subsequent Compliance report must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.


(9) For annual Compliance reports, each subsequent Compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31.




(c) The Compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.




(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report must include the starting and ending date and time, the duration (in hours), and a brief description for each malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.6605(b), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.








(5) If there are no deviations from any emission or operating limitations that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission or operating limitations during the reporting period.


(6) If there were no periods during which the continuous monitoring system (CMS), including CEMS and CPMS, was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(7) Engine site rating in brake HP, year construction of the engine commenced (as defined in § 63.2, where the exact year is not known, provide the best estimate), and type of engine (CI, SI 2SLB, SI 4SLB, or SI 4SRB).


(8) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.


(9) An engine can be claimed as exempt from reporting coordinates (latitude/longitude) via CEDRI if:


(i) During the reporting period, the engine will be owned by, or operated by or for, an agency of the Federal Government responsible for national defense; and


(ii) The agency determines that disclosing the coordinates to the general public would be a threat to national security.


(d) For each deviation from an emission or operating limitation that occurs for a stationary RICE where you are not using a CMS to comply with the emission or operating limitations in this subpart, the Compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section and the information in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The total operating time (in hours) of the stationary RICE at which the deviation occurred during the reporting period.


(2) Information on the number, duration (in hours), and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(3) A description of any changes in processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(e) For each deviation from an emission or operating limitation occurring for a stationary RICE where you are using a CMS to comply with the emission and operating limitations in this subpart, you must include information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) and (e)(1) through (13) of this section.










(1) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(2) The start and end date and time and the duration (in hours) that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(3) The start and end date and time and the duration (in hours) that each CMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).






(4) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of malfunction or during another period.


(5) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(6) A breakdown of the total duration (in hours) of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(7) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of CMS downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the stationary RICE at which the CMS downtime occurred during that reporting period.


















(8) An identification of each parameter and pollutant (CO or formaldehyde) that was monitored at the stationary RICE.


(9) [Reserved]


(10) A brief description of the CMS.


(11) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit.


(12) A description of any changes in CMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(13) The total operating time of the stationary RICE at which the deviation occurred during the reporting period.


(f) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6 (a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a Compliance report pursuant to table 7 of this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the Compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission or operating limitation in this subpart, submission of the Compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a Compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority. Beginning on February 26, 2025, the semiannual and annual compliance report required in table 7 of this subpart must be submitted according to paragraph (i) of this section. Only those elements required under this subpart are required to be submitted according to paragraph (i) of this section.






(g) If you are operating as a new or reconstructed stationary RICE which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must submit an annual report according to Table 7 of this subpart by the date specified unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, according to the information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. You must report the data specified in (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.


(1) Fuel flow rate of each fuel and the heating values that were used in your calculations. You must also demonstrate that the percentage of heat input provided by landfill gas or digester gas is equivalent to 10 percent or more of the total fuel consumption on an annual basis.


(2) The operating limits provided in your federally enforceable permit, and any deviations from these limits.


(3) Any problems or errors suspected with the meters.


(h) If you own or operate an emergency stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 100 brake HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.






(1) The report must contain the following information:


(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.


(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(iii) Engine site rating in brake HP, year construction of the engine commenced (as defined in § 63.2, where the exact year is not known, provide the best estimate), and type of engine (CI, SI 2SLB, SI 4SLB, or SI 4SRB).






(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.


(v)-(vi) [Reserved]


(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.


(viii) If there were no deviations from the fuel requirements in § 63.6604 that apply to the engine (if any), a statement that there were no deviations from the fuel requirements during the reporting period.


(ix) If there were deviations from the fuel requirements in § 63.6604 that apply to the engine (if any), information on the number, duration (in hours), and cause of deviations, and the corrective action taken.








(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.




(3) Before February 26, 2025, the annual report must be submitted electronically using the subpart specific reporting form in the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). However, if the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the written report must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. Beginning on February 26, 2025, the annual report must be submitted according to paragraph (i) of this section.


(i) Beginning on February 26, 2025 for the annual report specified in § 63.6650(h) and February 26, 2025 or one year after the report becomes available in CEDRI, whichever is later for all other semiannual or annual reports, submit all semiannual and annual subsequent compliance reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any CBI must be submitted according to the procedures in § 63.6645(h). The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.





---

[N] [69 FR 33506, June 15, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 9677, Mar. 3, 2010; 78 FR 6705, Jan. 30, 2013; 87 FR 48607, Aug. 10, 2022; 89 FR 70517, Aug. 30, 2024]












