# § 35.102   Definitions of terms.

Terms are defined as follows when they are used in this subpart. 


*Allotment.* EPA's calculation of the funds that may be available to an eligible recipient for an environmental program grant. An allotment is not an entitlement. 


*Consolidated grant.* A single grant made to a recipient consolidating funds from more than one environmental grant program. After the award is made, recipients must account for grant funds in accordance with the funds' original environmental program sources. Consolidated grants are not Performance Partnership Grants. 


*Environmental program.* A program for which EPA awards grants under the authorities listed in § 35.101. The grants are subject to the requirements of this subpart. 


*Funding period.* The period of time specified in the grant agreement during which the recipient may expend or obligate funds for the purposes set forth in the agreement. 


*National program guidance.* Guidance issued by EPA's National Program Managers for establishing and maintaining effective environmental programs. This guidance establishes national goals, objectives, and priorities as well as the core performance measures and other information to be used in monitoring progress. The guidance may also set out specific environmental strategies, criteria for evaluating programs, and other elements of program implementation. 


*Outcome.* The environmental result, effect, or consequence that will occur from carrying out an environmental program or activity that is related to an environmental or programmatic goal or objective. Outcomes must be quantitative, and they may not necessarily be achievable during a grant funding period. See “output.” 


*Output.* An environmental activity or effort and associated work products related to an environmental goal or objective that will be produced or provided over a period of time or by a specified date. Outputs may be quantitative or qualitative but must be measurable during a grant funding period. See “outcome.” 


*Performance Partnership Agreement.* A negotiated agreement signed by the EPA Regional Administrator and an appropriate official of a State agency and designated as a Performance Partnership Agreement. Such agreements typically set out jointly developed goals, objectives, and priorities; the strategies to be used in meeting them; the roles and responsibilities of the State and EPA; and the measures to be used in assessing progress. A Performance Partnership Agreement may be used as all or part of a work plan for a grant if it meets the requirements for a work plan set out in § 35.107. 


*Performance Partnership Grant.* A single grant combining funds from more than one environmental program. A Performance Partnership Grant may provide for administrative savings or programmatic flexibility to direct grant resources where they are most needed to address public health and environmental priorities (see also § 35.130). Each Performance Partnership Grant has a single, integrated budget and recipients do not need to account for grant funds in accordance with the funds' original environmental program sources. 


*Planning target.* The amount of funds that the Regional Administrator suggests a grant applicant consider in developing its application, including the work plan, for an environmental program. 


*Regional supplemental guidance.* Guidance to environmental program applicants prepared by the Regional Administrator, based on the national program guidance and specific regional and applicant circumstances, for use in preparing a grant application. 


*Work plan commitments.* The outputs and outcomes associated with each work plan component, as established in the grant agreement. 


*Work plan component.* A negotiated set or group of work plan commitments established in the grant agreement. A work plan may have one or more work plan components. 




