# § 63.658   Fenceline monitoring provisions.

(a) The owner or operator shall conduct sampling along the facility property boundary and analyze the samples in accordance with Methods 325A and 325B of appendix A of this part and paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section.


(b) The target analyte is benzene.


(c) The owner or operator shall determine passive monitor locations in accordance with Section 8.2 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(1) As it pertains to this subpart, known sources of VOCs, as used in Section 8.2.1.3 in Method 325A of appendix A of this part for siting passive monitors, means a wastewater treatment unit, process unit, or any emission source requiring control according to the requirements of this subpart, including marine vessel loading operations. For marine vessel loading operations, one passive monitor should be sited on the shoreline adjacent to the dock. For this subpart, an additional monitor is not required if the only emission sources within 50 meters of the monitoring boundary are equipment leak sources satisfying all of the conditions in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The equipment leak sources in organic HAP service within 50 meters of the monitoring boundary are limited to valves, pumps, connectors, sampling connections, and open-ended lines. If compressors, pressure relief devices, or agitators in organic HAP service are present within 50 meters of the monitoring boundary, the additional passive monitoring location specified in Section 8.2.1.3 in Method 325A of appendix A of this part must be used.


(ii) All equipment leak sources in gas or light liquid service (and in organic HAP service), including valves, pumps, connectors, sampling connections and open-ended lines, must be monitored using EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 no less frequently than quarterly with no provisions for skip period monitoring, or according to the provisions of § 63.11(c) Alternative Work practice for monitoring equipment for leaks. For the purpose of this provision, a leak is detected if the instrument reading equals or exceeds the applicable limits in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section:


(A) For valves, pumps or connectors at an existing source, an instrument reading of 10,000 ppmv.


(B) For valves or connectors at a new source, an instrument reading of 500 ppmv.


(C) For pumps at a new source, an instrument reading of 2,000 ppmv.


(D) For sampling connections or open-ended lines, an instrument reading of 500 ppmv above background.


(E) For equipment monitored according to the Alternative Work practice for monitoring equipment for leaks, the leak definitions contained in § 63.11 (c)(6)(i) through (iii).


(iii) All equipment leak sources in organic HAP service, including sources in gas, light liquid and heavy liquid service, must be inspected using visual, audible, olfactory, or any other detection method at least monthly. A leak is detected if the inspection identifies a potential leak to the atmosphere or if there are indications of liquids dripping.


(iv) All leaks identified by the monitoring or inspections specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section must be repaired no later than 15 calendar days after it is detected with no provisions for delay of repair. If a repair is not completed within 15 calendar days, the additional passive monitor specified in Section 8.2.1.3 in Method 325A of appendix A of this part must be used.


(2) The owner or operator may collect one or more background samples if the owner or operator believes that an offsite upwind source or an onsite source excluded under § 63.640(g) may influence the sampler measurements. If the owner or operator elects to collect one or more background samples, the owner or operator must develop and submit a site-specific monitoring plan for approval according to the requirements in paragraph (i) of this section. Upon approval of the site-specific monitoring plan, the background sampler(s) should be operated co-currently with the routine samplers.


(3) If there are 19 or fewer monitoring locations, the owner or operator shall collect at least one co-located duplicate sample per sampling period and at least one field blank per sampling period. If there are 20 or more monitoring locations, the owner or operator shall collect at least two co-located duplicate samples per sampling period and at least one field blank per sampling period. The co-located duplicates may be collected at any of the perimeter sampling 

(4) The owner or operator shall follow the procedure in Section 9.6 of Method 325B of appendix A of this part to determine the detection limit of benzene for each sampler used to collect samples, background samples (if the owner or operator elects to do so), co-located samples and blanks.


(d) The owner or operator shall collect and record meteorological data according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) If a near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section or if an alternative test method is used that provides time-resolved measurements, the owner or operator shall:


(i) Use an on-site meteorological station in accordance with Section 8.3 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(ii) Collect and record hourly average meteorological data, including temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and wind direction and calculate daily unit vector wind direction and daily sigma theta.


(2) For cases other than those specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall collect and record sampling period average temperature and barometric pressure using either an on-site meteorological station in accordance with Section 8.3.1 through 8.3.3 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part or, alternatively, using data from a United States Weather Service (USWS) meteorological station provided the USWS meteorological station is within 40 kilometers (25 miles) of the refinery.


(3) If an on-site meteorological station is used, the owner or operator shall follow the calibration and standardization procedures for meteorological measurements in EPA-454/B-08-002 (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14).


(e) The owner or operator shall use a sampling period and sampling frequency as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Sampling period.* A 14-day sampling period shall be used, unless a shorter sampling period is determined to be necessary under paragraph (g) or (i) of this section. A sampling period is defined as the period during which sampling tube is deployed at a specific sampling location with the diffusive sampling end cap in-place and does not include the time required to analyze the sample. For the purpose of this subpart, a 14-day sampling period may be no shorter than 13 calendar days and no longer than 15 calendar days, but the routine sampling period shall be 14 calendar days.


(2) *Base sampling frequency.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the frequency of sample collection shall be once each contiguous 14-day sampling period, such that the beginning of the next 14-day sampling period begins immediately upon the completion of the previous 14-day sampling period.


(3) *Alternative sampling frequency for burden reduction.* When an individual monitor consistently achieves results at or below 0.9 µg/m
3, the owner or operator may elect to use the applicable minimum sampling frequency specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for that monitoring site. When calculating Δc for the monitoring period when using this alternative for burden reduction, zero shall be substituted for the sample result for the monitoring site for any period where a sample is not taken.


(i) If every sample at a monitoring site is at or below 0.9 µg/m
3 for 2 years (52 consecutive samples), every other sampling period can be skipped for that monitoring site, *i.e.,* sampling will occur approximately once per month.


(ii) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section is at or below 0.9 µg/m
3 for 2 years (*i.e.,* 26 consecutive “monthly” samples), five 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling, *i.e.,* sampling will occur approximately once per quarter.


(iii) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section is at or below 0.9 µg/m
3 for 2 years (*i.e.,* 8 consecutive quarterly samples), twelve 14-day sampling periods can be skipped for that monitoring site following each period of sampling, *i.e.,* sampling will occur twice a year.


(iv) If every sample at a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section is at or below 0.9 µg/m
3 for 2 years (*i.e.,* 4 consecutive semiannual samples), only one sample per year is required for that monitoring site. For yearly sampling, samples shall occur at least 10 months but no more than 14 months apart.


(v) If at any time a sample for a monitoring site that is monitored at the frequency specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section returns a result that is above 0.9 µg/m
3, the sampling site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for one quarter (six 14-day sampling periods). If every sample collected during this quarter is at or below 0.9 µg/m
3 , the owner or operator may revert back to the reduced monitoring schedule applicable for that monitoring site prior to the sample reading exceeding 0.9 µg/m
3 If any sample collected during this quarter is above 0.9 µg/m
3, that monitoring site must return to the original sampling requirements of contiguous 14-day sampling periods with no skip periods for a minimum of two years. The burden reduction requirements can be used again for that monitoring site once the requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section are met again, *i.e.,* after 52 contiguous 14-day samples with no results above 0.9 µg/m
3 .


(f) Within 45 days of completion of each sampling period, the owner or operator shall determine whether the results are above or below the action level as follows:


(1) The owner or operator shall determine the facility impact on the benzene concentration (Δc) for each 14-day sampling period according to either paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Except when near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine the highest and lowest sample results for benzene concentrations from the sample pool and calculate Δc as the difference in these concentrations. Co-located samples must be averaged together for the purposes of determining the benzene concentration for that sampling location, and, if applicable, for determining Δc. The owner or operator shall adhere to the following procedures when one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene:


(A) If the lowest detected value of benzene is below detection, the owner or operator shall use zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(B) If all sample results are below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the highest sample result and zero as the lowest sample result when calculating Δc.


(ii) When near-field source correction is used as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine Δc using the calculation protocols outlined in the approved site-specific monitoring plan and in paragraph (i) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator shall calculate the annual average Δc based on the average of the 26 most recent 14-day sampling periods. The owner or operator shall update this annual average value after receiving the results of each subsequent 14-day sampling period.


(3) The action level for benzene is 9 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) on an annual average basis. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is less than or equal to 9 µg/m
3, the concentration is below the action level. If the annual average Δc value for benzene is greater than 9 µg/m
3, the concentration is above the action level, and the owner or operator shall conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(g) Within 5 days of determining that the action level has been exceeded for any annual average Δc and no longer than 50 days after completion of the sampling period, the owner or operator shall initiate a root cause analysis to determine the cause of such exceedance and to determine appropriate corrective action, such as those described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section. The root cause analysis and initial corrective action analysis shall be completed and initial corrective actions taken no later than 45 days after determining there is an exceedance. Root cause analysis and corrective action may include, but is not limited to:


(1) Leak inspection using Method 21 of part 60, appendix A-7 of this chapter and repairing any leaks found.


(2) Leak inspection using optical gas imaging and repairing any leaks found.


(3) Visual inspection to determine the cause of the high benzene emissions and implementing repairs to reduce the level of emissions.


(4) Employing progressively more frequent sampling, analysis and meteorology (*e.g.,* using shorter sampling periods for Methods 325A and 325B of appendix A of this part, or using active sampling techniques).


(h) If, upon completion of the corrective action analysis and corrective actions such as those described in paragraph (g) of this section, the Δc value for the next 14-day sampling period for which the sampling start time begins after the completion of the corrective actions is greater than 9 µg/m
3 or if all corrective action measures identified require more than 45 days to implement, the owner or operator shall develop a corrective action plan that describes the corrective action(s) completed to date, additional measures that the owner or operator proposes to employ to reduce fenceline concentrations below the action level, and a schedule for completion of these measures. The owner or operator shall submit the corrective action plan to the Administrator within 60 days after receiving the analytical results indicating that the Δc value for the 14-day sampling period following the completion of the initial corrective action is greater than 9 µg/m
3 or, if no initial corrective actions were identified, no later than 60 days following the completion of the corrective action analysis required in paragraph (g) of this section.


(i) An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a site-specific monitoring plan to account for offsite upwind sources or onsite sources excluded under § 63.640(g) according to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit a site-specific monitoring plan and receive approval of the site-specific monitoring plan prior to using the near-field source alternative calculation for determining Δc provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The site-specific monitoring plan shall include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The procedures in Section 12 of Method 325A of appendix A of this part are not required, but may be used, if applicable, when determining near-field source contributions.


(i) Identification of the near-field source or sources. For onsite sources, documentation that the onsite source is excluded under § 63.640(g) and identification of the specific provision in § 63.640(g) that applies to the source.


(ii) Location of the additional monitoring stations that shall be used to determine the uniform background concentration and the near-field source concentration contribution.


(iii) Identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source. If more than one near-field source is present, identify the near-field source or sources that are expected to contribute to the concentration at that monitoring location.


(iv) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.


(v) If more frequent monitoring or a monitoring station other than a passive diffusive tube monitoring station is proposed, provide a detailed description of the measurement methods, measurement frequency, and recording frequency for determining the uniform background or near-field source concentration contribution.


(2) When an approved site-specific monitoring plan is used, the owner or operator shall determine Δc for comparison with the 9 µg/m
3 action level using the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) For each monitoring location, calculate Δc_i_ using the following equation.


(ii) When one or more samples for the sampling period are below the method detection limit for benzene, adhere to the following procedures:


(A) If the benzene concentration at the monitoring location used for the uniform background concentration is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use zero for UB for that monitoring period.


(B) If the benzene concentration at the monitoring location(s) used to determine the near-field source contributing concentration is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use zero for the monitoring location concentration when calculating NFS_i_ for that monitoring period.


(C) If a fenceline monitoring location sample result is below the method detection limit, the owner or operator shall use the method detection limit as the sample result.


(iii) Determine Δc for the monitoring period as the maximum value of Δc_i_ from all of the fenceline monitoring locations for that monitoring period.


(3) The site-specific monitoring plan shall be submitted and approved as described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for approval.


(ii) The site-specific monitoring plan shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to *refineryrtr@epa.gov.*

(iii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove the plan in 90 days. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing, or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 90-day period shall begin when the Administrator receives the plan.


(iv) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the site-specific monitoring plan and disapproves the plan in writing, the owner or operator may revise and resubmit the site-specific monitoring plan following the requirements in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The 90-day period starts over with the resubmission of the revised monitoring plan.


(4) The approval by the Administrator of a site-specific monitoring plan will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request for a site-specific monitoring plan. Factors that the Administrator will consider in reviewing the request for a site-specific monitoring plan include, but are not limited to, those described in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The identification of the near-field source or sources. For onsite sources, the documentation provided that the onsite source is excluded under § 63.640(g).


(ii) The monitoring location selected to determine the uniform background concentration or an indication that no uniform background concentration monitor will be used.


(iii) The location(s) selected for additional monitoring to determine the near-field source concentration contribution.


(iv) The identification of the fenceline monitoring locations impacted by the near-field source or sources.


(v) The appropriateness of the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the near-field source concentration contribution for each monitoring location.


(vi) If more frequent monitoring is proposed, the adequacy of the description of the measurement and recording frequency proposed and the adequacy of the rationale for using the alternative monitoring frequency.


(j) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.655(h) and (i).


(k) As outlined in § 63.7(f), the owner or operator may submit a request for an alternative test method. At a minimum, the request must follow the requirements outlined in paragraphs (k)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The alternative method may be used in lieu of all or a partial number of passive samplers required in Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(2) The alternative method must be validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part or contain performance based procedures and indicators to ensure self-validation.


(3) The method detection limit must nominally be at least an order of magnitude below the action level, *i.e.,* 0.9 µg/m
3 benzene. The alternate test method must describe the procedures used to provide field verification of the detection limit.


(4) The spatial coverage must be equal to or better than the spatial coverage provided in Method 325A of appendix A of this part.


(i) For path average concentration open-path instruments, the physical path length of the measurement shall be no more than a passive sample footprint (the spacing that would be provided by the sorbent traps when following Method 325A). For example, if Method 325A requires spacing monitors A and B 610 meters (2000 feet) apart, then the physical path length limit for the measurement at that portion of the fenceline shall be no more than 610 meters (2000 feet).


(ii) For range resolved open-path instrument or approach, the instrument or approach must be able to resolve an average concentration over each passive sampler footprint within the path length of the instrument.


(iii) The extra samplers required in Sections 8.2.1.3 of Method 325A may be omitted when they fall within the path length of an open-path instrument.


(5) At a minimum, non-integrating alternative test methods must provide a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.


(6) For alternative test methods capable of real time measurements (less than a 5 minute sampling and analysis cycle), the alternative test method may allow for elimination of data points corresponding to outside emission sources for purpose of calculation of the high point for the two week average. The alternative test method approach must have wind speed, direction and stability class of the same time resolution and within the footprint of the instrument.


(7) For purposes of averaging data points to determine the Δc for the 14-day average high sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use the method detection limit. For purposes of averaging data points for the 14-day average low sample result, all results measured under the method detection limit must use zero.



---

[N] [80 FR 75254, Dec. 1, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 45241, July 13, 2016; 83 FR 60718, Nov. 26, 2018]




