# § 52.2088   Control strategy: Ozone.

(a) *Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management on September 21, 1998.* These revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirement of section 182(c)(2)(B), and the contingency measure requirements of section 182(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act, for the Providence serious ozone nonattainment area.


(b) Approval—Revisions to the state implementation plan submitted by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management on March 24, 2003. The revisions are for the purpose of satisfying the one-hour ozone attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(c)(2)(A) of the Clean Air Act, for the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes a one-hour attainment date of November 15, 2007 for the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area, and approves the contingency measures for purposes of attainment. This revision establishes motor vehicle emissions budgets for 2007 of 30.68 tons per day of volatile organic compounds and 33.97 tons per day of nitrogen oxides to be used in transportation conformity in the Rhode Island serious ozone nonattainment area. Rhode Island also commits to conduct a mid-course review to assess modeling and monitoring progress achieved towards the goal of attainment by 2007, and to submit the results to EPA by December 31, 2004.


(c) Determination of Attainment. Effective July 6, 2010, EPA is determining that the Providence (All of Rhode Island) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (*see* 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the 1997 ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Providence (All of Rhode Island) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area, this determination shall no longer apply.


(d) *Determination of Attainment.* Effective November 22, 2010, EPA is determining that the Providence (All of Rhode Island) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area has attained the 1997 8-hour ozone standard based on 2007-2009 monitoring data. Under the provisions of EPA's ozone implementation rule (see 40 CFR 51.918), this determination suspends the reasonable further progress and attainment demonstration requirements of section 182(b)(1) and related requirements of section 172(c)(9) of the Clean Air Act for as long as the area does not monitor any violations of the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. If a violation of the 1997 ozone NAAQS is monitored in the Providence (All of Rhode Island) 8-hour ozone nonattainment area, this determination shall no longer apply. In addition, this area met its June 15, 2010 attainment deadline for the 1997 ozone standard.


(e) Revisions to the State Implementation Plan submitted by the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management on April 30, 2008. The revision is for the purpose of satisfying the rate of progress requirement of section 182(b)(1) from 2002 through 2008, and the contingency measure requirement of sections 172(c)(9) and of the Clean Air Act, for the Providence moderate ozone nonattainment area. The revision establishes motor vehicle emission budgets for 2008 of 24.64 tons per day of volatile organic compounds and 28.26 tons per day of nitrogen oxides to be used in transportation conformity in the Providence moderate 8-hour ozone nonattainment area.



---

[N] [66 FR 30815, June 8, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 16724, Apr. 7, 2003; 75 FR 31290, June 3, 2010; 75 FR 64951, Oct. 22, 2010; 77 FR 50601, Aug. 22, 2012]




