# § 177.1060   

*n*-Alkylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers identified in this section may be safely used as articles or components of articles intended for use in contact with food subject to provisions of this section and part 174 of this chapter.


(a) *Identity.* For the purpose of this section, *n*-alkylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers are copolymers obtained by reaction of substances permitted by § 177.1010(a)(1), (2), and (3) with the following substance: Monomethylamine (CAS Reg. No. 74-89-5), to form *n-*methylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers.


(b) *Adjuvants.* The copolymers identified in paragraph (a) of this section may contain adjuvant substances required in their production. The optional adjuvant substances required in the production of the basic polymer may include substances permitted for such use by applicable regulations, as set forth in part 174 of this chapter.


(c) *Specifications.* Maximum nitrogen content of the copolymer determined by micro-Kjeldahl analysis, shall not exceed 8 percent.


(d) *Limitations.* (1) The *n-*alkylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers in the finished form in which they shall contact food, when extracted with the solvent or solvents characterizing the type of food and under the conditions of time and temperature described in tables 1 and 2 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter, shall yield extractives not to exceed the limitations of § 177.1010(b) of this chapter, when prepared as strips, as described in § 177.1010(c)(2) of this chapter.


(2) The *n-*alkylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers shall not be used as polymer modifiers in vinyl chloride homo- or copolymers.


(e) *Conditions of use.* The *n-*alkylglutarimide/acrylic copolymers are used as articles or components of articles (other than articles composed of vinyl chloride homo- or copolymers) intended for use in contact with all foods except beverages containing more than 8 percent alcohol under conditions of use D, E, F, and G as described in table 2 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter.



---

[N] [54 FR 20382, May 11, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 17098, Apr. 1, 1993]




