# ยง 583.115   What definitions do I need to know?

The definitions at 30 CFR 550.105 apply to this part. In addition, when used in this part, the following terms will have the meaning given below:


*Agreement* means a negotiated noncompetitive agreement that authorizes a person to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources in a program of, or project for, shore protection, beach restoration or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken by one or more Federal, state or local government agencies, or in a construction project authorized by, or funded in whole or in part by, the Federal government. The form of the agreement will be a Memorandum of Agreement (if one or more of the parties to the agreement, other than BOEM, is a Federal agency) or a lease (if all of the parties to the agreement other than BOEM are non-Federal agencies or persons).


*Amendment* means a modification to the agreement between BOEM and the parties to the agreement that extends or modifies the terms of the agreement.


*Applicant* means any person proposing to use OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources for a shore protection, beach restoration or coastal wetlands restoration project undertaken by a Federal, state or local government agency, or a construction project authorized by, or funded in whole or in part by, the Federal Government. If multiple persons or Federal, state, or local governments, other than BOEM, partner on a project they will be considered joint applicants.


*BOEM* means the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI).


*Borrow area* means the offshore geographic area(s) or region(s) where OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources have been identified for potential use in a specific project.


*Federal agency* means any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States.


*Local government* means the governing authority at the county or city level with jurisdiction to administer a particular project(s).


*Modification* means the process whereby parties to an agreement and BOEM mutually agree to change, alter or amend an existing agreement.


*Placement area* means the geographic area in which OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources, used by agreement, will be placed pursuant to that agreement.


*Program* means a group of related projects that may be the subject of a negotiated noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources.


*Project* means an undertaking that may be the subject of a negotiated noncompetitive agreement for the use of OCS sand, gravel, and/or shell resources.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.




