# § 165.0971   Regulated Navigation Area; NW Natural Gasco Sediments Site Field Pilot Study, Willamette River, Portland, OR.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a regulated navigation area (RNA): All navigable waters of the Willamette River, from surface to bottom, adjacent to the NW Natural Portland Gas Manufacturing (PGM) site, encompassed by a line connecting the following points beginning at 45°34′45.65″ N, 122°45′21.73″ W; thence to 45°34′45.32″ N, 122°45′22.00″ W; thence to 45°34′45.39″ N, 122°45′21.09″ W; thence to 45°34′45.06″ N, 122°45′21.36″ W; and back to the beginning point. These coordinates are based on North American Datum 83 (NAD 83). Geographically this location starts on the west bank of the Willamette River at approximately river mile 6.5.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, *designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard coxswain, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Sector Columbia River (COTP) in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* In addition to the general RNA regulations in § 165.13, the following regulations apply to the RNA described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) Sediment disturbance activities including anchoring, drag lines, trawling and motoring are prohibited to ensure the treated sediment surface and sampling ports are not disturbed. The sampling ports must remain intact and undisturbed to avoid impacting the EPA-approved sampling. All vessels and persons are prohibited from anchoring, dredging, laying cable, dragging, seining, bottom fishing, conducting salvage operations, or any other activity which could potentially disturb the riverbed in the designated area. Vessels may otherwise transit or navigate within this area.


(2) The prohibition described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to vessels or persons engaged in activities associated with remediation efforts in the NW Natural Gasco Sediment Site, provided that the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Sector Columbia River (COTP) is given advance notice of those activities by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).


(d) *Contact information.* If you observe violations of the regulations in this section, you may notify the COTP by email, at *SCRWWM@USCG.MIL,* or by phone, 503-240-9319.



---

[N] [USCG-2023-0971, 89 FR 45769, May 24, 2024]








