# ยง 210.18   Summary determinations.

(a) *Motions for summary determinations.* Any party may move with any necessary supporting affidavits for a summary determination in its favor upon all or any part of the issues to be determined in the investigation. Counsel or other representatives in support of the complaint may so move at any time after 20 days following the date of service of the complaint and notice instituting the investigation. Any other party or a respondent may so move at any time after the date of publication of the notice of investigation in the _Federal Register._ Any such motion by any party in connection with the issue of permanent relief, however, must be filed at least 60 days before the date fixed for any hearing provided for in ยง 210.36(a)(1). Notwithstanding any other rule, the deadline for filing summary determinations shall be computed by counting backward at least 60 days including the first calendar day prior to the date the hearing is scheduled to commence. If the end of the 60 day period falls on a weekend or holiday, the period extends until the end of the next business day. Under exceptional circumstances and upon motion, the presiding administrative law judge may determine that good cause exists to permit a summary determination motion to be filed out of time.




(b) *Opposing affidavits; oral argument; time and basis for determination.* Any nonmoving party may file opposing affidavits within ten (10) days after service of the motion for summary determination. At the discretion of the administrative law judge or at the request of any party, the administrative law judge may set the matter for oral argument and call for the submission of briefs or memoranda. The determination sought by the moving party shall be rendered if pleadings and any depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a summary determination as a matter of law.


(c) *Affidavits.* Supporting and opposing affidavits shall be made on personal knowledge, shall set forth such facts as would be admissible in evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein. Sworn or certified copies of all papers or parts thereof referred to in an affidavit shall be attached thereto or served therewith. The administrative law judge may permit affidavits to be supplemented or opposed by depositions, answers to interrogatories, or further affidavits. When a motion for summary determination is made and supported as provided in this section, a party opposing the motion may not rest upon the mere allegations or denials of the opposing party's pleading, but the opposing party's response, by affidavits, answers to interrogatories, or as otherwise provided in this section, must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue of fact for the evidentiary hearing under ยง 210.36(a)(1) or (2). If the opposing party does not so respond, a summary determination, if appropriate, shall be rendered against the opposing party. 


(d) *Refusal of application for summary determination; continuances and other orders.* Should it appear from the affidavits of a party opposing the motion that the party cannot, for reasons stated, present by affidavit facts essential to justify the party's opposition, the administrative law judge may refuse the application for summary determination, or may order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or depositions to be taken or discovery to be had or may make such other order as is appropriate, and a ruling to that effect shall be made a matter of record. 


(e) *Order establishing facts.* If on motion under this section a summary determination is not rendered upon the whole case or for all the relief asked and a hearing is necessary, the administrative law judge, by examining the pleadings and the evidence and by interrogating counsel if necessary, shall if practicable ascertain what material facts exist without substantial controversy and what material facts are actually and in good faith controverted. The administrative law judge shall thereupon make an order specifying the facts that appear without substantial controversy and directing such further proceedings in the investigation as are warranted. The facts so specified shall be deemed established. 


(f) *Order of summary determination.* An order of summary determination shall constitute an initial determination of the administrative law judge. 



---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 38322, July 7, 2008; 90 FR 242, Jan. 3, 2025]




