# ยง 1956.130   Cancellation.

Nonjudgment debts, regardless of the amount, may be cancelled with or without application by the debtor.


(a) *With application by debtor.* Debts may be cancelled upon application of the debtor(s), or if the debtor is an individual and unable to act, upon application of the guardian, executor, or administrator of the debtor's estate. The following conditions apply:


(1) The servicing official furnishes a favorable recommendation concerning the cancellation, and


(2) There is no known security for the debt and the debtor has no other assets from which the debt could be collected, and


(3) The debtor is unable to pay any part of the debt and has no reasonable prospect of being able to do so, and


(4) The debt or any extension thereof is due and payable under the terms of the note or other instrument, or because of acceleration by written notice prior to the date of application.


(b) *Without application by debtor.* Debts may be cancelled upon a favorable recommendation of the servicing official in the following instances:


(1) *Debtors discharged in bankruptcy.* If there is no security for the debt, debts discharged in bankruptcy shall be cancelled by the use of Form RD 1956-1 with a copy of the Bankruptcy Court's Discharge Order attached. No attempt will be made to obtain the debtor's signature and County Committee review is unnecessary. If the debtor has executed a new promise to pay prior to discharge and has otherwise accomplished a valid reaffirmation of the debt in accordance with advice from OGC, the debt is not discharged.


(2) *Impossible or impractical to obtain a debtor's signature.* Debts may be cancelled if it is impossible or impractical to obtain a signed application and the requirements of ยง 1956.130(a) (1), (2), and (3) *only* of this subpart are met. Form RD 1956-1 will document:


(i) The sources of information obtained.


(ii) That a current effort was made to obtain the debtor's application and the date of such effort.


(iii) The specific reasons why it was impossible or impracticable to obtain the signature of the debtor and, if the debtor refused to sign, the reason(s) given.


(3) *Deceased debtors (individuals only).* The following conditions must exist:


(i) There is no known security,


(ii) An administrator or executor has not been appointed to settle the debtor's estate but the financial condition of the estate has been investigated and it has been established that there is no reasonable prospect of recovery, *or*

(iii) An administrator or executor has been appointed to settle the estate of the debtor, and


(A) A final settlement has been made and confirmed by the probate court and the Government's claim was recognized properly and the Government has received all funds it was entitled to, or


(B) A final settlement has not been made and confirmed by the probate court, but there are no assets in the estate from which there is any reasonable prospect of recovery, or


(C) Regardless of whether a final settlement has been made, there were assets in the estate from which recovery might have been effected but such assets have been disposed of or lost in a manner which the OGC advises will preclude any reasonable prospect of recovery by the Government.


(4) *Disappeared debtor (individuals only).* The following conditions must exist:


(i) The debtor has disappeared and cannot be found without undue expense. Reasonable efforts either in person or in writing will be made to locate the debtor. These efforts, including the names and dates of contacts, and the information furnished by each person, will be fully documented on Form RD 1956-1,


(ii) There is no known security for the debt and the debtor has no other assets from which the debt could be collected, and


(iii) The debtor is unable to pay any part of the debt and has no reasonable prospect of being able to do so.




