# 228.371   Additional clauses.

(a) Use the clause at 252.228-7000, Reimbursement for War-Hazard Losses, when—


(1) The clause at FAR 52.228-4, Worker's Compensation and War-Hazard Insurance Overseas, is used; and


(2) The head of the contracting activity decides not to allow the contractor to buy insurance for war-hazard losses.




(b) Use the clause at 252.228-7001, Ground and Flight Risk, in solicitations and contracts—


(1) For the acquisition, development, production, modification, maintenance, repair, flight, or overhaul of aircraft owned by or to be delivered to the Government, except those solicitations and contracts—


(i) That are strictly for activities incidental to the normal operations of the aircraft (*e.g.,* refueling operations, minor non-structural actions not requiring towing such as replacing aircraft tires due to wear and tear);


(ii) That are awarded for purchase under FAR part 12 procedures;


(iii) For which a non-DoD customer (including an FMS customer per 225.7305) has decided to allow the use of commercial insurance or other self-insurance;


(iv) For commercial derivative aircraft with an FAA certificate of airworthiness maintained to FAA standards. Performance under the exception in this paragraph (b)(1)(iv) must be at a licensed and certified FAA repair station rated for the type of aircraft and work to be maintained. This exception does not apply to contracts requiring flights with contractor crewmembers;


(v) Under which the aircraft are to be dismantled and removed from the inventory; or


(vi) Under which the aircraft are classified as Group 1 or 2 unmanned aircraft systems per DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6055.07, Mishap Notification, Investigation, Reporting, and Record Keeping, and the purchase price of the air vehicle, including installed Government-furnished equipment, is below the cost threshold for a Class C mishap per DoDI 6055.07; or


(2) Involving aircraft not owned by or to be delivered to the Government, only if the contracting officer decides that it is in the best interest of the Government. See 228.370-3.




(c) The clause at 252.228-7003, Capture and Detention, may be used when contractor employees are subject to capture and detention and may not be covered by the War Hazards Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*).


(d) Use the clause at 252.228-7005, Mishap Reporting and Investigation Involving Aircraft, Missiles, and Space Launch Vehicles, in solicitations and contracts that involve the manufacture, modification, overhaul, or repair of aircraft, missiles, and space launch vehicles.


(e) Use the clause at 252.228-7006, Compliance with Spanish Laws and Insurance, in solicitations and contracts for services or construction to be performed in Spain, unless the contractor is a Spanish concern.


(f) Use the clause at 252.228-7007, Public Aircraft and State Aircraft Operations—Liability, in solicitations and contracts that do not include the clause at 252.228-7001 but involve public aircraft operations or state aircraft operations.





---

[N] [56 FR 36404, July 31, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 42631, Sept. 15, 1992; 62 FR 34125, June 24, 1997; 63 FR 69006, Dec. 15, 1998; 75 FR 32644, June 8, 2010; 84 FR 65312, Nov. 27, 2019. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 17349, Mar. 22, 2023; 88 FR 25512, Apr. 27, 2023]




