# ยง 1903.22   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Williams-Steiger Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. (84 Stat. 1590 *et seq.,* 29 U.S.C. 651 *et seq.*)


(b) The definitions and interpretations contained in section 3 of the Act shall be applicable to such terms when used in this part 1903.


(c) *Working days* means Mondays through Fridays but shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, or Federal holidays. In computing 15 working days, the day of receipt of any notice shall not be included, and the last day of the 15 working days shall be included.


(d) *Compliance Safety and Health Officer* means a person authorized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, to conduct inspections.


(e) *Area Director* means the employee or officer regularly or temporarily in charge of an Area Office of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, or any other person or persons who are authorized to act for such employee or officer. The latter authorizations may include general delegations of the authority of an Area Director under this part to a Compliance Safety and Health Officer or delegations to such an officer for more limited purposes, such as the exercise of the Area Director's duties under ยง 1903.14(a). The term also includes any employee or officer exercising supervisory responsibilities over an Area Director. A supervisory employee or officer is considered to exercise concurrent authority with the Area Director.


(f) *Assistant Regional Director* means the employee or officer regularly or temporarily in charge of a Region of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, or any other person or persons who are specifically designated to act for such employee or officer in his absence. The term also includes any employee or officer in the Occupational Safety and Health Administration exercising supervisory responsibilities over the Assistant Regional Director. Such supervisory employee or officer is considered to exercise concurrent authority with the Assistant Regional Director. No delegation of authority under this paragraph shall adversely affect the procedures for independent informal review of investigative determinations prescribed under ยง 1903.12 of this part.


(g) *Inspection* means any inspection of an employer's factory, plant, establishment, construction site, or other area, workplace or environment where work is performed by an employee of an employer, and includes any inspection conducted pursuant to a complaint filed under ยง 1903.11 (a) and (c), any reinspection, followup inspection, accident investigation or other inspection conducted under section 8(a) of the Act.



---

[N] [36 FR 17850, Sept. 4, 1971, as amended at 38 FR 22624, Aug. 23, 1973. Redesignated at 62 FR 15337, Mar. 31, 1997]














