# § 490.205   Definitions.

Unless otherwise specified, the following definitions apply in this subpart:


*5-year rolling average* means the average of 5 individual, consecutive annual points of data (e.g., the 5-year rolling average of the annual fatality rate).


*Annual Report File* (ARF) means FARS data that are published annually, but prior to Final FARS data.


*Fatality Analysis Reporting System* (FARS) means a nationwide census providing public yearly data regarding fatal injuries suffered in motor vehicle traffic crashes.


*Final FARS* means the FARS data that replace the ARF file and contain additional cases or updates to cases that became available after the ARF was released, and which are no longer subject to future changes.


*KABCO* means the coding convention system for injury classification established by the National Safety Council.


*Number of fatalities* means the total number of persons suffering fatal injuries in a motor vehicle traffic crash during a calendar year, based on the data reported by the FARS database.


*Number of non-motorized fatalities* means the total number of fatalities (as defined in this section) with the FARS person attribute codes: (5) Pedestrian, (6) Bicyclist, (7) Other Cyclist, and (8) Person on Personal Conveyance.


*Number of non-motorized serious injuries* means the total number of serious injuries (as defined in this section) where the injured person is, or is equivalent to, a pedestrian (2.2.36) or a pedalcylcist (2.2.39) as defined in the ANSI D16.1-2007 (incorporated by reference, see § 490.111).


*Number of serious injuries* means the total number of persons suffering at least one serious injury for each separate motor vehicle traffic crash during a calendar year, as reported by the State, where the crash involves a motor vehicle traveling on a public road, and the injury status is “suspected serious injury (A)” as described in MMUCC, (incorporated by reference, see § 490.111). For serious injury classifications that are not MMUCC compliant, the number of serious injuries means serious injuries that are converted to KABCO by use of conversion tables developed by the NHTSA.


*Public road* is as defined in 23 CFR 924.3.


*Rate of fatalities* means the ratio of the total number of fatalities (as defined in this section) to the number of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) (expressed in 100 million VMT) in a calendar year.


*Rate of serious injuries* means the ratio of the total number of serious injuries (as defined in this section) to the number of VMT (expressed in 100 million vehicle miles of travel) in a calendar year.


*Serious injuries* means:


(1) From April 14, 2016 to April 15, 2019, injuries classified as “A” on the KABCO scale through use of the conversion tables developed by NHTSA; and


(2) After April 15, 2019, “suspected serious injury (A)” as defined in the MMUCC.




