# § 28.2801-6   Special rules and cross-references.

(a) *Determination of basis.* For purposes of determining the U.S. recipient's basis in property received as a covered gift or covered bequest, see sections 1015 and 1014 of the Code, respectively. However, the basis adjustment provided in section 1015(d) does not apply to increase the basis in a covered gift to reflect the tax paid under this section.


(b) *Generation-skipping transfer tax.* Transfers made by a nonresident not a citizen of the United States (NRNC transferor) are subject to generation-skipping transfer (GST) tax only to the extent those transfers are subject to Federal estate or gift tax as described in § 26.2652-1(a)(2) of this chapter. In applying this rule, taxable distributions and taxable terminations are subject to the GST tax only to the extent the NRNC transferor's contributions to the trust, as defined in § 26.2652-1(b)(1) of this chapter, were subject to Federal estate or gift tax as described in § 26.2652-1(a)(2) of this chapter. *See* § 26.2663-2 of this chapter. A transfer is subject to Federal estate or gift tax, regardless of whether a Federal estate or gift tax return reporting the transfer is timely filed and regardless of whether chapter 15 of the Code applies because of a covered expatriate's failure to timely file an estate or gift tax return.


(c) *Information returns*—(1) *Gifts and bequests.* Pursuant to section 6039F of the Code and any corresponding regulations and Form 3520, Part IV, each U.S. person who treats an amount received from a foreign person (other than through a foreign trust) as a gift or bequest (whether or not a covered gift or covered bequest) must report such gift or bequest on Part IV of Form 3520 if the value of the total of such gifts and bequests exceeds a certain threshold. For purposes of this provision, a U.S. person is as defined in section 7701(a)(30) of the Code and includes a U.S. resident within the meaning of section 7701(b)(1)(A) of the Code.


(2) *Foreign trust distributions.* Pursuant to section 6048(c) of the Code and the corresponding regulations, and to the extent provided in Notice 97-34 and Part III of Form 3520 and its Instructions, a U.S. person must report each distribution received during the taxable year from a foreign trust on Part III of Form 3520. Under section 6677(a) of the Code, a penalty of the greater of $10,000 or 35 percent of the gross value of the distribution may be imposed on a U.S. person who fails to timely report the distribution. For purposes of this provision, the term *U.S. person* is as defined in section 7701(a)(30) and includes both U.S. citizens and U.S. residents within the meaning of section 7701(b)(1)(A).


(3) *Penalties and use of information.* The filing of Form 706, Form 706-NA, Form 706-QDT, Form 708, Form 709, or Form 709-NA, or any successor form, does not relieve a U.S. citizen or resident who is required to file Form 3520 from any penalties imposed under section 6677(a) for failure to comply with section 6048(c), or from any penalties imposed under section 6039F(c) of the Code for failure to comply with section 6039F(a). Pursuant to section 6039F(c)(1)(A), the Secretary of the Treasury or her delegate may determine the tax consequences of the receipt of a purported foreign gift or bequest.


(d) *Application of penalties*—(1) *Accuracy-related penalties on underpayments.* The section 6662 accuracy-related penalty may be imposed upon any underpayment of tax attributable to—


(i) A substantial valuation understatement under section 6662(g) of a covered gift or covered bequest; or


(ii) A gross valuation misstatement under section 6662(h) of a covered gift or covered bequest.


(2) *Penalty for substantial and gross valuation misstatements attributable to incorrect appraisals.* The section 6695A penalty for substantial and gross valuation misstatements attributable to incorrect appraisals may be imposed upon any person who prepares an appraisal of the value of a covered gift or covered bequest.


(3) *Penalty for failure to file a return and to pay tax.* See section 6651 for the application of a penalty for the failure to file Form 708, or the failure to pay the section 2801 tax.


(e) *Applicability date.* This section applies on and after January 14, 2025.






