# § 96.63   Federal financial assistance.

The DOL grantor agencies shall determine which of the two appeal options set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section the recipient may use to appeal the final determination of the grant officer. All awards within the same Federal financial assistance program shall follow the same appeal procedure.


(a) Appeal to the head of the grantor agency, or his/her designee, for which the audit was conducted.


(1) *Jurisdiction.* (i) *Request for hearing.* Within 21 days of receipt of the grant officer's final determination, the recipient may transmit, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a request for hearing to the head of the grantor agency, or his/her designee, as noted in the final determination. A copy must also be sent to the grant officer who signed the final determination.


(ii) *Statement of issues.* The request for a hearing shall be accompanied by a copy of the final determination, if issued, and shall specifically state those portions of the final determination upon which review is requested. Those portions of the final determination not specified for review shall be considered resolved and not subject to further review.


(iii) *Failure to request review.* When no timely request for a hearing is made, the final determination shall constitute final action by the Secretary of Labor and shall not be subject to further review.


(2) *Conduct of hearings.* The grantor agency shall establish procedures for the conduct of hearings by the head of the grantor agency, or his/her designee.


(3) *Decision of the head of the grantor agency, or his/her designee.* The head of the grantor agency, or his/her designee, should render a written decision no later than 90 days after the closing of the record. This decision constitutes final action of the Secretary.




(b) *Appeal to the DOL Office of Administrative Law Judges*—(1) *Jurisdiction*— (i) *Request for hearing.* Within 21 days of receipt of the grant officer's final determination, the recipient may file a request for hearing with the Chief Administrative Law Judge, United States Department of Labor, with a copy to the grant officer who signed the final determination. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall designate an administrative law judge to hear the appeal.




(ii) *Statement of issues.* The request for a hearing shall be accompanied by a copy of the final determination, if issued, and shall specifically state those portions of the final determination upon which review is requested. Those portions of the final determination not specified for review shall be considered resolved and not subject to further review.


(iii) *Failure to request review.* When no timely request for a hearing is made, the final determination shall constitute final action by the Secretary and shall not be subject to further review.


(2) *Conduct of hearings.* The DOL Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges, set forth at 29 CFR part 18, shall govern the conduct of hearings under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *Decision of the administrative law judge.* The administrative law judge should render a written decision no later than 90 days after the closing of the record.


(4) *Filing exceptions to decision.* The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute final action by the Secretary of Labor, unless, within 21 days after receipt of the decision of the administrative law judge, a party dissatisfied with the decision or any part thereof has filed exceptions with the Administrative Review Board (the Board), specifically identifying the procedure or finding of fact, law, or policy with which exception is taken, in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Any exceptions not specifically urged shall be deemed to have been waived. Thereafter, the decision of the administrative law judge shall become the decision of the Secretary, unless the Board, within 30 days of such filing, has notified the parties that the case has been accepted for review.






(5) *Review by the Administrative Review Board.* In any case accepted for review by the Administrative Review Board, a decision shall be issued within 180 days of such acceptance. If a decision is not so issued, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall become the final decision of the Secretary.





---

[N] [64 FR 14539, Mar. 25, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 37104, July 9, 2007; 85 FR 13034, Mar. 6, 2020; 85 FR 30619, May 20, 2020; 86 FR 1785, Jan. 11, 2021]




