# § 184.1721   Sodium acetate.

(a) Sodium acetate (C_2_H_3_O_2_Na, CAS Reg. No. 127-09-3 or C_2_H_3_O_2_Na·3H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 6131-90-4) is the sodium salt of acetic acid and occurs naturally in plant and animal tissues. Sodium acetate may occur in either the anhydrous or trihydrated form. It is produced synthetically by the neutralization of acetic acid with sodium carbonate or by treating calcium acetate with sodium sulfate and sodium bicarbonate.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), pp. 272, 273 which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent and adjuvant as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; and as a pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice in accordance with 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in a maximum level, as served, of 0.007 percent for breakfast cereals as defined in § 170.3(n)(4) of this chapter; 0.5 percent for fats and oils as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter; 0.6 percent for grain products and pastas as defined in § 170.3(n)(23) of this chapter and snack foods as defined in § 170.3(n)(37) of this chapter; 0.15 percent for hard candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(25) of this chapter; 0.12 percent for jams and jellies as defined in § 170.3(n)(28) of this chapter and meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter; 0.2 percent for soft candy as defined in § 170.3(n)(38) of this chapter; 0.05 percent for soups and soup mixes as defined in § 170.3(n)(40) of this chapter and sweet sauces as defined in § 170.3(n)(43) of this chapter.


(e) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [47 FR 27815, June 25, 1982]




