# § 240.19d-4   Notice by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of disapproval of registration or of disciplinary action.

(a) *Definitions*—(1) *Board* means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. 


(2) *Public accounting firm* shall have the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(11). 


(3) *Registered public accounting firm* shall have the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(12). 


(4) *Associated person* shall mean a person associated with a registered public accounting firm as defined in 15 U.S.C. 7201(a)(9). 


(b)(1) *Notice of disapproval of registration.* If the Board disapproves a completed application for registration by a public accounting firm, the Board shall file a notice of its disapproval with the Commission within 30 days and serve a copy on the public accounting firm. 


(2) *Contents of the notice.* The notice required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall provide the following information: 


(i) The name of the public accounting firm and the public accounting firm's last known address as reflected in the Board's records; 


(ii) The basis for the Board's disapproval, and a copy of the Board's written notice of disapproval; and 


(iii) Such other information as the Board may deem relevant. 


(c)(1) *Notice of disciplinary action.* If the Board imposes any final disciplinary sanction on any registered public accounting firm or any associated person of a registered public accounting firm under 15 U.S.C. 7215(b)(3) or 7215(c), the Board shall file a notice of the disciplinary sanction with the Commission within 30 days and serve a copy on the person sanctioned. 


(2) *Contents of the notice.* The notice required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall provide the following information: 


(i) The name of the registered public accounting firm or the associated person, together with the firm's or the person's last known address as reflected in the Board's records; 


(ii) A description of the acts or practices, or omissions to act, upon which the sanction is based; 


(iii) A statement of the sanction imposed, the reasons therefor, or a copy of the Board's statement justifying the sanction, and the effective date of such sanction; and 


(iv) Such other information as the Board may deem relevant.



---

[N] [69 FR 13182, Mar. 19, 2004]




