# § 932.161   Reports.

(a) *Reports of olives received.* Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, for each week (Sunday through Saturday, or such other 7-day period for which the handler has submitted a request and received approval from the committee) and not later than the fourth day after the close of such week, a report showing by size designation and culls the respective quantities of each variety of olives received. In addition thereto, he shall also report the seasonal totals to date of the report.


(b) *Sales reports.* (1) Each handler shall submit to the committee, on COC Form 21 as provided by the committee, for each month and not later than the 15th day following the end of that month, a report showing the handler's total sales of packaged olives to commercial outlets in the United States, to governmental agencies, and to foreign countries. Such sales shall be reported in the following categories:


(i) Whole and whole pitted styles of canned ripe olives in consumer size containers;


(ii) Whole and whole pitted styles of canned ripe olives in institutional size containers;


(iii) Chopped style of canned ripe olives in all types of containers; and


(iv) Halved, segmented (wedged), and sliced styles of canned ripe olives in all types of containers.


(2) Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, for each month and not more than 15 days after the end of such month, a report showing the total quantity of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types sold during the month. Such reports shall include the following information, as applicable:


(i) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 29a in terms of the quantity of each size of olives as designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total monthly sales of packaged olives of the green ripe type.


(ii) Limited use styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 29b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans.


(c) *Report of handler's utilization of limited size olives.* Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, upon completion of the handler's canning season, but not later than August 1st of each crop year, a report showing the quantities of limited canning size olives used in (1) halved; (2) segmented (wedged); (3) sliced; (4) chopped; (5) acidified; (6) Spanish olives; (7) Sicilian style olives; (8) Greek style olives; (9) olive oil; (10) olives dumped; and (11) any other use (specify such use).


(d) *Packaged olive inventory reports.* Each handler shall submit an inventory report to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, not later than the 15th day of each month showing the total quantity of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types held in storage at all locations on the last day of the preceding month. Such reports shall contain the following information, as applicable:


(1) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged ripe or green ripe type olives, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 27a in terms of the packaged quantity of each size designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total quantity of any packaged olives of the green ripe type held in storage at all locations.


(2) Halved, sliced, segmented (wedged), and chopped styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 27b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans.


(e) *Processed olive bulk inventory reports.* Each handler shall submit an inventory report to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, not later than the 15th day of each month showing the total quantity of processed olives of the ripe and green ripe types held in bulk storage at all locations on the last day of the preceding month. Such reports shall contain the following information, as applicable:


(1) The total tonnage of processed olives of the ripe and green ripe types, held in storage by the handler, which are of any size that may be used in the production of packaged olives of the whole or the pitted styles shall be reported on COC Form 27c in terms of the total quantity of each size designated on the form.


(2) The total tonnage of processed olives of the ripe and green ripe types, held in storage by the handler, which are of sizes that may be used in the production of packaged olives of the halved, sliced, segmented (wedged), or chopped style shall be reported on COC Form 27b.


(f) *Packout reports.* Each handler shall submit to the committee, on a form provided by the committee, for each month and not more than 15 days after the end of such month, a report showing the total production of packaged olives of the ripe and green ripe types. Such reports shall include the following information, as applicable:


(1) With respect to the whole, pitted, and broken pitted styles of packaged olives of the ripe or the green ripe types, each style shall be reported separately on COC Form 28a in terms of the total quantity of each size of olives as designated on the form. Such quantity, or quantities, shall be reported in terms of the total amount packaged in each of the container sizes listed on said form except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans. Each handler shall report separately the total monthly production of packaged olives of the green ripe type.


(2) Halved, sliced, segmented (wedged), and chopped styles of packaged olives of the ripe or green ripe type shall be reported in terms of the quantity of each style packaged in each of the container sizes listed on COC Form 28b except that the committee may require such reporting in terms of the equivalent number of cases of 24 No. 300 (300 × 407) size cans.



---

[N] [33 FR 15632, Oct. 23, 1968, as amended at 36 FR 24795, Dec. 23, 1971; 47 FR 13118, Mar. 29, 1982; 49 FR 34440, 34441, Aug. 31, 1984; 49 FR 44448, Nov. 7, 1984]






