# ยง 1007.2   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


*Board* means the Surface Transportation Board. 


*Chairman* means the Presidentially appointed Board Member who is the administrative head of the Surface Transportation Board. 


*Privacy Officer* refers to the individual designated to process requests and handle various other matters relating to the Board's implementation of the Privacy Act of 1974. 


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence. 


*Maintain* means the maintenance, collection, use, or dissemination (of records). 


*Record* means any item, collection or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph. 


*Statistical Record* means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by section 8 of Title 13 of the United States Code. 


*System of records* means a group of any records under the control of the Board retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual. 


*Routine use* means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose of which the record was compiled. 


*Agency* means any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government-controlled corporation or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the Government or any independent regulatory agency. 




