# § 30.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.30, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 30, Gauging Manual.


*Bonded premises.* The bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant as described in part 19 of this chapter. This term includes premises described in the preceding sentence even if the distilled spirits plant proprietor has not provided a bond for the premises as authorized under the exemption set forth in § 19.151(d) of this chapter.


*Bulk conveyance.* Any tank car, tank truck, tank ship, tank barge, or other similar container approved by the appropriate TTB officer, authorized for the conveyance of spirits (including denatured spirits) in bulk.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Container.* Any receptacle, vessel, or form of package, bottle, tank, or pipeline used, or capable of use, for holding, storing, transferring or conveying distilled spirits.


*Denatured spirits or denatured alcohol.* Spirits to which denaturants have been added pursuant to formulas prescribed in 27 CFR part 21.


*Gallon or wine gallon.* The liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches.


*I.R.C.* The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.


*Package.* Any cask, barrel, drum, or similar container approved under the provisions of this chapter.


*Proof.* The ethyl alcohol content of a liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, stated as twice the percent of ethyl alcohol by volume.


*Proof gallon.* A United States gallon of proof spirits, or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Proof spirits.* That liquid which contains one-half its volume of ethyl alcohol of a specific gravity of seven thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine ten-thousandths (0.7939) in vacuum at 60 degrees Fahrenheit referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity.


*Spirits, spirituous liquor, or distilled spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced, but not denatured spirits unless specifically stated. For the sole purpose of gauging wine and alcoholic flavoring materials on the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant, such alcoholic ingredients shall have the same meaning described herein to spirits, spirituous liquor, or distilled spirits.


*This chapter.* Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter I (27 CFR Chapter I).


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8535, Mar. 1, 1985, as amended by T.D. ATF-438, 66 FR 5481, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16947, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1137, Jan. 4, 2017]




