# § 74.3   Relationship to the Acid Rain program requirements.

(a) *General.* (1) For purposes of applying parts 72, 73, 75, 77 and 78, each opt-in source shall be treated as an affected unit.


(2) Subpart A, B, G, and H of part 72 of this chapter, including §§ 72.2 (definitions), 72.3 (measurements, abbreviations, and acronyms), 72.4 (Federal authority), 72.5 (State authority), 72.6 (applicability), 72.7 (New units exemption), 72.8 (Retired units exemption), 72.9 (Standard Requirements), 72.10 (availability of information), and 72.11 (computation of time), shall apply to this part.


(b) *Permits.* The permitting authority shall act in accordance with this part and parts 70, 71, and 72 of this chapter in issuing or denying an opt-in permit and incorporating it into a combustion or process source's operating permit. To the extent that any requirements of this part, part 72, and part 78 of this chapter are inconsistent with the requirements of parts 70 and 71 of this chapter, the requirements of this part, part 72, and part 78 of this chapter shall take precedence and shall govern the issuance, denials, revision, reopening, renewal, and appeal of the opt-in permit.


(c) *Appeals.* The procedures for appeals of decisions of the Administrator under this part are contained in part 78 of this chapter.


(d) *Allowances.* A combustion or process source that becomes an affected unit under this part shall be subject to all the requirements of subparts C and D of part 73 of this chapter, consistent with subpart E of this part.


(e) *Excess emissions.* A combustion or process source that becomes an affected unit under this part shall be subject to the requirements of part 77 of this chapter applicable to excess emissions of sulfur dioxide and shall not be subject to the requirements of part 77 of this chapter applicable to excess emissions of nitrogen oxides.


(f) *Monitoring.* A combustion or process source that becomes an affected unit under this part shall be subject to all the requirements of part 75, consistent with subparts F and G of this part.



---

[N] [60 FR 17115, Apr. 4, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 18841, Apr. 16, 1998]




