# § 91.2   Applicability.

(a) The following formula grant programs are covered by the consolidated plan: 


(1) The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) programs (see 24 CFR part 570, subparts D and I); 


(2) The Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) program (see 24 CFR part 576);


(3) The HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program (see 24 CFR part 92);


(4) The Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see 24 CFR part 574); and


(5) The Housing Trust Fund (HTF) program (see 24 CFR part 93).

(b) The following programs require either that the jurisdiction receiving funds directly from HUD have a consolidated plan that is approved by HUD or that the application for HUD funds contain a certification that the application is consistent with a HUD-approved consolidated plan: 


(1) The HOPE I Public Housing Homeownership (HOPE I) program (see 24 CFR Subtitle A, Appendix A); 


(2) The HOPE II Homeownership of Multifamily Units (HOPE II) program (see 24 CFR Subtitle A, Appendix B); 


(3) The HOPE III Homeownership of Single Family Homes (HOPE III) program (see 24 CFR part 572); 


(4) The Low-Income Housing Preservation (prepayment avoidance incentives) program, when administered by a State agency (see 24 CFR 248.177); 


(5) The Supportive Housing for the Elderly (Section 202) program (see 24 CFR part 889); 


(6) The Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program (see 24 CFR part 890); 


(7) The Supportive Housing program (see 24 CFR part 583); 


(8) The Single Room Occupancy Housing (SRO) program (see 24 CFR part 882, subpart H); 


(9) The Shelter Plus Care program (see 24 CFR part 582); 


(10) The Community Development Block Grant program—Small Cities (see 24 CFR part 570, subpart F); 


(11) HOME program reallocations; 


(12) Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, (42 U.S.C. 1437 *et seq.*)); 


(13) Hope for Youth: Youthbuild (see 24 CFR part 585); 


(14) The John Heinz Neighborhood Development program (see 24 CFR part 594); 


(15) The “Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program (see 42 U.S.C. 4852(o));”


(16) Grants for Regulatory Barrier Removal Strategies and Implementation (section 1204, Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 12705c)); and 


(17) Competitive grants under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see 24 CFR part 574). 


(c) Other programs do not require consistency with an approved consolidated plan. However, HUD funding allocations for the Section 8 Voucher Programs are to be made in a way that enables participating jurisdictions to carry out their consolidated plans. 


(d) The Public Housing Agency Plan submission (PHA Plan) (see 24 CFR part 903) includes a certification by the appropriate state or local official that the PHA Plan is consistent with the applicable consolidated plan for the jurisdiction in which the public housing agency is located and must describe the manner in which the applicable contents of the PHA Plan are consistent with the consolidated plan.



---

[N] [60 FR 1896, Jan. 5, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 16379, Mar. 30, 1995; 64 FR 50223, Sept. 15, 1999; 71 FR 6961, Feb. 9, 2006; 76 FR 75966, Dec. 5, 2011; 80 FR 5219, Jan. 30, 2015; 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]




