# § 312.3   General definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


*Act* or *Stevenson-Wydler* means the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980, as amended (15 U.S.C. 3701 *et seq.*).


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development within the Department.


*Department of Commerce, Department,* or *DOC* means the U.S. Department of Commerce.


*Economic Development Organization* means an organization whose primary purpose is to support the economic development of a community or region.


*EDA* means the Economic Development Administration within the Department.


*Eligible applicant* means an entity qualified to be an eligible recipient or its authorized representative.


*Eligible recipient* means a recipient that meets the requirements of § 312.6.


*Equipment* is defined at 2 CFR 200.33.


*Federal agency* means any executive agency as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, and the military departments as defined in 5 U.S.C. 102, as well as any agency of the legislative branch of the Federal Government.


*Federal funding opportunity* or *FFO* means an announcement that EDA publishes during the fiscal year on a Federal Government grants platform or on EDA's Internet Web site at *http://www.eda.gov, https://www.eda.gov/oie/,* or any successor Web site, that provides the funding amounts, application and programmatic requirements, funding priorities, special circumstances, and other information concerning a specific competitive solicitation under EDA's Regional Innovation Program.


*Federal interest* is defined at 2 CFR 200.41, in accordance with 2 CFR 200.316.


*Federal laboratory* means any laboratory, any federally funded research and development center, or any center established under section 7 or section 9 of the Act that is owned, leased, or otherwise used by a Federal agency and funded by the Federal Government, whether operated by the government or by a contractor.


*Grant* means the financial assistance award of EDA funds to an eligible recipient, under which the Eligible Recipient bears responsibility for meeting a purpose or carrying out an activity authorized under Stevenson-Wydler. *See* 31 U.S.C. 6304.


*In-kind contribution(s)* means non-cash contributions, which may include contributions of space, Equipment, services, and assumptions of debt that are fairly evaluated by EDA and that satisfy applicable Federal Uniform Administrative Requirements and Cost Principles as set out in 2 CFR part 200.


*Indian tribe* means an entity on the list of recognized tribes published pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, as amended (Pub. L. 103-454) (25 U.S.C. 479a *et seq.*), and any Alaska Native Village or Regional Corporation (as defined in or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*)). This term includes the governing body of an Indian tribe, nonprofit Indian corporation (restricted to Indians), Indian authority, or other nonprofit Indian tribal organization or entity; provided that the Indian tribal organization or entity is wholly owned by, and established for the benefit of, the Indian tribe or Alaska Native village.


*Investment* or *Investment assistance* means a grant entered into by EDA and a recipient.


*Investment rate* means, as set forth in § 312.8, the amount of the EDA investment in a particular project expressed as a percentage of the total project cost.


*Matching share* or *Local share* means the non-EDA funds and any in-kind contribution(s) that are approved by EDA and provided by a recipient or third party as a condition of an investment. The matching share may include funds from another Federal agency only if authorized by a statute that allows such use, which may be determined by EDA's reasonable interpretation of such authority.


*Nonprofit organization* is defined at 2 CFR 200.70.


*Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship* or *OIE* means the office established by 15 U.S.C. 3720.


*Project* means the proposed or authorized activity (or activities), the purpose of which fulfills EDA's mission and program requirements as set forth in the Act and this part, and which may be funded in whole or in part by EDA investment assistance.


*Public-private partnership* means a relationship formalized by contractual agreement between a public agency and a private-sector entity that reasonably defines the terms of collaboration in the delivery and financing of a public project.


*Real property* means any land, whether raw or improved, and includes structures, fixtures, appurtenances, and other permanent improvements, excluding moveable machinery and equipment.


*Recipient* means an entity receiving EDA investment assistance, including any successor to the entity approved by EDA in writing. If investment assistance is awarded to more than one recipient under a single award, the recipients are referred to as “co-recipients” and, unless otherwise provided in the terms and conditions of the investment assistance, each co-recipient is jointly and severally liable for fulfilling the terms of the investment assistance.


*Region* or *Regional* means an economic unit of human, natural, technological, capital, or other resources, defined geographically. Geographic areas comprising a region need not be contiguous or defined by political boundaries, but should constitute a cohesive area capable of undertaking self-sustained economic development.


*Regional innovation clusters* or *RICs* means a geographically bounded network of similar, synergistic, or complementary entities that are engaged in or with a particular industry sector and its related sectors; have active channels for business transactions and communication; share specialized infrastructure, labor markets, and services; and leverage the region's unique competitive strengths to stimulate innovation and create jobs.


*Regional Innovation Program* means the program enacted by Stevenson-Wydler at 15 U.S.C. 3722.


*Regional Innovation Research and Information Program* or *RIRI Program* means the program authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3722(c).


*Regional Innovation Strategies Program* or *RIS Program* means the cluster grant program authorized by 15 U.S.C. 3722(b).


*Science or research park* means a property-based venture that has: Master-planned property and buildings designed primarily for private-public research and development activities, high technology and science-based companies, and research and development support services; a contractual or operational relationship with one or more science- or research-related institutions of higher education or governmental or nonprofit research laboratories; a primary mission to promote research and development through industry partnerships, assisting in the growth of new ventures and promoting innovation-driven economic development; a role in facilitating the transfer of technology and business skills between researchers and industry teams; and a role in promoting technology-led economic development for the community or region in which the park is located.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any other territory or possession of the United States.


*United States* means all of the States.




