# § 1915.152   General requirements.

(a) *Provision and use of equipment.* The employer shall provide and shall ensure that each affected employee uses the appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) for the eyes, face, head, extremities, torso, and respiratory system, including protective clothing, protective shields, protective barriers, personal fall protection equipment, and life saving equipment, meeting the applicable provisions of this subpart, wherever employees are exposed to work activity hazards that require the use of PPE. 


(b) *Hazard assessment and equipment.* The employer shall assess its work activity to determine whether there are hazards present, or likely to be present, which necessitate the employee's use of PPE. If such hazards are present, or likely to be present, the employer shall: 


(1) Select the type of PPE that will protect the affected employee from the hazards identified in the occupational hazard assessment; 


(2) Communicate selection decisions to affected employees; 


(3) Select PPE that properly fits each affected employee; and 


(4) Verify that the required occupational hazard assessment has been performed through a document that contains the following information: occupation, the date(s) of the hazard assessment, and the name of the person performing the hazard assessment. 


(c) *Defective and damaged equipment.* Defective or damaged PPE shall not be used. 


(d) *Reissued equipment.* The employer shall ensure that all unsanitary PPE, including that which has been used by employees, be cleaned and disinfected before it is reissued. 


(e) *Training.* (1) The employer shall provide training to each employee who is required, by this section, to use PPE (exception: training in the use of personal fall arrest systems and positioning device systems training is covered in §§ 1915.159 and 1915.160). Each employee shall be trained to understand at least the following: 


(i) When PPE is necessary; 


(ii) What PPE is necessary; 


(iii) How to properly don, doff, adjust, and wear PPE; 


(iv) The limitations of the PPE; and, 


(v) The proper care, maintenance, useful life and disposal of the PPE. 


(2) The employer shall ensure that each affected employee demonstrates the ability to use PPE properly before being allowed to perform work requiring the use of PPE.


(3) The employer shall retrain any employee who does not understand or display the skills required by paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Circumstances where retraining is required include, but are not limited to, situations where: 


(i) Changes in occupation or work render previous training obsolete; or 


(ii) Changes in the types of PPE to be used render previous training obsolete; or 


(iii) Inadequacies in an affected employee's knowledge or use of assigned PPE indicate that the employee has not retained the requisite understanding or skill. 


(f) Payment for protective equipment. (1) Except as provided by paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(6) of this section, the protective equipment, including personal protective equipment (PPE), used to comply with this part, shall be provided by the employer at no cost to employees.


(2) The employer is not required to pay for non-specialty safety-toe protective footwear (including steel-toe shoes or steel-toe boots) and non-specialty prescription safety eyewear, provided that the employer permits such items to be worn off the job-site.


(3) When the employer provides metatarsal guards and allows the employee, at his or her request, to use shoes or boots with built-in metatarsal protection, the employer is not required to reimburse the employee for the shoes or boots.


(4) The employer is not required to pay for:


(i) Everyday clothing, such as long-sleeve shirts, long pants, street shoes, and normal work boots; or


(ii) Ordinary clothing, skin creams, or other items, used solely for protection from weather, such as winter coats, jackets, gloves, parkas, rubber boots, hats, raincoats, ordinary sunglasses, and sunscreen.


(5) The employer must pay for replacement PPE, except when the employee has lost or intentionally damaged the PPE.


(6) Where an employee provides appropriate protective equipment he or she owns, the employer may allow the employee to use it and is not required to reimburse the employee for that equipment. The employer shall not require an employee to provide or pay for his or her own PPE, unless the PPE is excepted by paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section.


(7) This paragraph (f) shall become effective on February 13, 2008. Employers must implement the PPE payment requirements no later than May 15, 2008.



---

[N] [61 FR 26352, May 24, 1996; 61 FR 29957, June 13, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 44543, July 3, 2002; 72 FR 64428, Nov. 15, 2007; 76 FR 33610, June 8, 2011]




