# ยง 3560.458   Special property circumstances.

(a) *Abandonment.* When the Agency determines that a borrower has abandoned security for a loan under this part, the Agency will take the steps necessary to protect the Federal Government's interest in the security. Costs associated with managing abandoned property are the responsibility of the borrower and will be charged to the borrower's account until liquidation is completed.


(b) *Other security.* The Agency will service security such as collateral assignments, assignments of rents, Housing Assistance Payments Contracts, and notices of lienholder interest according to acceptable practices in the respective states.


(c) *Taking of additional security to protect Agency interests.* The Agency may require borrowers to provide additional security in the form of real estate, cash reserves, letters of credit, or other security when needed to improve the chances that the Agency will not suffer a loss, and when: 


(1) The account is in default; or


(2) The property has not been properly managed or maintained.


(d) *Due diligence.* When the Agency has completed an environmental site assessment in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, and decides not to acquire security property through liquidation action or chooses to abandon its security interest in real property, whether due in whole or in part, to releases of or the presence of contamination from hazardous substances, hazardous wastes, or petroleum products, the Agency will provide the appropriate environmental authorities with a copy of its environmental site assessment.



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 11049, Mar. 2, 2016]




