# ยง 648.102   Summer flounder specifications.

(a) *Commercial quota, recreational landing limits, research set-asides, and other specification measures.* The Monitoring Committee shall recommend to the MAFMC, through the specifications process, for use in conjunction with each ACL and ACT, a sector-specific research set-aside, estimates of sector-related discards, a recreational harvest limit, and a commercial quota, along with other measures, as needed to prevent overages of the applicable specified limits or targets for each sector, as prescribed in the FMP. The measures to be considered by the Monitoring Committee are:


(1) Research quota set from a range of 0 to 3 percent of the allowable landings level for both the commercial and recreational sectors.


(2) Commercial minimum fish size.


(3) Minimum mesh size.


(4) Restrictions on gear other than otter trawls.


(5) Adjustments to the exempted area boundary and season specified in ยง 648.108(b)(1) by 30-minute intervals of latitude and longitude and 2-week intervals, respectively, based on data reviewed by Summer Flounder Monitoring Committee during the specification process, to prevent discarding of sublegal sized summer flounder in excess of 10 percent, by weight.


(6) Recreational possession limit set from a range of 0 to 15 summer flounder.


(7) Recreational minimum and/or maximum fish size.


(8) Recreational season.


(9) Recreational state conservation equivalent and precautionary default measures utilizing possession limits, minimum fish sizes, and/or seasons set after reductions for research quota.


(10) Changes, as appropriate, to the SBRM, including the CV-based performance standard, the means by which discard data are collected/obtained, fishery stratification, the process for prioritizing observer sea-day allocations, reports, and/or industry-funded observers or observer set aside programs.


(11) Modification of existing accountability measures and ACT control rules utilized by the Monitoring Committee.


(b) *Specification fishing measures.* The MAFMC shall review the recommendations of the Monitoring Committee and, based on the recommendations and any public comment, recommend to the Regional Administrator measures that are projected to constrain the sectors to the applicable limit or target as prescribed in the FMP. The MAFMC's recommendations must include supporting documentation, as appropriate, concerning the environmental and economic impacts of the recommendations. The Regional Administrator shall review these recommendations and any recommendations of the ASMFC.


(c) After such review, the Regional Administrator will publish a proposed rule in the _Federal Register_ to implement a coastwide commercial quota, a recreational harvest limit, research set-aside, adjustments to ACL or ACT resulting from AMs, and additional management measures for the commercial fishery. After considering public comment, NMFS will publish a final rule in the _Federal Register._

(1) *Distribution of annual commercial quota.* (i) For years when the annual commercial quota is at or below 9,550,000 lb (4,332 mt), the quota will be distributed to the states, based upon the following percentages (state followed by percent share in parenthesis): Maine (0.04756); New Hampshire (0.00046); Massachusetts (6.82046); Rhode Island (15.68298); Connecticut (2.25708); New York (7.64699); New Jersey (16.72499); Delaware (0.01779); Maryland (2.03910); Virginia (21.31676); and North Carolina (27.44584).


(ii) For years when the annual commercial quota is greater than 9,550,000 lb (4,332 mt), the quota up to this amount will be distributed as outlined in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, and the additional quota above 9,550,000 lb (4,332 mt) will be distributed based upon the following percentages (state followed by percent share in parenthesis): Maine (0.333); New Hampshire (0.333); Massachusetts (12.375); Rhode Island (12.375); Connecticut (12.375); New York (12.375); New Jersey (12.375); Delaware (0.333); Maryland (12.375); Virginia (12.375); and North Carolina (12.375).


(2) *Quota transfers and combinations.* Any state implementing a state commercial quota for summer flounder may request approval from the Regional Administrator to transfer part or its entire annual quota to one or more states. Two or more states implementing a state commercial quota for summer flounder may request approval from the Regional Administrator to combine their quotas, or part of their quotas, into an overall regional quota. Requests for transfer or combination of commercial quotas for summer flounder must be made by individual or joint letter(s) signed by the principal state official with marine fishery management responsibility and expertise, or his/her previously named designee, for each state involved. The letter(s) must certify that all pertinent state requirements have been met and identify the states involved and the amount of quota to be transferred or combined.


(i) Within 10 working days following the receipt of the letter(s) from the states involved, the Regional Administrator shall notify the appropriate state officials of the disposition of the request. In evaluating requests to transfer a quota or combine quotas, the Regional Administrator shall consider whether:


(A) The transfer or combination would preclude the overall annual quota from being fully harvested;


(B) The transfer addresses an unforeseen variation or contingency in the fishery; and


(C) The transfer is consistent with the objectives of the FMP and the Magnuson-Stevens Act.


(ii) The transfer of quota or the combination of quotas will be valid only for the calendar year for which the request was made;


(iii) A state may not submit a request to transfer quota or combine quotas if a request to which it is party is pending before the Regional Administrator. A state may submit a new request when it receives notice that the Regional Administrator has disapproved the previous request or when notice of the approval of the transfer or combination has been filed at the Office of the Federal Register.


(iv) If there is a quota overage among states involved in the combination of quotas at the end of the fishing year, the overage will be deducted from the following year's quota for each of the states involved in the combined quota. The deduction will be proportional, based on each state's relative share of the combined quota for the previous year. A transfer of quota or combination of quotas does not alter any state's percentage share of the overall quota specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.


(d) *Recreational specification measures.* The MAFMC shall review the recommendations of the Monitoring Committee and, based on the recommendations and any public comment, recommend to the Regional Administrator measures that are projected to prevent overages of the applicable recreational target, as prescribed in the FMP, for an upcoming fishing year or years. The MAFMC's recommendations must include supporting documentation, as appropriate, concerning the environmental and economic impacts of the recommendations. The MAFMC and the ASMFC will recommend that the Regional Administrator implement either:


(1) *Coastwide measures.* Annual, or multi-year, coastwide management measures projected to achieve the applicable recreational target as prescribed in the FMP, or


(2) *Conservation equivalent measures.* Individual states, or regions formed voluntarily by adjacent states (*i.e.,* multi-State conservation equivalency regions), may implement different combinations of minimum and/or maximum fish sizes, possession limits, and closed seasons that achieve equivalent conservation as the coastwide measures established under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Each State or multi-State conservation equivalency region may implement measures by mode or area only if the proportional standard error of recreational landing estimates by mode or area for that State is less than 30 percent.


(i) After review of the recommendations, the Regional Administrator will publish a proposed rule in the _Federal Register_ as soon as possible to implement the overall recreational target for the fishing year(s), and the ASMFC's recommendation concerning conservation equivalency, the precautionary default measures, and coastwide measures.


(ii) The ASMFC will review conservation equivalency proposals and determine whether or not they achieve the necessary adjustment to recreational landings. The ASMFC will provide the Regional Administrator with the individual State and/or multi-State region conservation measures for the approved State and/or multi-State region proposals and, in the case of disapproved State and/or multi-State region proposals, the precautionary default measures that should be applied to a State or region. At the request of the ASMFC, precautionary default measures would apply to federally permitted party/charter vessels and other recreational fishing vessels harvesting summer flounder in or from the EEZ when landing in a State that implements measures not approved by the ASMFC.


(iii) After considering public comment, the Regional Administrator will publish a final rule in the _Federal Register_ to implement either the State or regional conservation equivalency measures or coastwide measures to ensure that the applicable specified target is not exceeded.


(iv) The ASMFC may allow states or regions assigned the precautionary default measures to resubmit revised management measures. The ASMFC will detail the procedures by which the State or region can develop alternate measures. The ASMFC will notify the Regional Administrator of any resubmitted State or regional proposals approved subsequent to publication of the final rule and the Regional Administrator will publish a document in the _Federal Register_ to notify the public.


(e) *Research quota.* See ยง 648.22(g).



---

[N] [76 FR 60626, Sept. 29, 2011, as amended at 76 FR 81849, Dec. 29, 2011; 80 FR 37196, June 30, 2015; 84 FR 65702, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 36803, June 18, 2020; 85 FR 80666, Dec. 14, 2020; 88 FR 14507, Mar. 9, 2023]




