# ยง 1282.41   Housing plans.

(a) *General.* If the Director determines that an Enterprise did not comply with, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will not comply with, the duty to serve a particular underserved market in a given year, the Director may require the Enterprise to submit a housing plan for approval by the Director.


(b) *Nature of housing plan.* If the Director requires a housing plan, the housing plan must:


(1) Be feasible;


(2) Be sufficiently specific to enable the Director to monitor compliance periodically;


(3) Describe the specific actions that the Enterprise will take:


(i) To comply with the duty to serve a particular underserved market for the next calendar year; or


(ii) To make such improvements and changes in its operations as are reasonable in the remainder of the year, if the Director determines that there is a substantial probability that the Enterprise will fail to comply with the duty to serve a particular underserved market in such year; and


(4) Address any additional matters relevant to the housing plan as required, in writing, by the Director.


(c) *Deadline for submission.* The Enterprise must submit the housing plan to the Director within 45 days after issuance of a notice requiring the Enterprise to submit a housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline for submission of a housing plan, in writing and for a time certain, to the extent the Director determines an extension is necessary.


(d) *Review of housing plans.* The Director will review and approve or disapprove housing plans in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 4566(c)(4) and (c)(5).


(e) *Resubmission.* If the Director disapproves an initial housing plan submitted by an Enterprise, the Enterprise must submit an amended housing plan acceptable to the Director not later than 15 days after the Director's disapproval of the initial housing plan. The Director may extend the deadline if the Director determines that an extension is in the public interest. If the amended housing plan is not acceptable to the Director, the Director may afford the Enterprise 15 days to submit a new housing plan.




