# § 866.3373   Nucleic acid-based in vitro diagnostic devices for the detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTB-complex) and the genetic mutations associated with MTB-complex antibiotic resistance in respiratory specimens.

(a) *Identification.* Nucleic acid-based in vitro diagnostic devices for the detection of *Mycobacterium tuberculosis* complex (MTB-complex) and the genetic mutations associated with MTB-complex antibiotic resistance in respiratory specimens are qualitative nucleic acid-based devices that detect the presence of MTB-complex-associated nucleic acid sequences in respiratory samples. These devices are intended to aid in the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis and the selection of an initial treatment regimen when used in conjunction with clinical findings and other laboratory results. These devices do not provide confirmation of antibiotic susceptibility since other mechanisms of resistance may exist that may be associated with a lack of clinical response to treatment other than those detected by the device.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) The FDA document entitled “Class II Special Controls Guideline: Nucleic Acid-Based In Vitro Diagnostic Devices for the Detection of *Mycobacterium tuberculosis* Complex and Genetic Mutations Associated with Antibiotic Resistance in Respiratory Specimens,” which addresses the mitigation of risks specific to the detection of MTB-complex. For availability of the document, see § 866.1(e).


(2) The following items, which address the mitigation of risks specific to the detection of the genetic mutations associated with antibiotic resistance of MTB-complex:


(i) The device must include an external positive assay control as appropriate. Acceptable positive assay controls include MTB-complex isolates containing one or more antibiotic-resistance associated target sequences detected by the device.


(ii) The device must include internal controls as appropriate. An acceptable internal control may include human nucleic acid co-extracted with MTB-complex containing nucleic acid sequences associated with antibiotic resistance and primers amplifying human housekeeping genes (e.g., RNaseP, β-actin).


(iii) The device's intended use must include a description of the scope of antibiotic resistance targeted by the assay, i.e., the specific drugs and/or drug classes.


(iv) The specific performance characteristics section of the device's labeling must include information regarding the specificity of the assay oligonucleotides for detecting mutations associated with antibiotic resistance of MTB-complex, and any information indicating the potential for non-specific binding (e.g., BLAST search).


(v) In demonstrating device performance you must perform:


(A) Pre-analytical studies that evaluate:


(*1*) *Frozen samples.* If there is use of any frozen samples in the device performance studies, or if there is a device claim for the use of frozen samples for testing, the effect of freezing samples prior to testing and the effect of multiple freeze/thaw cycles on both antibiotic susceptible and antibiotic resistant strains of MTB-complex.


(*2*) *Nucleic acid extraction methods.* Extraction methods must parallel those used in devices for the detection of MTB-complex nucleic acid and confirm that the detection of the genetic mutations associated with antibiotic resistance is not affected.


(B) Analytical studies that analyze:


(*1*) *Limit of Detection.* Limit of Detection must be determined in the most challenging matrix (e.g., sputum) claimed for use with the device. The Limit of Detection must be determined using both antibiotic susceptible and antibiotic resistant strains of MTB-complex. The antibiotic resistant strains must be those with well characterized genetic mutations associated with antibiotic resistance.


(*2*) *Analytical Reactivity (Inclusivity).* Testing must be conducted to evaluate the ability of the device to detect genetic mutations associated with antibiotic resistance in a diversity of MTB-complex strains. Isolates used in testing must be well characterized. Isolate strain characterization must be determined using standardized reference methods recognized by a reputable scientific body and appropriate to the strain lineage.


(*3*) *Within-Laboratory (Repeatability) Precision Testing.* Within-laboratory precision studies, if appropriate, must include at least one antibiotic resistant and one antibiotic susceptible strain of MTB-complex.


(*4) Between Laboratory Reproducibility Testing.* The protocol for the reproducibility study may vary slightly depending on the assay format; however, the panel must include at least one antibiotic resistant and one antibiotic susceptible strain of MTB-complex.


(C) Clinical Studies. Clinical performance of the device must be established by conducting prospective clinical studies that include subjects with culture confirmed active tuberculosis. Studies must attempt to enroll subjects at risk for antibiotic-resistant MTB-complex; however, it may be necessary to include supplemental antibiotic resistant retrospective and contrived samples. Clinical studies must compare device results to both phenotypic drug susceptibility testing and genotypic reference methods. The genotypic reference method must be a polymerase chain reaction based method that uses primers different from those in the experimental device and confirmed by bidirectional sequencing.



---

[N] [79 FR 63036, Oct. 22, 2014]




