# ยง 525.4   Definitions.

(a) *Statutory terms.* (1) The terms *fuel,**manufacture,**manufacturer,* and *model year,* are used as defined in section 501 of the Act.


(2) The terms *average fuel economy, fuel economy,* and *model type* are used as defined in 40 CFR 600.002-77.


(3) The term *automobile* means a vehicle determined by the Administrator under 49 CFR part 523 to be an automobile.


(4) The term *passenger automobile* means an automobile determined by the Administrator under 49 CFR part 523 to be a passenger automobile.


(5) The term *customs territory of the United States* is used as defined in 19 U.S.C. 1202.


(b) *Other terms.* (1) The term *base level* and *vehicle configuration* are used as defined in 40 CFR 600.002-77.


(2) The term *vehicle curb weight* is used as defined in 40 CFR 85.002.


(3) The term *interior volume index* is used as defined in 40 CFR 600.315-77.


(4) The term *frontal area* is used as defined in 40 CFR 86.129-79.


(5) The term *basic engine* is used as defined in 40 CFR 600.002-77(a)(21).


(6) The term *designated seating position* is defined in 49 CFR 571.3.


(7) As used in this part, unless otherwise required by the context:


*Act* means the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Pub. L. 92-513), as amended by the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94-163);


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration;


*Affected model year* means a model year for which an exemption and alternative average fuel economy standard are requested under this part;


*Production mix* means the number of passenger automobiles, and their percentage of the petitioner's annual total production of passenger automobiles, in each vehicle configuration which a petitioner plans to manufacture in a model year; and


*Total drive ratio* means the ratio of an automobile's engine rotational speed (in revolutions per minute) to the automobile's forward speed (in miles per hour).



---

[N] [42 FR 38376, July 28, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 55579, Sept. 27, 1979]




