# ยง 400.2   Conflict of interest.

(a) Each USDA awarding agency must establish conflict of interest policies for its Federal financial assistance actions. Each USDA awarding agency employee must comply with the requirements set forth at 5 CFR part 2635, as well as 5 CFR part 8301 where applicable, when the USDA employee takes any action related to Federal financial assistance.


(b) Recipients must disclose in writing any potential conflicts of interest to the USDA awarding agency or pass-through entity.


(1) Recipients must maintain written standards of conduct covering conflicts of interest and governing the performance of their employees in the selection, award and administration of Federal awards. No employee, officer or agent may participate in the selection, award, or administration of a Federal award if he or she has a real or apparent conflict of interest. Such a conflict of interest would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in or a tangible personal benefit from an entity considered for a Federal award. The recipient may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The standards of conduct must provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employees, or agents of the recipient.


(2) If the recipient has a parent, affiliate, or subsidiary organization that is not a state, local government, or Indian tribe, the non-Federal entity must also maintain written standards of conduct covering organizational conflicts of interest. Organizational conflicts of interest means that because of the relationships with a parent company, affiliate, or subsidiary organization, the recipient is unable or appears to be unable to be impartial in conducting a Federal award action involving a related organization.


(3) Recipients must establish internal controls that include, at a minimum, procedures to identify, disclose, and mitigate or eliminate identified conflicts of interest. Recipients are responsible for notifying the respective USDA awarding agency in writing of any conflicts of interest that may arise during the period of performance of an award, including those which have been reported by subrecipients, no later than 5 calendar days following discovery. Upon receipt of such a disclosure, the respective USDA awarding agency must review and make a determination in writing if a potential or real conflict of interest exists and develop a plan for addressing or mitigating the issue, which may include remedies found at 2 CFR 200.339. USDA awarding agencies must make a determination within 30 calendar days of disclosure unless a longer period of time is necessary due to the complexity of the situation.




