# ยง 153.520   Attribution and allocation of revenue and expense items.

(a) *Attribution to plans.* Each item of expense in the target amount with respect to a QHP must be reasonably attributable to the operation of the QHP issuer's non-grandfathered health plans in a market within a State, with the attribution based on a generally accepted accounting method, consistently applied. To the extent that a QHP issuer utilizes a specific method for allocating expenses for purposes of ยง 158.170 of this subchapter, the method used for purposes of this paragraph must be consistent.


(b) *Allocation across plans.* Each item of expense in the target amount must reflect an amount equal to the pro rata portion of the aggregate amount of such expense across all of the QHP issuer's non-grandfathered health plans in a market within a State, allocated to the QHP based on premiums earned.


(c) *Disclosure of attribution and**allocation methods.* A QHP issuer must submit to HHS a report, in the manner and timeframe specified in the annual HHS notice of benefit and payment parameters, with a detailed description of the methods and specific bases used to perform the attributions and allocations set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) *Attribution of reinsurance and risk adjustment to benefit year.* A QHP issuer must attribute reinsurance payments and risk adjustment payments and charges to allowable costs for the benefit year with respect to which the reinsurance payments or risk adjustment calculations apply.


(e) *Maintenance of records.* A QHP issuer must maintain documents and records, whether paper, electronic, or in other media, sufficient to enable the evaluation of the issuer's compliance with applicable risk corridors standards, for each benefit year for at least 10 years, and must make those documents and records available upon request from HHS, the OIG, the Comptroller General, or their designees, to any such entity, for purposes of verification, investigation, audit or other review.



---

[N] [77 FR 17248, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 15530, 15550, Mar. 11, 2013; 78 FR 65094, Oct. 30, 2013]




