# § 177.840   Class 2 (gases) materials.

(See also § 177.834 (a) to (j).)


(a) *Floors or platforms essentially flat.* Cylinders containing Class 2 (gases) materials shall not be loaded onto any part of the floor or platform of any motor vehicle which is not essentially flat; cylinders containing Class 2 (gases) materials may be loaded onto any motor vehicle not having a floor or platform only if such motor vehicle be equipped with suitable racks having adequate means for securing such cylinders in place therein. Nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit the loading of such cylinders on any motor vehicle having a floor or platform and racks as hereinbefore described.


(1) *Cylinders.* Cylinders containing Class 2 gases must be securely restrained in an upright or horizontal position, loaded in racks, or packed in boxes or crates to prevent the cylinders from being shifted, overturned or ejected from the motor vehicle under normal transportation conditions. A pressure relief device, when installed, must be in communication with the vapor space of a cylinder containing a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material.


(2) *Cylinders for hydrogen, cryogenic liquid.* A Specification DOT-4L cylinder containing hydrogen, cryogenic liquid may only be transported on a motor vehicle as follows:


(i) The vehicle must have an open body equipped with a suitable rack or support having a means to hold the cylinder upright when subjected to an acceleration of 2 “g” in any horizontal direction;


(ii) The combined total of the hydrogen venting rates, as marked, on the cylinders transported on one motor vehicle may not exceed 60 SCF per hour;


(iii) The vehicle may not enter a tunnel; and


(iv) Highway transportation is limited to private and contract carriage and to direct movement from point of origin to destination.


(3) *Cylinders containing material classed as Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A.* (i) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of § 177.848(d), a cylinder containing a Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A materials may be transported on the same transport vehicle with materials classed as Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 if all of the following requirements are met:


(A) The Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material must be packaged as authorized by this subchapter. In addition, each package must be must be placed in a plastic bag which is taped closed and then overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level with insulation material inside to protect the cylinders from fire. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications.


(B) A Division 2.1 material requiring strong non-bulk outer packagings in accordance with § 173.301(a)(9) of this subchapter must be overpacked in a UN 1A2 steel or 1H2 plastic drum tested and marked for a PG II or higher performance level. The outside of the overpack must be marked with an indication that the inner packagings conform to the prescribed specifications.


(C) Packages containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material must be separated within the transport vehicle from packages containing Division 2.1, Class 3, Class 4, Class 5, and Class 8 materials by a minimum horizontal distance of 1.2 m (4 feet). In addition, all steel or plastic overpacks containing packages of Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A or Division 2.1 material must be placed on pallets within the transport vehicle.


(ii) Notwithstanding the segregation requirements of § 177.848(d), Division 2.3, Hazard Zone A material may be transported on the same transport vehicle with non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing only the residue of Division 2.1, 4.3, 5.1, and Class 3 and 8 materials if all of the following requirements are met:


(A) The materials are transported in enclosed trailers equipped with inlet and outlet vent openings with a minimum total area of one square foot per 1,000 cubic feet of trailer volume. Electrical systems within the trailer's interior must be non-sparking or explosion proof.


(B) Cylinders must be transported in an upright position and securely restrained within the trailer, or loaded into racks, secured to pallets, or packed in wooden or fiberboard boxes or crates to prevent the cylinders from shifting or overturning within the motor vehicle under normal transportation conditions. If cylinders are secured to a pallet, the pallet must be designed to transport 1,590 kg (3,500 lbs.) per pallet and the cylinders must be secured within the pallet by a web strap rated at 4,545 kg (10,000 lbs.).


(C) A cylinder containing Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A materials must be separated from non-bulk packagings and IBCs meeting a UN performance standard containing the residue of materials in Division 2.1, 4.3, or 5.1, or Class 3 or 8 by a minimum horizontal distance of 3 m (10 feet). The maximum gross weight of Division 2.3 Hazard Zone A material carried on one vehicle must not exceed 3,636 kg (8,000 lbs.).


(D) Motor carriers must have a satisfactory safety rating as prescribed in 49 CFR part 385.


(4) *Cylinders for acetylene.* Cylinders containing acetylene and manifolded as part of a mobile acetylene trailer system must be transported in accordance with § 173.301(g) of this subchapter.


(b) Portable tank containers containing Class 2 (gases) materials shall be loaded on motor vehicles only as follows:


(1) Onto a flat floor or platform of a motor vehicle.


(2) Onto a suitable frame of a motor vehicle.


(3) In either such case, such containers shall be safely and securely blocked or held down to prevent shifting relative to each other or to the supporting structure when in transit, particularly during sudden starts and stops and changes of direction of the vehicle.


(4) Requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph (b) shall not be construed as prohibiting stacking of containers provided the provisions of paragraph (3) of this paragraph (b) are fully complied with.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Engine to be stopped in cargo tank motor vehicles, except for transfer pump.* No Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material shall be loaded into or on or unloaded from any cargo tank motor vehicles with the engine running unless the engine is used for the operation of the transfer pump of the vehicle. Unless the delivery hose is equipped with a shut-off valve at its discharge end, the engine of the motor vehicle shall be stopped at the finish of such loading or unloading operation while the filling or discharge connections are disconnected.


(e) Chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles shall be shipped only when equipped:


(1) With a gas mask of a type approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Pittsburgh Research Center, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for chlorine service; and


(2) With an emergency kit for controlling leaks in fittings on the dome cover plate.


(f) A cargo tank motor vehicle used for transportation of chlorine may not be moved, coupled or uncoupled, when any loading or unloading connections are attached to the vehicle, nor may it be left without the power unit attached unless the vehicle is chocked or equivalent means are provided to prevent motion. For additional requirements, see § 173.315(o) of this subchapter.


(g) Each liquid discharge valve on a cargo tank motor vehicle, other than an engine fuel line valve, must be closed during transportation except during loading and unloading.


(h) The driver of a motor vehicle transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a package exceeding 450 L (119 gallons) of water capacity shall avoid unnecessary delays during transportation. If unforeseen conditions cause an excessive pressure rise, the driver shall manually vent the tank at a remote and safe location. For each shipment, the driver shall make a written record of the cargo tank pressure and ambient (outside) temperature:


(1) At the start of each trip,


(2) Immediately before and after any manual venting,


(3) At least once every five hours, and


(4) At the destination point.


(i) No person may transport a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid in a cargo tank motor vehicle unless the pressure of the lading is equal to or less than that used to determine the marked rated holding time (MRHT) and the one-way travel time (OWTT), marked on the cargo tank in conformance with § 173.318(g) of this subchapter, is equal to or greater than the elapsed time between the start and termination of travel. This prohibition does not apply if, prior to expiration of the OWTT, the cargo tank is brought to full equilibration as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.


(j) Full equilibration of a cargo tank transporting a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid may only be done at a facility that loads or unloads a Division 2.1 (flammable gas) material that is a cryogenic liquid and must be performed and verified as follows:


(1) The temperature and pressure of the liquid must be reduced by a manually controlled release of vapor; and


(2) The pressure in the cargo tank must be measured at least ten minutes after the manual release is terminated.


(k) A carrier of carbon monoxide, cryogenic liquid must provide each driver with a self-contained air breathing apparatus that is approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health; for example, Mine Safety Appliance Co., Model 401, catalog number 461704.


(l) *Operating procedure.* Each operator of a cargo tank motor vehicle that is subject to the emergency discharge control requirements in § 173.315(n) of this subchapter must carry on or within the cargo tank motor vehicle written emergency discharge control procedures for all delivery operations. The procedures must describe the cargo tank motor vehicle's emergency discharge control features and, for a passive shut-down capability, the parameters within which they are designed to function. The procedures must describe the process to be followed if a facility-provided hose is used for unloading when the cargo tank motor vehicle has a specially equipped delivery hose assembly to meet the requirements of § 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter.


(m) *Cargo tank motor vehicle safety check.* Before unloading from a cargo tank motor vehicle containing a liquefied compressed gas, the qualified person performing the function must check those components of the discharge system, including delivery hose assemblies and piping, that are readily observed during the normal course of unloading to assure that they are of sound quality, without obvious defects detectable through visual observation and audio awareness, and that connections are secure. This check must be made after the pressure in the discharge system has reached at least equilibrium with the pressure in the cargo tank. Operators need not use instruments or take extraordinary actions to check components not readily visible. No operator may unload liquefied compressed gases from a cargo tank motor vehicle with a delivery hose assembly found to have any condition identified in § 180.416(g)(1) of this subchapter or with piping systems found to have any condition identified in § 180.416(g)(2) of this subchapter.


(n) *Emergency shut down.* If there is an unintentional release of product to the environment during unloading of a liquefied compressed gas, the qualified person unloading the cargo tank motor vehicle must promptly shut the internal self-closing stop valve or other primary means of closure and shut down all motive and auxiliary power equipment.


(o) *Daily test of off-truck remote shut-off activation device.* For a cargo tank motor vehicle equipped with an off-truck remote means to close the internal self-closing stop valve and shut off all motive and auxiliary power equipment, an operator must successfully test the activation device within 18 hours prior to the first delivery of each day. For a wireless transmitter/receiver, the person conducting the test must be at least 45.72 m (150 feet) from the cargo tank and may have the cargo tank in his line of sight.


(p) *Unloading procedures for liquefied petroleum gas and anhydrous ammonia in metered delivery service.* An operator must use the following procedures for unloading liquefied petroleum gas or anhydrous ammonia from a cargo tank motor vehicle in metered delivery service:


(1) For a cargo tank with a capacity of 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons) or less, excluding delivery hose and piping, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 45.72 meters (150 feet) of the cargo tank and 7.62 meters (25 feet) of the delivery hose and must observe both the cargo tank and the receiving container at least once every five minutes when the internal self-closing stop valve is open during unloading operations that take more than five minutes to complete.


(2) For a cargo tank with a capacity greater than 13,247.5 L (3,500 water gallons), excluding delivery hose and piping, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 45.72 m (150 feet) of the cargo tank and 7.62 m (25 feet) of the delivery hose when the internal self-closing stop valve is open.


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (p)(2)(ii) of this section, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must have an unobstructed view of the cargo tank and delivery hose to the maximum extent practicable, except during short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container.


(ii) For deliveries where the qualified person attending the unloading operation cannot maintain an unobstructed view of the cargo tank, when the internal self-closing stop valve is open, the qualified person must observe both the cargo tank and the receiving container at least once every five minutes during unloading operations that take more than five minutes to complete. In addition, by the compliance dates specified in §§ 173.315(n)(5) and 180.405(m)(3) of this subchapter, the cargo tank motor vehicle must have an emergency discharge control capability that meets the requirements of § 173.315(n)(2) or § 173.315(n)(4) of this subchapter.


(q) *Unloading procedures for liquefied petroleum gas and anhydrous ammonia in other than metered delivery service.* An operator must use the following procedures for unloading liquefied petroleum gas or anhydrous ammonia from a cargo tank motor vehicle in other than metered delivery service:


(1) The qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within 7.62 m (25 feet) of the cargo tank when the internal self-closing stop valve is open.


(2) The qualified person attending the unloading operation must have an unobstructed view of the cargo tank and delivery hose to the maximum extent practicable, except during short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container.


(r) *Unloading using facility-provided hoses.* A cargo tank motor vehicle equipped with a specially designed delivery hose assembly to meet the requirements of § 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter may be unloaded using a delivery hose assembly provided by the receiving facility under the following conditions:


(1) The qualified person monitoring unloading must visually examine the facility hose assembly for obvious defects prior to its use in the unloading operation.


(2) The qualified person monitoring unloading must remain within arm's reach of the mechanical means of closure for the internal self-closing stop valve when the internal self-closing stop valve is open except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container. For chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles, the qualified person must remain within arm's reach of a means to stop the flow of product except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container.


(3) If the facility hose is equipped with a passive means to shut off the flow of product that conforms to and is maintained to the performance standard in § 173.315(n)(2) of this subchapter, the qualified person may attend the unloading operation in accordance with the attendance requirements prescribed for the material being unloaded in § 177.834 of this section.


(s) *Off-truck remote shut-off activation device.* For a cargo tank motor vehicle with an off-truck remote control shut-off capability as required by § 173.315(n)(3) or (n)(4) of this subchapter, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must be in possession of the activation device at all times during the unloading process. This requirement does not apply if the activation device is part of a system that will shut off the unloading operation without human intervention in the event of a leak or separation in the hose.


(t) *Unloading without appropriate emergency discharge control equipment.* Until a cargo tank motor vehicle is equipped with emergency discharge control equipment in conformance with §§ 173.315(n)(2) and 180.405(m)(1) of this subchapter, the qualified person attending the unloading operation must remain within arm's reach of a means to close the internal self-closing stop valve when the internal self-closing stop valve is open except during short periods when the qualified person must activate controls or monitor the receiving container. For chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles unloaded after December 31, 1999, the qualified person must remain within arm's reach of a means to stop the flow of product except for short periods when it is necessary to activate controls or monitor the receiving container.


(u) *Unloading of chlorine cargo tank motor vehicles.* Unloading of chlorine from a cargo tank motor vehicle must be performed in compliance with Section 3 of the Chlorine Institute Pamphlet 57, “Emergency Shut-off Systems for Bulk Transfer of Chlorine” (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).



---

[N] [29 FR 18795, Dec. 29, 1964. Redesignated at 32 FR 5606, Apr. 5, 1967]


