# ยง 200.952   Supplementary specific requirements under the HUD building product standards and certification program for particleboard interior stair treads.

(a) *Applicable standards.* (1) All interior particleboard stair treads shall be designed, manufactured, and tested in compliance with ANSI A208.1-1993 Particleboard, Grade M-3.


(2) This standard has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register for incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51, and is available from the American National Standards Institute, Inc., 11 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.


(b) *Labeling.* Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(6) concerning labeling of a product, the administrator's validation mark and the manufacturer's certification of compliance with the applicable standard are required to be on the certification label issued by the administrator to the manufacturer. Each interior particleboard stair tread shall include the manufacturer's statement of conformance to UM 70b, a statement that this product is for interior use only, and the manufacturer's name and plant location.


(c) *Periodic tests and quality assurance.* Under the procedures set forth in ยง 200.935(d)(8) concerning periodic tests and quality assurance inspections, the frequency of testing for a product shall be described in the specific building product certification program. In the case of interior particleboard stair treads, testing and inspection shall be conducted as follows:


(1) At least once every three months, the administrator shall visit the manufacturer's facility to select a sample for testing in a laboratory approved by the administrator.


(2) The administrator shall also review the quality assurance procedures twice a year to assure that they are being followed by the manufacturer.



---

[N] [63 FR 5424, Feb. 2, 1998]




