# § 674.55   Teacher cancellation—Defense loans.

(a) *Cancellation for full-time teaching.* (1) An institution shall cancel up to 50 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Defense loan for full-time teaching in—


(i) A public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school;


(ii) An institution of higher education; or


(iii) An overseas Department of Defense elementary or secondary school.


(2) The cancellation rate is 10 percent of the original principal loan amount, plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each complete year, or its equivalent, of teaching.


(b) *Cancellation for full-time teaching in an elementary or secondary school serving low-income students.* (1) The institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Defense loan for full-time teaching in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school that—


(i) Is in a school district that qualifies for funds in that year under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; and


(ii) Has been selected by the Secretary based on a determination that a high concentration of students enrolled at the school are from low-income families.


(2)(i) The Secretary selects schools under paragraph (b)(1) of this section based on a ranking by the State education agency.


(ii) The State education agency shall base its ranking of the schools on objective standards and methods. These standards must take into account the numbers and percentages of title I children attending those schools.


(3) The Secretary considers all elementary and secondary schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or operated on Indian reservations by Indian tribal groups under contract with BIA to qualify as schools serving low-income students.


(4) For each academic year, the Secretary notifies participating institutions of the schools selected under paragraph (b) of this section.


(5) The cancellation rate is 15 percent of the original principal loan amount, plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each complete academic year, or its equivalent, of full-time teaching.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) Cancellation for full-time teaching under paragraph (b) of this section is available only for teaching beginning with academic year 1966-67.


(c) *Cancellation for full-time teaching of the handicapped.* (1) An institution shall cancel up to 100 percent of the outstanding balance on a borrower's Defense loan, plus interest, for full-time teaching of handicapped children in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school system.


(2) The cancellation rate is 15 percent of the original principal loan amount, plus the interest on the unpaid balance accruing during the year of qualifying service, for each complete academic year, or its equivalent, of full-time teaching.


(3) A borrower qualifies for cancellation under this paragraph only if a majority of the students whom the borrower teaches are handicapped children.


(4) Cancellation for full-time teaching under paragraph (c) of this section is available only for teaching beginning with the academic year 1967-68.


(d) *Teaching in a school system.* The Secretary considers a borrower to be teaching in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school system only if the borrower is directly employed by the school system.


(e) *Teaching children and adults.* A borrower who teaches both adults and children qualifies for cancellation for this service only if a majority of the students whom the borrower teaches are children.



---

[N] [52 FR 45758, Dec. 1, 1987. Redesignated and amended at 59 FR 61413, 61414, Nov. 30, 1994]




