# § 334.605   Meloy Channel, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach, Florida; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The restricted area shall encompass all navigable waters of the United States as defined at 33 CFR part 329, within the area bounded by a line connecting the following coordinates: Commencing from the shoreline at latitude 25°46′20.07″ N, longitude 080°08′50.94″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′22.69″ N, longitude 080°08′44.01″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′22.02″ N, longitude 080°08′42.14″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′12.23″ N, longitude 080°08'35.33″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′09.13″ N, longitude 080°08′40.74″ W; thence to latitude 25°46'11.63″ N, longitude 080°08'43.36″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′17.22″ N, longitude 080°08′47.17″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′17.15″ N, longitude 080°08′47.62″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′17.63″ N, longitude 080°08′49.33″ W; thence to latitude 25°46′18.91″ N, longitude 080°08′50.24″ W; thence proceed directly to a point on the shoreline at latitude 25°46′18.76″ N, longitude 080°08′50.71″ W thence following the mean high water line to the point of beginning.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section is only open to U.S. Government vessels. U.S. Government vessels include, but are not limited to, U.S. Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels, Department of Defense vessels, state and local law enforcement and emergency services vessels, and vessels under contract with the U.S. Government. Warning signs notifying individuals of the restricted area boundary and prohibiting all unauthorized entry into the area will be posted along the property boundary and, as appropriate, on the piers of the MacArthur Causeway Bridge adjacent to the restricted area.


(2) All persons, vessels, and other craft are prohibited from entering, transiting, drifting, dredging, or anchoring within the restricted area described in paragraph (a) of this section without prior approval from the Base Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach or his/her designated representative.


(3) Fishing, trawling, net-fishing, and other aquatic activities are prohibited in the restricted area without prior approval from the Base Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach or his/her designated representative.


(4) The restrictions described in paragraph (b) of this section are in effect 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Base Commander, U.S. Coast Guard Base Miami Beach and/or such persons or agencies as he/she may designate.



---

[N] [77 FR 42652, July 20, 2012]




