# ยง 520.10   Integrity of tariffs.

(a) *Historical data.* Carriers and conferences must keep the data that appeared in their tariff publication systems for a period of 5 years from the date such information is superseded, canceled, or withdrawn, and must provide online access to such data for 2 years. After 2 years, such data must be retained online or in other electronic form and must be made available to any person or the Commission upon request within 45 days, unless otherwise agreed. Carriers and conferences may charge a reasonable fee for the provision of historical data, not to exceed the fees for obtaining such data online. Carriers and conferences must not charge a fee to the Commission or any other Federal agency.


(b) *Access date capability.* Each tariff must provide the capability for a retriever to enter an access date, *i.e.,* a specific date for the retrieval of tariff data, so that only data in effect on that date would be directly retrievable. This capability would also align any rate adjustments and assessorial charges that were effective on the access date for rate calculations and designation of applicable surcharges. The access date also applies to the alignment of tariff objects for any governing tariffs.


(c) *Periodic review.* The Commission will periodically review published tariff systems and will prohibit the use of any system that fails to meet the requirements of this part.


(d) *Access to systems.* Carriers and conferences must provide the Commission reasonable access to their automated systems and records for the Commission's review.



---

[N] [64 FR 11225, Mar. 8, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 32, Jan. 2, 2024]






