# § 679.22   Closures.

(a) *BSAI*—(1) *Zone 1 (512) closure to trawl gear.* No fishing with trawl gear is allowed at any time in reporting Area 512 of Zone 1 in the Bering Sea subarea. 


(2) *Zone 1 (516) closure to trawl gear.* No fishing with trawl gear is allowed at any time in reporting Area 516 of Zone 1 in the Bering Sea Subarea during the period March 15 through June 15. 


(3) *Red King Crab Savings Area (RKCSA).* Directed fishing for groundfish by vessels using trawl gear other than pelagic trawl gear is prohibited at all times, except as provided at § 679.21(e)(3)(ii)(B), in that part of the Bering Sea subarea defined as RKCSA in Figure 11 to this part.


(4) *Walrus protection areas.* (i) From April 1 through September 30 of each calendar year, vessels designated on a Federal fisheries permit issued under § 679.4 are prohibited from deploying fishing gear in that part of the Bering Sea subarea between 3 and 12 nm seaward of the baseline used to measure the territorial sea around islands named Round Island and The Twins, as shown on National Ocean Survey Chart 16315, and around Cape Peirce (58°33′ N. lat., 161°43′ W. long.).


(ii) From April 1 through September 30 of each calendar year, vessels designated on a Federal fisheries permit issued under § 679.4 are prohibited in that part of the Bering Sea subarea between 3 and 12 nm seaward of the baseline used to measure the territorial sea around islands named Round Island and The Twins, as shown on National Ocean Survey Chart 16315, and around Cape Peirce (58°33′ N. lat., 161°43′ W. long.), except that from April 1 through August 15 of each calendar year vessels designated on a Federal fisheries permit are not prohibited from entering and transiting through waters off:


(A) Round Island, north of a straight line connecting 58°47.90′ N. lat./160°21.91′ W. long., and 58°32.94′ N. lat./159°35.45′ W. long.; and


(B) Cape Peirce, east of a straight line connecting 58°30.00′ N. lat./161°46.20′ W. long., and 58°21.00′ N. lat./161°46.20′ W. long.

(5) *Catcher Vessel Operational Area (CVOA)*—(i) *Definition.* The CVOA is defined as that part of the BSAI that is south of 56°00′ N lat. and between 163°00′ W long. and 167°30′ W long., and north of the Aleutian Islands (Figure 2 to part 679).


(ii) *Catcher/processor restrictions.* A catcher/processor vessel authorized to fish for BSAI pollock under § 679.4 is prohibited from conducting directed fishing for pollock in the CVOA during the B pollock season defined at § 679.23(e)(2)(ii), unless it is directed fishing for Pollock CDQ.


(6) *Pribilof Islands Habitat Conservation Zone.* Directed fishing for groundfish using trawl gear or pot gear, or fishing for halibut using pot gear, is prohibited at all times in the area defined in Figure 10 to this part as the Pribilof Islands Habitat Conservation Zone.


(7) *Steller sea lion protection areas, Bering Sea reporting areas*—(i) *Bogoslof area*—(A) *Boundaries.* The Bogoslof area consists of all waters of area 518 as described in Figure 1 of this part south of a straight line connecting 55°00′ N lat./170°00′ W long., and 55°00′ N lat./168°11′4.75′ W long.;


(B) *Fishing prohibition.* All waters within the Bogoslof area are closed to directed fishing for pollock, Pacific cod, and Atka mackerel by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b), except as provided in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(C) of this section.


(C) *Bogoslof Pacific cod exemption area.* (*1*) All catcher vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA using jig or hook-and-line gear for directed fishing for Pacific cod are exempt from the Pacific cod fishing prohibition as described in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section in the portion of the Bogoslof area south of a line connecting a point 3 nm north of Bishop Point (54°01′25″ N lat./166°57′00″ W long.) to Cape Tanak (53°33′50″ N lat./168°00′00″ W long.), not including waters of the Bishop Point Pacific cod fishing closures as described in Table 5 of this part.


(*2*) If the Regional Administrator determines that 113 mt of Pacific cod have been caught by catcher vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA using jig or hook-and-line gear in the exemption area described in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(C)(1) of this section, the Regional Administrator will prohibit directed fishing for Pacific cod by catcher vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA using jig or hook-and-line gear in the exemption area by notification published in the _Federal Register._

(ii) *Bering Sea Pollock Restriction Area*—(A) *Boundaries.* The Bering Sea Pollock Restriction Area consists of all waters of the Bering Sea subarea south of a line connecting the points 163°0′00″ W long./55°46′30″ N lat., 165°08′00″ W long./54°42′9″ N lat., 165°40′00″ W long./54°26′30″ N lat., 166°12′00″ W long./54°18′40″ N lat., and 167°0′00″ W long./54°8′50″ N lat.


(B) *Fishing prohibition.* All waters within the Bering Sea Pollock Restriction Area are closed during the A season, as defined at § 679.23(e)(2), to directed fishing for pollock by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b).


(iii) *Groundfish closures.* Directed fishing for groundfish by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within 3 nm of selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 12 of this part and are identified by “Bering Sea” in column 2.


(iv) *Pollock closures.* Directed fishing for pollock by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within pollock no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 4 of this part and are identified by “Bering Sea” in column 2.


(v) *Pacific cod closures.* Directed fishing for Pacific cod by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) and using trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear is prohibited within the Pacific cod no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites and gear types are listed in Table 5 of this part and are identified by “BS” in column 2.


(vi) *Atka mackerel closures.* Directed fishing for Atka mackerel by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) and using trawl gear is prohibited within the Bering Sea reporting areas.


(vii) *Steller sea lion conservation area (SCA)*—(A) *General.* Directed fishing for pollock by vessels catching pollock for processing by the inshore component, catcher/processors in the offshore component, motherships in the offshore component, or directed fishing for CDQ pollock, is prohibited within the SCA until April 1 when the Regional Administrator announces, by notification in the _Federal Register,_ that the criteria set out in paragraph (a)(7)(vii)(C) of this section have been met by that industry component.


(B) *Boundaries.* The SCA consists of the area of the Bering Sea subarea between 170°00′ W long. and 163°00′ W long., south of straight lines connecting the following points in the order listed:


55°00′ N lat. 170°00′ W long.;


55°00′ N lat. 168°00′ W long.;


55°30′ N lat. 168°00′ W long.;


55°30′ N lat. 166°00′ W long.;


56°00′ N lat. 166°00′ W long.; and,


56°00′ N lat. 163°00′ W long.


(C) *Criteria for closure*—(*1*) *General.* The directed fishing closures identified in paragraph (a)(7)(vii)(A) of this section will take effect when the Regional Administrator determines that the harvest limit for pollock within the SCA, as specified in § 679.20(a)(5)(i)(C) is reached before April 1. The Regional Administrator shall prohibit directed fishing for pollock in the SCA by notification published in the _Federal Register._

(*2*) *Inshore catcher vessels greater than 99 ft (30.2 m) LOA.* The Regional Administrator will prohibit directed fishing for pollock by vessels greater than 99 ft (30.2 m) LOA, catching pollock for processing by the inshore component before reaching the inshore SCA harvest limit before April 1 to accommodate fishing by vessels less than or equal to 99 ft (30.2 m) inside the SCA until April 1. The Regional Administrator will estimate how much of the inshore seasonal allowance is likely to be harvested by catcher vessels less than or equal to 99 ft (30.2 m) LOA and reserve a sufficient amount of the inshore SCA allowance to accommodate fishing by such vessels after the closure of the SCA to inshore vessels greater than 99 ft (30.2 m) LOA. The Regional Administrator will prohibit directed fishing for all inshore catcher vessels within the SCA when the harvest limit specified in § 679.20(a)(5)(i)(C) has been met before April 1.


(8) *Steller sea lion protection areas, Aleutian Islands reporting areas*—(i) *Seguam Foraging area.* (A) The Seguam foraging area is all waters within the area between 52° N lat. and 53° N lat. and between 173°30′ W long. and 172°30′ W long.


(B) Directed fishing for pollock, Pacific cod, and Atka mackerel by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited in the Seguam Foraging area as described in paragraph (a)(8)(i)(A) of this section.


(ii) *Pollock Closure.* Directed fishing for pollock by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within the pollock no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 4 of this part and are identified by “Aleutian I.” in column 2.


(iii) *Groundfish closures.* Directed fishing for groundfish by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within 3 nm of selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 12 of this part and are identified by “Aleutian Islands” in column 2.


(iv) *Pacific cod closures.* Directed fishing for Pacific cod required to be deducted from the Federal TAC specified at § 679.20 by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) using trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear is prohibited within Pacific cod no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites and gear types are described in Table 5 of this part and its footnotes and are identified by “AI” in column 2.


(v) *Atka mackerel closures.* Directed fishing for Atka mackerel by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) and using trawl gear is prohibited within Atka mackerel no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 6 of this part and are identified by “Aleutian Islands” in column 2.


(9) *Nearshore Bristol Bay Trawl Closure.* Directed fishing for groundfish by vessels using trawl gear in Bristol Bay, as described in the current edition of NOAA chart 16006, is closed at all times in the area east of 162°00′ W. long., except that the Nearshore Bristol Bay Trawl Area defined in Figure 12 to this part is open to trawling from 1200 hours A.l.t., April 1 to 1200 hours A.l.t., June 15 of each year.


(10) *Chum Salmon Savings Area.* Directed fishing for pollock by vessels using trawl gear is prohibited from August 1 through August 31 in the Chum Salmon Savings Area defined at Figure 9 to this part (see also § 679.21(f)(14)). Vessels directed fishing for pollock in the BS, including pollock CDQ, and operating under an approved IPA under § 679.21(f)(12) are exempt from closures in the Chum Salmon Savings Area.


(11) [Reserved] 


(12) *Alaska Seamount Habitat Protection Areas.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with bottom contact gear in the Alaska Seamount Habitat Protection Areas, as described in Table 22 to this part.


(13) *Aleutian Islands Coral Habitat Protection Areas.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with bottom contact gear in the Aleutian Islands Coral Habitat Protection Areas, as described in Table 23 to this part.


(14) *Aleutian Islands Habitat Conservation Area.* Except within those areas identified as opened to nonpelagic trawl gear fishing in Table 24 to this part, no federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Aleutian Islands Habitat Conservation Area, as described in Table 24 to this part.


(15) *Bowers Ridge Habitat Conservation Zone.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with mobile bottom contact gear in the Bowers Ridge Habitat Conservation Zone, as described in Table 25 to this part.


(16) *Bering Sea Habitat Conservation Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Bering Sea Habitat Conservation Area specified at Table 42 and Figure 16 to this part.


(17) *Northern Bering Sea Research Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Northern Bering Sea Research Area specified at Table 43 and Figure 17 to this part.


(18) *Nunivak Island, Etolin Strait, and Kuskokwim Bay Habitat Conservation Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Nunivak Island, Etolin Strait, and Kuskokwim Bay Habitat Conservation Area specified at Table 44 and Figure 21 to this part.


(19) *St. Lawrence Island Habitat Conservation Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the St. Lawrence Island Habitat Conservation Area specified at Table 45 to this part.


(20) *St. Matthew Island Habitat Conservation Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the St. Matthew Island Habitat Conservation Area specified at Table 46 to this part.


(21) *Modified Gear Trawl Zone.* No vessel required to be federally permitted may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Modified Gear Trawl Zone specified at Table 51 to this part, except for federally permitted vessels that are directed fishing for groundfish using modified nonpelagic trawl gear that meets the standards at § 679.24(f).


(b) *GOA*—(1) *Kodiak Island, trawls other than pelagic trawls*—(i) *Type I closures.* No person may trawl in waters of the EEZ within the vicinity of Kodiak Island, as shown in Figure 5 to this part as Type I areas, from a vessel having any trawl other than a pelagic trawl either attached or on board, except as follows. Vessels in the trawl EM category may have a trawl other than a pelagic trawl either attached or on board, but may not deploy a trawl other than a pelagic trawl in a Type I area.

 


(ii) *Type II closures.* From February 15 to June 15, no person may trawl in waters of the EEZ within the vicinity of Kodiak Island, as shown in Figure 5 to this part as Type II areas, from a vessel having any trawl other than a pelagic trawl either attached or on board, except as follows. Vessels in the trawl EM category may have a trawl other than a pelagic trawl either attached or on board, but may not deploy a trawl other than a pelagic trawl in a Type II area.


(iii) *Type III closures.* Type III areas are open unless otherwise closed to trawling.


(2) *Steller sea lion protection areas*—(i) *Groundfish closures.* Directed fishing for groundfish by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within 3 nm of selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 12 of this part and are identified by “Gulf of Alaska” in column 2.


(ii) *Pollock closures.* Directed fishing for pollock by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) is prohibited within pollock no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites are listed in Table 4 of this part and are identified by “Gulf of Alaska” in column 2.


(iii) *Pacific cod closures.* Directed fishing for Pacific cod by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) and using trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear in the federally managed Pacific cod or State of Alaska parallel groundfish fisheries, as defined in Alaska Administrative Code (5 AAC 28.087(c), January 3, 2002), is prohibited within Pacific cod no-fishing zones around selected sites. These sites and gear types are listed in Table 5 of this part and are identified by “GOA” in column 2.


(iv) *Atka mackerel closure.* Directed fishing for Atka mackerel by vessels named on a Federal Fisheries Permit under § 679.4(b) within the Gulf of Alaska subarea is prohibited at all times.


(3) *Marmot Bay Tanner Crab Protection Area.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with trawl gear in the Marmot Bay Tanner Crab Protection Area, as described in Figure 5 to this part, except federally permitted vessels directed fishing for pollock using pelagic trawl gear.


(4) *Southeast Outside District, gear other than nontrawl.* Use of any gear other than nontrawl gear is prohibited at all times in Southeast Outside District defined at Figure 3 to this part.


(5) *Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve.* (i) No FFP holder may fish for groundfish in the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve, and no vessel named on an FFP may be anchored in the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve, as described in Figure 18 to this part.


(ii) No person fishing under an IFQ halibut permit may fish for halibut and no person fishing under an IFQ sablefish permit may fish for sablefish in the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve; and no vessel with an IFQ permit holder or IFQ hired master permit holder onboard may be anchored in the Sitka Pinnacles Marine Reserve, as described in Figure 18 to this part.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) *Cook Inlet.* No person may use a non-pelagic trawl in waters of the EEZ of Cook Inlet north of a line from Cape Douglas (58°51.10′ N. lat.) to Point Adam (59°15.27′ N. lat.).


(8) *Alaska Seamount Habitat Protection Areas.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with bottom contact gear in the Alaska Seamount Habitat Protection Areas, as described in Table 22 to this part.


(9) *Gulf of Alaska Coral Habitat Protection Areas.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with bottom contact gear in the Gulf of Alaska Coral Habitat Protection Areas, as described in Table 26 to this part.


(10) *Gulf of Alaska Slope Habitat Conservation Areas.* No federally permitted vessel may fish with nonpelagic trawl gear in the Gulf of Alaska Slope Habitat Conservation Areas, as described in Table 27 to this part.


(c) *Directed fishing closures.* See § 679.20(d) and § 679.20(i). 


(d) *Groundfish as prohibited species closures.* See § 679.20(d). 


(e) *Overfishing closures.* See § 679.20(d). 


(f) *Prohibited species closures.* See § 679.21. 


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *CDQ fisheries closures.* See § 679.7(d)(5) for time and area closures that apply to the CDQ fisheries once the non-Chinook salmon PSQ and crab PSQ amounts have been reached.


(i) *Forage fish, grenadiers, squids, and sculpins closures.* See § 679.20(i)(3).



---

[N] [61 FR 31230, June 19, 1996]


