# § 1.1014-2   Property acquired from a decedent.

(a) *In general.* The following property, except where otherwise indicated, is considered to have been acquired from a decedent and the basis thereof is determined in accordance with the general rule in § 1.1014-1:


(1) Without regard to the date of the decedent's death, property acquired by bequest, devise, or inheritance, or by the decedent's estate from the decedent, whether the property was acquired under the decedent's will or under the law governing the descent and distribution of the property of decedents. However, see paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the property was acquired by bequest or inheritance from a decedent dying after August 26, 1937, and if such property consists of stock or securities of a foreign personal holding company.


(2) Without regard to the date of the decedent's death, property transferred by the decedent during his lifetime in trust to pay the income for life to or on the order or direction of the decedent, with the right reserved to the decedent at all times before his death to revoke the trust.


(3) In the case of decedents dying after December 31, 1951, property transferred by the decedent during his lifetime in trust to pay the income for life to or on the order or direction of the decedent with the right reserved to the decedent at all times before his death to make any change in the enjoyment thereof through the exercise of a power to alter, amend, or terminate the trust.


(4) Without regard to the date of the decedent's death, property passing without full and adequate consideration under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent by will. (See section 2041(b) for definition of general power of appointment.)


(5) In the case of decedents dying after December 31, 1947, property which represents the surviving spouse's one-half share of community property held by the decedent and the surviving spouse under the community property laws of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or any foreign country, if at least one-half of the whole of the community interest in that property was includible in determining the value of the decedent's gross estate under part III, chapter 11 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (relating to the estate tax) or section 811 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. It is not necessary for the application of this subparagraph that an estate tax return be required to be filed for the estate of the decedent or that an estate tax be payable.


(6) In the case of decedents dying after December 31, 1950, and before January 1, 1954, property which represents the survivor's interest in a joint and survivor's annuity if the value of any part of that interest was required to be included in determining the value of the decedent's gross estate under section 811 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. It is necessary only that the value of a part of the survivor's interest in the annuity be includible in the gross estate under section 811. It is not necessary for the application of this subparagraph that an estate tax return be required to be filed for the estate of the decedent or that an estate tax be payable.


(b) *Property acquired from a decedent dying after December 31, 1953*—(1) *In general.* In addition to the property described in paragraph (a) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, in the case of a decedent dying after December 31, 1953, property shall also be considered to have been acquired from the decedent to the extent that both of the following conditions are met: (i) The property was acquired from the decedent by reason of death, form of ownership, or other conditions (including property acquired through the exercise or non-exercise of a power of appointment), and (ii) the property is includible in the decedent's gross estate under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, because of such acquisition. The basis of such property in the hands of the person who acquired it from the decedent shall be determined in accordance with the general rule in § 1.1014-1. See, however, § 1.1014-6 for special adjustments if such property is acquired before the death of the decedent. See also subparagraph (3) of this paragraph for a description of property not within the scope of this paragraph.


(2) *Rules for the application of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.* Except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, this paragraph generally includes all property acquired from a decedent, which is includible in the gross estate of the decedent if the decedent died after December 31, 1953. Except as provided in § 1.1014-10, it is not necessary for the application of this paragraph (b)(2) that an estate tax return be required to be filed for the estate of the decedent or that an estate tax be payable. Property acquired prior to the death of a decedent which is includible in the decedent's gross estate, such as property transferred by a decedent in contemplation of death, and property held by a taxpayer and the decedent as joint tenants or as tenants by the entireties is within the scope of this paragraph. Also, this paragraph includes property acquired through the exercise or nonexercise of a power of appointment where such property is includible in the decedent's gross estate. It does not include property not includible in the decedent's gross estate such as property not situated in the United States acquired from a nonresident who is not a citizen of the United States.


(3) *Exceptions to application of this paragraph.* The rules in this paragraph are not applicable to the following property:


(i) Annuities described in section 72;


(ii) Stock or securities of a foreign personal holding company as described in section 1014(b)(5) (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section);


(iii) Property described in any paragraph other than paragraph (9) of section 1014(b). See paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.


(c) *Special basis rules with respect to certain property acquired from a decedent*—(1) *Stock or securities of a foreign personal holding company.* The basis of certain stock or securities of a foreign corporation which was a foreign personal holding company with respect to its taxable year next preceding the date of the decedent's death is governed by a special rule. If such stock was acquired from a decedent dying after August 26, 1937, by bequest or inheritance, or by the decedent's estate from the decedent, the basis of the property in the hands of the person who so acquired it (notwithstanding any other provision of section 1014) shall be the fair market value of such property at the date of the decedent's death or the adjusted basis of the stock in the hands of the decedent, whichever is lower.


(2) *Spouse's interest in community property of decedent dying after October 21, 1942, and on or before December 31, 1947.* In the case of a decedent dying after October 21, 1942, and on or before December 31, 1947, a special rule is provided for determining the basis of such part of any property, representing the surviving spouse's one-half share of property held by the decedent and the surviving spouse under the community property laws of any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or any foreign country, as was included in determining the value of the decedent's gross estate, if a tax under chapter 3 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 was payable upon the decedent's net estate. In such case the basis shall be the fair market value of such part of the property at the date of death (or the optional valuation elected under section 811(j) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) or the adjusted basis of the property determined without regard to this subparagraph, whichever is the higher.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 9991, 89 FR 76375, Sept. 17, 2024]










