# § 31.3121(a)(8)-1   Payments for agricultural labor.

(a) *Scope of this section.* For purposes of the regulations in this section, the term “agricultural labor” means only such agricultural labor (see § 31.3121(g)-1) as constitutes employment or is deemed to constitute employment by reason of the rules relating to included and excluded services contained in section 3121(c) (see § 31.3121(c)-1) or the corresponding section of prior law.


(b) *Payments other than in cash.* The term “wages” does not include remuneration paid in any medium other than cash for agricultural labor. For meaning of the term “cash remuneration”, see paragraph (f) of the regulations in this section.


(c) *Cash payments.* (1) The term *wages* does not include cash remuneration paid by an employer in any calendar year to an employee for agricultural labor unless—


(i) The cash remuneration paid in such year by the employer to the employee for such labor is $150 or more; or


(ii) The employer's expenditures for agricultural labor in such year equal or exceed $2,500, except that this paragraph (c)(1)(ii) shall not apply in determining whether remuneration paid to an employee constitutes wages for agricultural labor if such employee—


(A) Is employed as a hand-harvest laborer and is paid on a piece rate basis in an operation which has been, and is customarily and generally recognized as having been, paid on a piece rate basis in the region of employment;


(B) Commutes daily from his permanent residence to the farm on which he is so employed; and


(C) Has been employed in agriculture less than 13 weeks during the preceding calendar year.


(2) The application of the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:


(d) *Application of cash-remuneration test.* (1) If an employee receives cash remuneration from an employer both for services which constitute agricultural labor and for services which do not constitute agricultural labor, only the amount of such remuneration which is attributable to agricultural labor shall be included in determining whether cash remuneration of $150 or more has been paid in the calendar year by the employer to the employee for agricultural labor. The following example illustrates this paragraph (d)(1):


(2) The test relating to cash remuneration of $150 or more is based on the cash remuneration paid in a calendar year rather than on the remuneration earned during a calendar year. It is immaterial if such cash remuneration is paid in a calendar year other than the year in which the agricultural labor is performed. The following example illustrates this paragraph (d)(2):


(3) In determining whether $150 or more has been paid to an employee for agricultural labor, only cash remuneration for such labor shall be taken into account. If an employee receives cash remuneration in any one calendar year from more than one employer for agricultural labor, the cash-remuneration test is to be applied with respect to the remuneration received by the employee from each employer in such calendar year for such labor.


(e) *Application of employer's-expenditures-for-agricultural-labor test.* (1) If an employer has expenditures in a calendar year for agricultural labor and for non-agricultural labor, only the amount of such expenditures for agricultural labor shall be included in determining whether the employer's expenditures for agricultural labor in such year equal or exceed $2,500. The following example illustrates this paragraph (e)(1):


(2) The test relating to an employer's expenditures of $2,500 or more for agricultural labor is based on the expenditures paid by the employer in a calendar year rather than on the expenses incurred by the employer during a calendar year. It is immaterial if the expenditures are paid in a calendar year other than the year in which the agricultural labor is performed. The following example illustrates this paragraph (e)(2):


(f) *Meaning of “cash remuneration.”* Cash remuneration includes checks and other monetary media of exchange. Cash remuneration does not include payments made in any other medium, such as lodging, food, clothing, car tokens, transportation passes or tickets, farm products, or other goods or commodities.


(g) *Cross references.* (1) For provisions relating to deductions of employee tax or amounts equivalent to the tax from cash payments for agricultural labor, see § 31.3102-1.


(2) For provisions relating to the time of payment of wages for agricultural labor, see § 31.3121(a)-2.


(3) For provisions relating to records to be kept with respect to agricultural labor, see paragraph (b) of § 31.6001-2.


(h) *Effective dates.* The provisions of this section apply to any payment for agricultural labor made on or after January 1, 1988. For rules applicable to any payment for agricultural labor made prior to January 1, 1988, *see* § 31.3121(a)(8)-1 in effect at such time (*see* 26 CFR part 31 contained in the edition of 26 CFR parts 30 to 39, revised as of April 1, 2006).



---

[N] [T.D. 6744, 29 FR 8308, July 2, 1964, as amended by T.D. 9266, 71 FR 35155, June 19, 2006]




