# § 1102.12   Manufacturer comments.

(a) *Who may submit.* A manufacturer or private labeler may submit a comment related to a report of harm if the report of harm identifies such manufacturer or private labeler.


(b) *How to submit.* A manufacturer or private labeler may submit comments to the CPSC using one of the following methods:


(1) A manufacturer or private labeler who registers with the Commission as described in § 1102.20(f) may submit comments through a manufacturer portal maintained on the CPSC's Internet Web site;


(2) A manufacturer or private labeler may submit comments by electronic mail, directed to the Office of the Secretary at *info@cpsc.gov;* or


(3) A manufacturer or private labeler may submit written comments directed to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814-4408.


(c) *What must be submitted.* Subject to §§ 1102.24 and 1102.26, the Commission will publish manufacturer comments related to a report of harm transmitted to a manufacturer or private labeler in the Database if such manufacturer comment meets the following requirements:


(1) *Manufacturer comment relates to report of harm.* The manufacturer or private labeler's comment must relate to information contained in a specific report of harm that identifies such manufacturer or private labeler and that is submitted for publication in the Database.


(2) *Unique identifier.* A manufacturer comment must state the unique identifier provided by the CPSC.


(3) *Verification.* A manufacturer or private labeler must verify that it has reviewed the report of harm and the comment related to the report of harm and that the information contained in the comment is true and accurate to the best of the firm's knowledge, information, and belief.


(4) *Request for publication.* When a manufacturer or private labeler submits a comment regarding a report of harm, it may request that the Commission publish such comment in the Database. A manufacturer or private labeler must affirmatively request publication of the comment, and consent to such publication in the Database, for each comment submitted to the CPSC.


(d) *Information published.* Subject to §§ 1102.24 and 1102.26, the Commission will publish a manufacturer comment and the date of its submission to the CPSC in the Database if the comment meets the minimum requirements for publication as described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(e) *Information not published.* The Commission will not publish in the Database consents and verifications associated with a manufacturer comment.




