# ยง 990.180   Utilities expense level: Computation of the rolling base consumption level.

(a) *General.* (1) The rolling base consumption level (RBCL) shall be equal to the average of yearly consumption levels for the 36-month period ending on the June 30th that is 18 months prior to the first day of the applicable funding period.


(2) The yearly consumption level is the actual amount of each utility consumed during a 12-month period ending June 30th. For example, for the funding period January 1, 2006, through December 31, 2006, the RBCL will be the average of the following yearly consumption levels:


(i) Year 1 = July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2002.


(ii) Year 2 = July 1, 2002, through June 30, 2003.


(iii) Year 3 = July 1, 2003, through June 30, 2004.


(b) *Distortions to rolling base consumption level.* The PHA shall have its RBCL determined so as not to distort the rolling base period in accordance with a method prescribed by HUD if:


(1) A project has not been in operation during at least 12 months of the rolling base period;


(2) A project enters or exits management after the rolling base period and prior to the end of the applicable funding period; or


(3) A project has experienced a conversion from one energy source to another, switched from PHA-supplied to resident-purchased utilities during or after the rolling base period, or for any other reason that would cause the RBCL not to be comparable to the current year's consumption level.


(c) *Financial incentives.* The three-year rolling base for all relevant utilities will be adjusted to reflect any financial incentives to the PHA to reduce consumption as described in ยง 990.185.




