# § 35.6335   Property management standards.

The recipient must comply with the following property management standards for property purchased with CERCLA funds. The recipient may use its own property management system if it meets the following standards.


(a) *Control.* The recipient must maintain:


(1) *Property records* for CERCLA-funded property which include the contents specified in § 35.6700(c);


(2) *A control system* that ensures adequate safeguards for prevention of loss, damage, or theft of the property. The recipient must make provisions for the thorough investigation and documentation of any loss, damage, or theft;


(3) *Procedures* to ensure maintenance of the property are in good condition and periodic calibration of the instruments used for precision measurements;


(4) *Sales procedures* to ensure the highest possible return, if the recipient is authorized to sell the property;


(5) *Provisions for financial control and accounting* in the financial management system of all equipment; and


(6) *Identification* of all federally owned property.


(b) *Inventory and reporting for CERCLA-funded equipment*—(1) *Physical inventory.* The recipient must conduct a physical inventory at least once every two years for all equipment except that which is part of the in-place remedy. The recipient must reconcile physical inventory results with the equipment records.


(2) *Inventory reports.* The recipient must comply with requirements for inventory reports set forth in § 35.6660.


(c) *Inventory and reporting for federally owned property*—(1) *Physical inventory.* The recipient must conduct a physical inventory:


(i) Annually;


(ii) When the property is no longer needed; and


(iii) Within 90 days after the end of the project period.


(2) *Inventory reports.* The recipient must comply with requirements for inventory reports in § 35.6660.




