# § 5.630   Minimum rent.

(a) *Minimum rent.* (1) The PHA must charge a family no less than a minimum monthly rent established by the responsible entity, except as described in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(2) For the public housing program and the section 8 moderate rehabilitation or voucher programs, the PHA may establish a minimum rent of up to $50. 


(3) For other section 8 programs, the minimum rent is $25. 


(b) *Financial hardship exemption from minimum rent*—(1) *When is family exempt from minimum rent?* The responsible entity must grant an exemption from payment of minimum rent if the family is unable to pay the minimum rent because of financial hardship, as described in the responsible entity's written policies. Financial hardship includes these situations: 


(i) When the family has lost eligibility for or is awaiting an eligibility determination for a Federal, State, or local assistance program, including a family that includes a member who is a noncitizen lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the Immigration and Nationality Act who would be entitled to public benefits but for title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act of 1996; 


(ii) When the family would be evicted because it is unable to pay the minimum rent; 


(iii) When the income of the family has decreased because of changed circumstances, including loss of employment; 


(iv) When a death has occurred in the family; and 


(v) Other circumstances determined by the responsible entity or HUD. 


(2) *What happens if family requests a hardship exemption?* (i) *Public housing.* (A) If a family requests a financial hardship exemption, the PHA must suspend the minimum rent requirement beginning the month following the family's request for a hardship exemption, and continuing until the PHA determines whether there is a qualifying financial hardship and whether it is temporary or long term. 


(B) The PHA must promptly determine whether a qualifying hardship exists and whether it is temporary or long term. 


(C) The PHA may not evict the family for nonpayment of minimum rent during the 90-day period beginning the month following the family's request for a hardship exemption. 


(D) If the PHA determines that a qualifying financial hardship is temporary, the PHA must reinstate the minimum rent from the beginning of the suspension of the minimum rent. The PHA must offer the family a reasonable repayment agreement, on terms and conditions established by the PHA, for the amount of back minimum rent owed by the family. 


(ii) *All section 8 programs.* (A) If a family requests a financial hardship exemption, the responsible entity must suspend the minimum rent requirement beginning the month following the family's request for a hardship exemption until the responsible entity determines whether there is a qualifying financial hardship, and whether such hardship is temporary or long term. 


(B) The responsible entity must promptly determine whether a qualifying hardship exists and whether it is temporary or long term. 


(C) If the responsible entity determines that a qualifying financial hardship is temporary, the PHA must not impose the minimum rent during the 90-day period beginning the month following the date of the family's request for a hardship exemption. At the end of the 90-day suspension period, the responsible entity must reinstate the minimum rent from the beginning of the suspension. The family must be offered a reasonable repayment agreement, on terms and conditions established by the responsible entity, for the amount of back rent owed by the family. 


(iii) *All programs.* (A) If the responsible entity determines there is no qualifying financial hardship exemption, the responsible entity must reinstate the minimum rent, including back rent owed from the beginning of the suspension. The family must pay the back rent on terms and conditions established by the responsible entity. 


(B) If the responsible entity determines a qualifying financial hardship is long term, the responsible entity must exempt the family from the minimum rent requirements so long as such hardship continues. Such exemption shall apply from the beginning of the month following the family's request for a hardship exemption until the end of the qualifying financial hardship. 


(C) The financial hardship exemption only applies to payment of the minimum rent (as determined pursuant to § 5.628(a)(4) and § 5.630), and not to the other elements used to calculate the total tenant payment (as determined pursuant to § 5.628(a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(3)). 


(3) *Public housing: Grievance hearing concerning PHA denial of request for hardship exemption.* If a public housing family requests a hearing under the PHA grievance procedure, to review the PHA's determination denying or limiting the family's claim to a financial hardship exemption, the family is not required to pay any escrow deposit in order to obtain a grievance hearing on such issues. 



---

[N] [65 FR 16718, Mar. 29, 2000, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]




