# § 121.404   When is the size status of a business concern determined?

(a) *General.* A concern, including its affiliates, must qualify as small under the NAICS code assigned to a contract as of the date the concern submits a written self-certification that it is small to the procuring activity as part of its initial offer or response which includes price. Once awarded a contract as a small business, a firm is generally considered to be a small business throughout the life of that contract.


(b) *Multiple Award Contracts.* (1) If a single NAICS code is assigned to a multiple award contract as set forth in § 121.402(c)(1)(i), SBA determines size status for the underlying multiple award contract as of the date a business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, for the contract based upon the size standard set forth in the solicitation for the multiple award contract.


(2) When multiple NAICS codes are assigned to a multiple award contract as set forth in § 121.402(c)(1)(ii), SBA determines size status for the underlying multiple award contract for each discrete category for which an offer is submitted, by applying the size standard corresponding to each discrete category, as of the date a business concern submits its initial offer which includes price for the contract.


(3) Where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the initial offer for a multiple award contract, SBA determines size status for the underlying multiple award contract as of the date a business concern submits its initial offer for the contract, which may not include price.


(c) *Orders and Agreements Established Against Multiple Award Contracts*—(1) *Unrestricted Contracts.* Where an order is set-aside for small business under an unrestricted multiple award contract, SBA determines size status for each order placed against the multiple award contract as of the date a business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, for each order.


(2) *Set-Aside or Reserved Contracts.* Where an order is issued under a multiple award contract that itself was set aside or reserved for small business (*i.e.,* small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned/economically-disadvantaged women-owned small business), SBA determines size status as of the date a business concern submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the set-aside or reserved multiple award contract, unless a contracting officer requests size recertification with respect to a specific order.


(i) Where a contracting officer requests size recertification with respect to a specific order, size is determined as of the date the business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, for the order.


(ii) Where a contracting officer requests size recertification with respect to a specific order, size is determined only with respect to that order. Where a contract holder has grown to be other than small and cannot recertify as small for a specific order for which a contracting officer requested recertification, it may continue to qualify as small for other orders issued under the contract where a contracting officer does not request recertification.


(3) *Agreements.* With respect to agreements established under FAR part 13, size is determined as of the date the business concern submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the agreement. Because an agreement is not a contract, the concern must also qualify as small as of the date the concern submits its initial offer, which includes price, for each order issued pursuant to the agreement to be considered small for the order.


(4) *Exceptions.* (i) For orders or BPAs to be placed against the GSA Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) Multiple Award Schedule (MAS) contract, size is determined as of the date the business concern submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the GSA FSS MAS contract.


(ii) For 8(a) sole source orders issued under a multiple award contract, size is determined in accordance with § 124.503(i)(1)(iv) of this chapter, as of the date the order is offered to the 8(a) BD program, regardless of whether the multiple award contract is unrestricted, set-aside, or the GSA FSS MAS contract.


(iii) Size is determined on the date of recertification when a recertification is required pursuant to §§ 125.12(a) and (b) of this chapter, or on the date of initial offer which includes price if requested by a contracting officer pursuant to § 125.12(c). This exception applies to all provisions of §§ 121.404(a), (b), (c), and (d).


(d) *Eligibility for SBA programs.* A concern applying to be certified as a Participant in SBA's 8(a) Business Development program (under part 124, subpart A, of this chapter), as a HUBZone small business concern (under part 126 of this chapter), as a women-owned small business concern (under part 127 of this chapter), or as a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern (under part 128 of this chapter) must qualify as a small business as of the date of its application and, where applicable, the date the SBA program office requests a formal size determination in connection with a concern that otherwise appears eligible for program certification. For the 8(a) Business Development program, a concern must qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to its primary industry classification. For all other certification programs, a concern must qualify as small under the size standard corresponding to any NAICS code listed in its SAM profile. SBA will accept a concern's size representation in SAM, or successor system, unless there is evidence indicating that the concern is other than small. SBA will request a formal size determination pursuant to § 121.1001(b)(8) where any information it possesses calls into question the SAM size representation.


(e) *Certificates of competency.* The size status of an applicant for a Certificate of Competency (COC) relating to an unrestricted procurement is determined as of the date of the concern's application for the COC.


(f) *Nonmanufacturer rule, ostensible subcontractor rule, and joint venture agreements.* Compliance with the nonmanufacturer rule set forth in § 121.406(b)(1), the ostensible subcontractor rule set forth in § 121.103(h)(3), and the joint venture agreement requirements in §§ 124.513(c) and (d), §§ 126.616(c) and (d), §§ 127.506(c) and (d), and §§ 125.8(b) and (c) of this chapter, as appropriate, is determined as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding.


(g) *Subcontracting.* For subcontracting purposes, a concern must qualify as small as of the date that it certifies that it is small for the subcontract. The applicable size standard is that which is set forth in § 121.410 and which is in effect at the time the concern self-certifies that it is small for the subcontract. A prime contractor may rely on the self-certification of a subcontractor provided it does not have a reason to doubt the concern's self-certification.


(h) *Two-step procurements.* For purposes of architect-engineering, design/build or two-step sealed bidding procurements, a concern must qualify as small as of the date that it certifies that it is small as part of its initial bid or proposal (which may or may not include price).


(i) *Recertification. See* § 125.12 for information on recertification of size and status, and the effect of recertification. None of the exceptions set forth in paragraph (c)(4) of this section have an effect or serve as an exception to whether recertification is required under § 125.12.


(j) *Follow-on contracts.* A follow-on or renewal contract is a new contracting action. As such, size is determined as of the date the concern submits a written self-certification that it is small to the procuring agency as part of its initial offer including price for the follow-on or renewal contract.



---

[N] [69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 19813, Apr. 18, 2006; 71 FR 66443, Nov. 15, 2006; 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011; 76 FR 8252, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 42403, July 16, 2013; 78 FR 38817, June 28, 2013; 78 FR 61131, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48578, July 25, 2016; 83 FR 12851, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66180, Oct. 16, 2020; 85 FR 72917, Nov. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2959, Jan. 14, 2021; 86 FR 10732, Feb. 23, 2021; 86 FR 38538, July 22, 2021; 87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 26200, Apr. 27, 2023; 89 FR 102485, Dec. 17, 2024]




