# ยง 1293.22   Equitable housing finance plans and updates.

(a) *General.* Every three years each Enterprise shall adopt an Equitable Housing Finance Plan covering a three-year period. Each Enterprise may adopt a public annual plan update to that plan for the second and third years of the plan.


(b) *Contents of plan.* The plan shall include:


(1) Identification of barriers to sustainable housing opportunities faced by one or more underserved communities;


(2) Objectives that establish the overall direction and focus for the plan by defining the outcomes the plan seeks to accomplish, and that are logically tied to one or more identified barriers;


(3) Meaningful actions (actions) describing the high-impact activities the Enterprise intends to undertake to further the identified objectives that span one or more years (including extending beyond the period covered by the plan);


(4) Specific, measurable, and time-bound goals (goals) for each action; and


(5) Summaries of the Enterprise's public engagement in developing the plan.


(c) *Plan submission.* Each Enterprise shall submit its Plan to FHFA for review on or before September 30 of the year prior to the first year covered by the Plan.


(d) *Contents of annual plan update.* If an Enterprise chooses to submit an update, it shall include all changes the Enterprise is making to its plan, including any changes in identified barriers, objectives, meaningful actions, specific, measurable, and time-bound goals, and a summary of any additional public engagement. The update shall clearly describe the specific reason(s) for each significant change to the plan.


(e) *Annual update submission.* If an Enterprise chooses to submit an update, it shall submit its update for FHFA review on or before February 15 of the year covered by the update.


(f) *FHFA review.* FHFA shall review each plan and update and, prior to publication, may:


(1) Require removal of any confidential or proprietary information;


(2) Require removal of any content that is not consistent with this part, the Safety and Soundness Act, the authorizing statutes, or other applicable law; and


(3) Provide any feedback for consideration.


(g) *No prior approval of activities.* FHFA's review does not constitute a prior approval of a plan or update or any action described therein. All actions included in a plan are subject to all applicable FHFA and other requirements and authorities.


(h) *Disclaimer included in plan and annual update.* The plan and the annual update must include disclaimer language indicating the implementation of actions may be subject to change based on certain factors.


(i) *Plan and update publication.* Each Enterprise shall publish its plan on its website on January 15 of the first year covered by the plan and maintain it thereafter. Each Enterprise shall publish any update on its website on April 15 of the second and third year covered by the plan and maintain it thereafter. Each Enterprise shall ensure that plans and updates are accessible to persons with disabilities.


(j) *Additional guidance.* From time to time, FHFA may issue public guidance on plans and updates.






