# § 52.1850   Sizes of raisins with seeds—except layer or cluster.

The sizes of Raisins with Seeds—except for Layer or Cluster Raisins with Seeds, are not incorporated in the grades of the finished product since size, as such, is not a factor of quality for the purposes of these grades. The common size designations and measurement requirements applicable thereto include, but are not limited to, the following:


(a) *Seeded.* (1) *Select* size raisins means that not more than 70 percent, by weight, of the raisins will pass through round perforations 
34/64-inch in diameter; and not more than 5 percent, by weight, of the raisins will pass through round perforations 
22/64-inch in diameter.


(2) *Small* size raisins means that all of the raisins will pass through round perforations 
34/64-inch in diameter and not less than 90 percent, by weight, of all the raisins will pass through round perforations 
22/64-inch in diameter.


(3) *Mixed* size raisins means a mixture does not meet either the requirements for “select” size or for “small” size.


(b) *Unseeded.* (1) *4 Crown* means raisins that will not pass through round perforations 
42/64-inch in diameter.


(2) *3 Crown* means raisins that will pass through round perforations 
42/64-inch in diameter but will not pass through round perforations 
34/64-inch in diameter.


(3) *2 Crown* means raisins that will pass through round perforations 
34/64-inch in diameter but will not pass through round perforations 
24/64-inch in diameter.


(4) *1 Crown* means raisins that will pass through round perforations 
24/64-inch in diameter.



---

[N] [41 FR 34751, Aug. 17, 1976. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 81 FR 40780, June 23, 2016]




