# § 91.225   Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Out equipment and use.

(a) After January 1, 2020, unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft in Class A airspace unless the aircraft has equipment installed that—


(1) Meets the performance requirements in-


(i) TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b); or


(ii) TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c); and


(2) Meets the requirements of § 91.227.


(b) After January 1, 2020, except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section or unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft below 18,000 feet MSL and in airspace described in paragraph (d) of this section unless the aircraft has equipment installed that—


(1) Meets the performance requirements in—


(i) TSO-C166b and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B (as referenced in TSO-C166b);


(ii) TSO-C166c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1 (as referenced in TSO-C166c);


(iii) TSO-C154c and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B (as referenced in TSO-C154c); or


(iv) TSO-C154d and Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C (as referenced in TSO-C154d);


(2) Meets the requirements of § 91.227.


(c) Operators with equipment installed with an approved deviation under § 21.618 of this chapter also are in compliance with this section.


(d) After January 1, 2020, except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section or unless otherwise authorized by ATC, no person may operate an aircraft in the following airspace unless the aircraft has equipment installed that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) Class B and Class C airspace areas;


(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, within 30 nautical miles of an airport listed in appendix D, section 1 to this part from the surface upward to 10,000 feet MSL;


(3) Above the ceiling and within the lateral boundaries of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport upward to 10,000 feet MSL;


(4) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, Class E airspace within the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia at and above 10,000 feet MSL, excluding the airspace at and below 2,500 feet above the surface; and


(5) Class E airspace at and above 3,000 feet MSL over the Gulf of Mexico from the coastline of the United States out to 12 nautical miles.


(e) The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to any aircraft that was not originally certificated with an engine-driven electrical system, or that has not subsequently been certified with such a system installed, including balloons and gliders. These aircraft may conduct operations without ADS-B Out in the airspace specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. These aircraft may also conduct operations in the airspace specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section if those operations are conducted—


(1) Outside any Class B or Class C airspace area; and


(2) Below the altitude of the ceiling of a Class B or Class C airspace area designated for an airport, or 10,000 feet MSL, whichever is lower.


(f) Except as prohibited in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, each person operating an aircraft equipped with ADS-B Out must operate this equipment in the transmit mode at all times unless—


(1) Otherwise authorized by the FAA when the aircraft is performing a sensitive government mission for national defense, homeland security, intelligence or law enforcement purposes and transmitting would compromise the operations security of the mission or pose a safety risk to the aircraft, crew, or people and property in the air or on the ground; or


(2) Otherwise directed by ATC when transmitting would jeopardize the safe execution of air traffic control functions.


(g) Requests for ATC authorized deviations from the requirements of this section must be made to the ATC facility having jurisdiction over the concerned airspace within the time periods specified as follows:


(1) For operation of an aircraft with an inoperative ADS-B Out, to the airport of ultimate destination, including any intermediate stops, or to proceed to a place where suitable repairs can be made or both, the request may be made at any time.


(2) For operation of an aircraft that is not equipped with ADS-B Out, the request must be made at least 1 hour before the proposed operation.


(h) For unmanned aircraft:


(1) No person may operate an unmanned aircraft under a flight plan and in two way communication with ATC unless:


(i) That aircraft has equipment installed that meets the performance requirements in TSO-C166b (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260B, as referenced in TSO-C166b), TSO-C166c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-260C as modified by DO-260C—Change 1, as referenced in TSO-C166c), TSO-C154c (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282B, as referenced in TSO-C154c), or TSO-C154d (including Section 2 of RTCA DO-282C, as referenced in TSO-C154d); and


(ii) The equipment meets the requirements of § 91.227.


(2) No person may operate an unmanned aircraft under this part with Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast Out equipment in transmit mode unless:


(i) The operation is conducted under a flight plan and the person operating that unmanned aircraft maintains two-way communication with ATC; or


(ii) The use of ADS-B Out is otherwise authorized by the Administrator.


(i) The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference with the approval of the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This incorporation by reference (IBR) material is available for inspection at the FAA and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the FAA at: Office of Rulemaking (ARM-1), 800 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202-267-9677). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, visit *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html* or email *fr.inspection@nara.gov.* This material is also available from the following sources in this paragraph (i).


(1) U.S. Department of Transportation, Subsequent Distribution Office, DOT Warehouse M30, Ardmore East Business Center, 3341 Q 75th Avenue, Landover, MD 20785; telephone (301) 322-5377; website: *www.faa.gov/aircraft/air_cert/design_approvals/tso/* (select the link “Search Technical Standard Orders”).


(i) TSO-C166b, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), December 2, 2009.


(ii) TSO-C166c, Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Service-Broadcast (TIS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 1090 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.


(iii) TSO-C154c, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Frequency of 978 MHz, December 2, 2009.


(iv) TSO-C154d, Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) Equipment Operating on the Radio Frequency of 978 Megahertz (MHz), March 10, 2023.


(2) RTCA, Inc., 1150 18th St. NW, Suite 910, Washington, DC 20036; telephone (202) 833-9339; website: *www.rtca.org/products.*

(i) RTCA DO-260B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.


(ii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services-Broadcast (TIS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 17, 2020.


(iii) RTCA DO-260C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for 1090 MHz Extended Squitter Automatic Dependent Surveillance—Broadcast (ADS-B) and Traffic Information Services—Broadcast (TIS-B), Change 1, January 25, 2022.


(iv) RTCA DO-282B, Minimum Operational Performance Standards for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, December 2, 2009.


(v) RTCA DO-282C, Minimum Operational Performance Standards (MOPS) for Universal Access Transceiver (UAT) Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B), Section 2, Equipment Performance Requirements and Test Procedures, June 23, 2022.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2007-29305, 75 FR 30193, May 28, 2010; Amdt. 91-314-A, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010, as amended at Amdt. 91-316, 75 FR 37712, June 30, 2010; Amdt. 91-336, 80 FR 6900, Feb. 9, 2015; Amdt. 91-336A, 80 FR 11537, Mar. 4, 2015; Amdt. 91-355, 84 FR 34287, July 18, 2019; Amdt. No. 91-361, 86 FR 4513, Jan. 15, 2021; Docket No. FAA-2023-1836; Amdt. No. 91-371, 88 FR 71476, Oct. 17, 2023; Amdt. No. 91-371B, 89 FR 33224, Apr. 29, 2024]




