# § 99.400   Responsibilities.

(a) *Cognizant agency for audit responsibilities.* Recipients expending more than $25 million a year in Federal awards shall have a cognizant agency for audit. The designated cognizant agency for audit shall be the Federal awarding agency that provides the predominant amount of direct funding to a recipient unless OMB makes a specific cognizant agency for audit assignment. To provide for continuity of cognizance, the determination of the predominant amount of direct funding shall be based upon direct Federal awards expended in the recipient's fiscal years ending in 1995, 2000, 2005, and every fifth year thereafter. For example, audit cognizance for periods ending in 1997 through 2000 will be determined based on Federal awards expended in 1995. (However, for States and local governments that expend more than $25 million a year in Federal awards and have previously assigned cognizant agencies for audit, the requirements of this paragraph are not applicable until fiscal years beginning after June 30, 2000.) Notwithstanding the manner in which audit cognizance is determined, a Federal awarding agency with cognizance for an auditee may reassign cognizance to another Federal awarding agency which provides substantial direct funding and agrees to be the cognizant agency for audit. Within 30 days after any reassignment, both the old and the new cognizant agency for audit shall notify the auditee, and, if known, the auditor of the reassignment. The cognizant agency for audit shall:


(1) Provide technical audit advice and liaison to auditees and auditors.


(2) Consider auditee requests for extensions to the report submission due date required by § 99.320(a). The cognizant agency for audit may grant extensions for good cause.


(3) Obtain or conduct quality control reviews of selected audits made by non-Federal auditors, and provide the results, when appropriate, to other interested organizations.


(4) Promptly inform other affected Federal agencies and appropriate Federal law enforcement officials of any direct reporting by the auditee or its auditor of irregularities or illegal acts, as required by GAGAS or laws and regulations.


(5) Advise the auditor and, where appropriate, the auditee of any deficiencies found in the audits when the deficiencies require corrective action by the auditor. When advised of deficiencies, the auditee shall work with the auditor to take corrective action. If corrective action is not taken, the cognizant agency for audit shall notify the auditor, the auditee, and applicable Federal awarding agencies and pass-through entities of the facts and make recommendations for follow-up action. Major inadequacies or repetitive substandard performance by auditors shall be referred to appropriate State licensing agencies and professional bodies for disciplinary action.


(6) Coordinate, to the extent practical, audits or reviews made by or for Federal agencies that are in addition to the audits made pursuant to this part, so that the additional audits or reviews build upon audits performed in accordance with this part.


(7) Coordinate a management decision for audit findings that affect the Federal programs of more than one agency.


(8) Coordinate the audit work and reporting responsibilities among auditors to achieve the most cost-effective audit.


(9) For biennial audits permitted under § 99.220, consider auditee requests to qualify as a low-risk auditee under § 99.530(a).


(b) *Oversight agency for audit responsibilities.* An auditee which does not have a designated cognizant agency for audit will be under the general oversight of the Federal agency determined in accordance with § 99.105. The oversight agency for audit:


(1) Shall provide technical advice to auditees and auditors as requested.


(2) May assume all or some of the responsibilities normally performed by a cognizant agency for audit.


(c) *Federal awarding agency responsibilities.* The Federal awarding agency shall perform the following for the Federal awards it makes:


(1) Identify Federal awards made by informing each recipient of the CFDA title and number, award name and number, award year, and if the award is for R&D. When some of this information is not available, the Federal agency shall provide information necessary to clearly describe the Federal award.


(2) Advise recipients of requirements imposed on them by Federal laws, regulations, and the provisions of contracts or grant agreements.


(3) Ensure that audits are completed and reports are received in a timely manner and in accordance with the requirements of this part.


(4) Provide technical advice and counsel to auditees and auditors as requested.


(5) Issue a management decision on audit findings within six months after receipt of the audit report and ensure that the recipient takes appropriate and timely corrective action.


(6) Assign a person responsible for providing annual updates of the compliance supplement to OMB.


(d) Pass-through entity responsibilities. A pass-through entity shall perform the following for the Federal awards it makes:


(1) Identify Federal awards made by informing each subrecipient of CFDA title and number, award name and number, award year, if the award is R&D, and name of Federal agency. When some of this information is not available, the pass-through entity shall provide the best information available to describe the Federal award.


(2) Advise subrecipients of requirements imposed on them by Federal laws, regulations, and the provisions of contracts or grant agreements as well as any supplemental requirements imposed by the pass-through entity.


(3) Monitor the activities of subrecipients as necessary to ensure that Federal awards are used for authorized purposes in compliance with laws, regulations, and the provisions of contracts or grant agreements and that performance goals are achieved.


(4) Ensure that subrecipients expending $300,000 (or $500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 31, 2003) or more in Federal awards during the subrecipient's fiscal year have met the audit requirements of this part for that fiscal year.


(5) Issue a management decision on audit findings within six months after receipt of the subrecipient's audit report and ensure that the subrecipient takes appropriate and timely corrective action.


(6) Consider whether subrecipient audits necessitate adjustment of the pass-through entity's own records.


(7) Require each subrecipient to permit the pass-through entity and auditors to have access to the records and financial statements as necessary for the pass-through entity to comply with this part.



---

[N] [64 FR 14541, Mar. 25, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 37105, July 9, 2007]




