# ยง 1503.429   Filing of documents with the Enforcement Docket Clerk.

(a) *General.* This section governs filing of documents with the Enforcement Docket Clerk when required under this part.


(b) *Type of service.* A person must file a document with the Enforcement Docket Clerk by delivering two copies of the document as follows:


(1) By personal delivery or mail, to United States Coast Guard (USCG) ALJ Docketing Center, ATTN: Enforcement Docket Clerk, at the address specified in ยง 1503.413(c)(3).


(2) By electronic mail, to *ALJdocket@ALJBalt.USCG.MIL.* If this e-mail address changes, TSA will provide notice of the change by notice in the _Federal Register._

(3) By facsimile transmission, to 410-962-1746. If this number changes, TSA will provide notice of the change by notice in the _Federal Register._

(c) *Contents.* Unless otherwise specified in this part, each document must contain a short, plain statement of the facts supporting the person's position and a brief statement of the action requested in the document. Each document must be typewritten or legibly handwritten.


(d) *Date of filing.* The date of filing will be as follows:


(1) The date of personal delivery.


(2) If mailed, the mailing date stated on the certificate of service, the date shown on the postmark if there is no certificate of service, or other mailing date shown by other evidence if there is no certificate of service or postmark.


(3) If sent by electronic mail or facsimile transmission, the date of transmission.


(e) *Service of documents filed with the Enforcement Docket.* A person must serve a copy of any document filed with the Enforcement Docket on each party and the ALJ or the chief ALJ if no judge has been assigned to the proceeding at the time of filing. Service on a party's attorney of record or a party's designated representative is service on the party.




