# § 9003.5   Records of disbursements.

(a) *Burden of proof.* Each candidate shall have the burden of proving that disbursements made by the candidate or his or her authorized committee(s) or persons authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or authorized committee(s) are qualified campaign expenses as defined in 11 CFR 9002.11. The candidate and his or her authorized committee(s) shall obtain and furnish to the Commission on request any evidence regarding qualified campaign expenses made by the candidate, his or her authorized committees and agents or persons authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the candidate or committee(s) as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Records required.* (1) For disbursements in excess of $200 to a payee, the candidate shall present a canceled check negotiated by the payee or a record of electronic transfer to the payee and either:


(i) A receipted bill from the payee that states that purpose of the disbursement; or


(ii) If such a receipt is not available,


(A) One of the following records generated by the payee: a bill, invoice, or voucher that states the purpose of the disbursement; or


(B) Where the records specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section are not available, a voucher or contemporaneous memorandum from the candidate or the committee that states the purpose of the disbursement; or


(iii) Where the supporting record required in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section is not available, the candidate or committee may present collateral evidence to document the qualified campaign expense. Such collateral evidence may include, but is not limited to:


(A) Evidence demonstrating that the expenditure is part of an identifiable program or project which is otherwise sufficiently documented such as a disbursement which is one of a number of documented disbursements relating to a campaign mailing or to the operation of a campaign office; or


(B) Evidence that the disbursement is covered by a pre-established written campaign committee policy, such as a daily travel expense policy.


(iv) If the purpose of the disbursement is not stated in the accompanying records, it must be indicated on the canceled check negotiated by the payee or the record of electronic transfer to the payee.

(2) For all other disbursements, the candidate shall present:


(i) A record disclosing the full name and mailing address of the payee, the amount, date and purpose of the disbursement, if made from a petty cash fund; or


(ii) A canceled check negotiated by the payee or a record of electronic transfer to the payee that states the full name and mailing address of the payee, and the amount, date and purpose of the disbursement.


(3) For purposes of this section:


(i) *Payee* means the person who provides the goods or services to the candidate or committee in return for the disbursement; except that an individual will be considered a payee under this section if he or she receives $1000 or less advanced for travel and/or subsistence and if the individual is the recipient of the goods or services purchased.


(ii) *Purpose* means the full name and mailing address of the payee, the date and amount of the disbursement, and a brief description of the goods or services purchased. Examples of acceptable and unacceptable descriptions of goods and services purchased are listed at 11 CFR 104.3(b)(3)(i)(B).


(4) The records requirements of 11 CFR 102.9(b) shall also apply to disbursements.


(c) *Retention of records.* The candidate shall retain records with respect to each disbursement and receipt, including bank records, vouchers, worksheets, receipts, bills and accounts, journals, ledgers, fundraising solicitation material, accounting systems records, and any related materials documenting campaign receipts and disbursements, for a period of three years pursuant to 11 CFR 102.9(c), and shall present these records to the Commission on request.


(d) *List of capital and other assets*—(1) *Capital assets* The candidate or committee shall maintain a list of all capital assets whose purchase price exceeded $2000 when acquired by the campaign. The list shall include a brief description of each capital asset, the purchase price, the date it was acquired, the method of disposition and the amount received in disposition. For purposes of this section, “capital asset” shall be defined in accordance with 11 CFR 9004.9(d)(1).


(2) *Other assets.* The candidate or committee shall maintain a list of other assets acquired for use in fundraising or as collateral for campaign loans, if the aggregate value of such assets exceeds $5000. The list shall include a brief description of each such asset, the fair market value of each asset, the method of disposition and the amount received in disposition. The fair market value of other assets shall be determined in accordance with 11 CFR 9004.9(d)(2).



---

[N] [60 FR 31874, June 16, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 49362, Sept. 13, 1999; 68 FR 47415, Aug. 8, 2003; 79 FR 77851, Dec. 29, 2014; 89 FR 219, Jan. 2, 2024]




