# § 1214.40   Establishment and membership.

(a) *Establishment of the Christmas Tree Promotion Board.* There is hereby established a Christmas Tree Promotion Board, composed of no more than twelve (12) members as follows:


(1) Producer members from each of the following regions:


(i) Five producer members from Region #1—Western Region (states from the Pacific Ocean east to the Rocky Mountains): Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, Wyoming and all U.S. Territories located in the Pacific Ocean.


(ii) Two producer members from Region #2—Central Region (states east of the Rocky Mountains to the Great Lakes): Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, and Wisconsin.


(iii) Four producer members from Region #3—Eastern Region (states east of the Great Lakes): Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, New York, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, DC, West Virginia, and all U.S. Territories located in the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea, including but not limited to Puerto Rico.


(2) One Importer member.


(b) *Adjustment of membership.* At least once every five years upon implementation of the Order, but not more frequently than once every three years, the Board will review the geographic distribution of United States production of Christmas trees and the quantity and source of Christmas tree imports. The review will be conducted through State crop production figures and Board assessment records, including the amount of assessments collected from importers, or other government data. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that membership on the Board be altered to reflect any changes in geographic distribution of domestic Christmas tree production and the quantity of imports. *Provided,* that there shall be at least one importer member on the Board. Such adjustments shall not increase the total number of Board members. The adjustments to the Board membership would be submitted to the Secretary by Board recommendation and be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.




