# § 259.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Act* means Chapter 535 of Title 46 of the U.S. Code (46 U.S.C. 53501-53517), as may be amended from time to time.


*Agreement* means the contract to participate in the program between the approved CCF applicant (party) and the Secretary.


*Agreement vessel* means any eligible vessel or qualified vessel which is subject to an Agreement.


*Citizen of the United States* means any person who is a United States citizen and any corporation or partnership organized under the laws of any state which meets the requirements for documenting vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade.


*Commercial fishing* means fishing in which the fish harvested, either in whole or in part, are intended to enter commerce or enter commerce through sale, barter or trade.


*Depository* means the bank or brokerage account(s) listed in the Agreement where the CCF funds will be physically held.


*Eligible vessel* means—


(1) A vessel—


(i) Constructed in the United States (and, if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States), constructed outside of the United States but documented under the laws of the United States on April 15, 1970, or constructed outside the United States for use in the United States foreign trade pursuant to a contract made before April 15, 1970;


(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States if 5 net tons or greater; and


(iii) Operated in the foreign or domestic commerce of the United States or in the fisheries of the United States; and


(2) A commercial fishing vessel or vessel which will carry fishing parties for hire—


(i) Constructed in the United States and, if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States;


(ii) State registered if at least 2 net tons but fewer than 5 net tons or Documented under the laws of the United States if 5 net tons or greater;


(iii) Owned by a citizen of the United States;


(iv) Having its home port in the United States; and


(v) Operated in the commercial fisheries of the United States.


*Extension period* means the first day following the end of the Filing period and ending on the last day of the party's last filing extension.


*Filing period* means the first day following the end of the Tax Year and ending on the party's last day to file their tax return absent a filing extension.


*Limited Access System* means a system that limits participation in a fishery to those satisfying certain eligibility criteria or requirements contained in a fishery management plan or associated regulation.


*Qualified vessel* means—


(1) A vessel—


(i) Constructed in the United States (and, if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States), constructed outside of the United States but documented under the laws of the United States on April 15, 1970, or constructed outside the United States for use in the United States foreign trade pursuant to a contract made before April 15, 1970;


(ii) Documented under the laws of the United States if 5 net tons or greater; and


(iii) Agreed, between the Secretary and the person maintaining the capital construction fund established under 46 U.S.C. 53503, to be operated in the fisheries of the United States; and


(2) A commercial fishing vessel or vessel which will carry fishing parties for hire—


(i) Constructed in the United States and, if reconstructed, reconstructed in the United States;


(ii) State registered if at least 2 net tons but fewer than 5 net tons or Documented under the laws of the United States if 5 net tons or greater;


(iii) Owned by a citizen of the United States;


(iv) Having its home port in the United States; and


(v) Operated in the commercial fisheries of the United States; and


(3) Gear which is permanently fixed to the vessel. The expenditure for gear and certain nets which are not fixed to the vessel (pots, traps, longline, seine nets, gill set nets and gill drift nets) is excluded from the amount eligible for qualified withdrawals of CCF funds.


*Schedule A* means the section of the Agreement that designates the income producing vessel from which deposits are made to a designated account.


*Schedule B* means the section of the Agreement that designates the qualified project for which the CCF funds are to be expended.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce with respect to eligible or qualified vessels operated or to be operated in the fisheries of the United States.


*Tax due date* means the date the party's Federal tax return must be filed, including extensions, with the Internal Revenue Service.


*Tax year* means the period between January 1 and December 31 for Calendar year filers or the designated fiscal year for fiscal year filers.


*United States* means the United States of America and, for citizenship purposes, includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision of any of them.




