# ยง 1006.440   Remedies for noncompliance.

(a) *Remedies.* If HUD finds that the DHHL has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act or this part, the following actions may be taken by HUD: 


(1) Terminate payments to the DHHL; 


(2) Reduce payments to the DHHL by an amount equal to the amount not expended in accordance with the Act or this part; 


(3) Limit the availability of payments to programs, projects, or activities not affected by such failure to comply; or 


(4) Adjust, reduce or withdraw grant amounts or take other action as appropriate in accordance with reviews and audits. 


(b) *Exception.* Grant amounts already expended on affordable housing activities may not be recaptured or deducted from future assistance provided to the DHHL. 


(c) HUD may, upon due notice, suspend payments at any time after the issuance of the opportunity for hearing pending such hearing and final decision, to the extent HUD determines such action necessary to preclude the further expenditure of funds for activities affected by such failure to comply. 


(d) *Hearing requirement.* Before imposing remedies under this section, HUD will: 


(1) Take at least one of the corrective or remedial actions specified under ยง 1006.430 and permit the DHHL to make an appropriate and timely response; 


(2) Provide the DHHL with the opportunity for an informal consultation with HUD regarding the proposed action; and 


(3) Provide DHHL with reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing. 


(e) *Continuance of actions.* If HUD takes an action under paragraph (a) of this section, the action will continue until HUD determines that the failure of the DHHL to comply with the provision has been remedied and the DHHL is in compliance with the provision. 


(f) *Referral to the Attorney General.* In lieu of, or in addition to, any action HUD may take under paragraph (a) of this section, if HUD has reason to believe that the DHHL has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act or this part, HUD may refer the matter to the Attorney General of the United States with a recommendation that an appropriate civil action be instituted. Upon receiving a referral, the Attorney General may bring a civil action in any United States district court of appropriate jurisdiction for such relief as may be appropriate, including an action to recover the amount of the assistance furnished under the Act that was not expended in accordance with the Act or this part or for mandatory or injunctive relief. 




