# § 1203a.101   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Security area.* A physically defined area, established for the protection or security of facilities, property, or classfied/proprietary information and material in the possession of NASA or a NASA contractor located at a NASA Center or Component Facility, entry to which is subject to security measures, procedures, or controls. Security areas which may be established are:


(1) *Controlled area.* An area in which security measures are taken to safeguard and control access to property and hazardous materials or other sensitive material or to protect operations that are vital to the accomplishment of the mission assigned to a Center or Component Facility. The controlled area shall have a clearly defined perimeter, but permanent physical barriers are not required.


(2) *Limited area.* An area in which security measures are taken to safeguard or control access to classified material or unclassified property warranting special protection or property and hazardous materials or to protect operations that are vital to the accomplishment of the mission assigned to a Center or Component Facility. A Limited Area shall also have a clearly defined perimeter, but differs from a Controlled Area in that permanent physical barriers and access control devices, including walls and doors with locks or access devices, are emplaced to assist the occupants in keeping out unauthorized personnel. All facilities designated as NASA Critical Infrastructure or a key resource will be designated at a minimum as “Limited” areas.


(3) *Exclusion area.* An area that is a permanent facility dedicated solely to the safeguarding and use of Classified National Security Information. It is used when vaults are unsuitable or impractical and where entry to the area alone provides visible or audible access to classified material. To prevent unauthorized access to an exclusion area, visitors will be escorted or other internal restrictions implemented, as determined by the Center Security Office.


(b) *Temporary security area.* A designated interim security area, the need for which will not exceed 30 days from date of establishment. A temporary security area may also be established, pending approval of its establishment as a permanent security area.


(c) *Permanent security area.* A designated security area, the need for which will exceed 30 days from date of establishment.



---

[N] [38 FR 8056, Mar. 28, 1973, as amended at 78 FR 5123, Jan. 24, 2013]




