# § 438.104   Marketing activities.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section, the following terms have the indicated meanings:


*Cold-call marketing* means any unsolicited personal contact by the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity with a potential enrollee for the purpose of marketing as defined in this paragraph (a).


*Marketing* means any communication, from an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity to a Medicaid beneficiary who is not enrolled in that entity, that can reasonably be interpreted as intended to influence the beneficiary to enroll in that particular MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, PCCM's or PCCM entity's Medicaid product, or either to not enroll in or to disenroll from another MCO's, PIHP's, PAHP's, PCCM's or PCCM entity's Medicaid product. Marketing does not include communication to a Medicaid beneficiary from the issuer of a qualified health plan, as defined in 45 CFR 155.20, about the qualified health plan.


*Marketing materials* means materials that—


(i) Are produced in any medium, by or on behalf of an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity; and


(ii) Can reasonably be interpreted as intended to market the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity to potential enrollees.


*MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity* include any of the entity's employees, network providers, agents, or contractors.


*Private insurance* does not include a qualified health plan, as defined in 45 CFR 155.20.


(b) *Contract requirements.* Each contract with an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM, or PCCM entity must comply with the following requirements:


(1) Provide that the entity—


(i) Does not distribute any marketing materials without first obtaining State approval.


(ii) Distributes the materials to its entire service area as indicated in the contract.


(iii) Complies with the information requirements of § 438.10 to ensure that, before enrolling, the beneficiary receives, from the entity or the State, the accurate oral and written information he or she needs to make an informed decision on whether to enroll.


(iv) Does not seek to influence enrollment in conjunction with the sale or offering of any private insurance.


(v) Does not, directly or indirectly, engage in door-to-door, telephone, email, texting, or other cold-call marketing activities.


(2) Specify the methods by which the entity ensures the State agency that marketing, including plans and materials, is accurate and does not mislead, confuse, or defraud the beneficiaries or the State agency. Statements that will be considered inaccurate, false, or misleading include, but are not limited to, any assertion or statement (whether written or oral) that—


(i) The beneficiary must enroll in the MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity to obtain benefits or to not lose benefits; or


(ii) The MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity is endorsed by CMS, the Federal or State government, or similar entity.


(c) *State agency review.* In reviewing the marketing materials submitted by the entity, the State must consult with the Medical Care Advisory Committee established under § 431.12 of this chapter or an advisory committee with similar membership.




