# § 410.62   Outpatient speech-language pathology services: Conditions and exclusions.

(a) *Basic rule.* Except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, Medicare Part B pays for outpatient speech-language pathology services only if they are furnished by an individual who meets the qualifications for a speech-language pathologist in § 484.115 of this chapter and only under the following conditions: 


(1) They are furnished to a beneficiary while he or she is under the care of a physician who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy.


(2) They are furnished under a written plan of treatment that meets the requirements of § 410.61.


(3) They are furnished by one of the following:


(i) A provider as defined in § 489.2 of this chapter, or by others under arrangements with, and under the supervision of, a provider.


(ii) A speech-language pathologist in private practice as described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(iii) Incident to the service of, a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner when those professionals may perform speech-language pathology services under State law. When a speech-language pathology service is provided incident to the services of a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner, by anyone other than a physician, physician assistant, clinical nurse specialist, or nurse practitioner, the service and the person who furnishes the service must meet the standards and conditions that apply to speech-language pathology and speech-language pathologists, except that a license to practice speech-language pathology services in the State is not required.


(b) *Condition for coverage of outpatient speech-language pathology services furnished to certain inpatients of a hospital or a CAH or SNF.* Medicare Part B pays for outpatient speech-language pathology services furnished to an inpatient of a hospital, CAH, or SNF who requires the services but has exhausted or is otherwise ineligible for benefit days under Medicare Part A.


(c) *Special provisions for services furnished by speech-language pathologists in private practice*—(1) *Basic qualifications.* In order to qualify under Medicare as a supplier of outpatient speech-language pathology services, each individual speech-language pathologist in private practice must meet the following requirements:


(i) Be legally authorized (if applicable, licensed, certified, or registered) to engage in the private practice of speech-language pathology by the State in which he or she practices, and practice only within the scope of his or her license and/or certification.


(ii) Engage in the private practice of speech-language pathology on a regular basis as an individual, in one of the following practice types: a solo practice, partnership, or group practice; or as an employee of one of these.


(iii) Bill Medicare only for services furnished in one of the following:


(A) A speech-language pathologist's private practice office space that meets all of the following:


(*1*) The location(s) where the practice is operated, in the State(s) where the therapist (and practice, if applicable) is legally authorized to furnish services and during the hours that the therapist engages in practice at that location.


(*2*) The space must be owned, leased, or rented by the practice, and used for the exclusive purpose of operating the practice.


(B) A patient's home not including any institution that is a hospital, a CAH, or a SNF.


(iv) Treat individuals who are patients of the practice and for whom the practice collects fees for the services furnished.


(d) *Excluded services.* No service is included as an outpatient speech-language pathology service if it is not included as an inpatient hospital service if furnished to a hospital or CAH inpatient. 



---

[N] [51 FR 41339, Nov. 14, 1986, as amended at 53 FR 6648, Mar. 2, 1988; 56 FR 8852, Mar. 1, 1991; 56 FR 23022, May 20, 1991; 58 FR 30668, May 26, 1993; 63 FR 58907, Nov. 2, 1998; 69 FR 66422, Nov. 15, 2004; 73 FR 69933, Nov. 19, 2008; 76 FR 73470, Nov. 28, 2011; 77 FR 69363, Nov. 16, 2012; 79 FR 68002, Nov. 13, 2014; 82 FR 4578, Jan. 13, 2017; 83 FR 60073, Nov. 23, 2018]




