# § 151.50-21   Sulfuric acid.

(a) *How sulfuric acid may be carried.* (1) Sulfuric acid of concentration of 77.5 percent (1.7019 specific gravity) (59.8° Baumé) or greater concentrations with or without an inhibitor, provided the corrosive effect on steel measured at 100 °F is not greater than that of 66° Baumé commercial sulfuric acid, may be transported in unlined gravity type cargo tanks or unlined pressure vessel type cargo tanks. 


(2) Sulfuric acid of concentration of 65.25 percent (1.559 specific gravity) (52° Baumé) or greater concentrations, provided the corrosive effect on steel measured at 100 °F is not greater than that of 52° Baumé commercial sulfuric acid, may be transported in unlined pressure vessel type cargo tanks independent of the vessel's structure. 


(3) Sulfuric acid of concentration not to exceed 65.25 percent (1.559 specific gravity) (52° Baumé) may be transported in gravity type cargo tanks or pressure-vessel type cargo tanks which are lined with lead or other equally suitable acid-resistant material acceptable to the Commandant. 


(4) Sulfuric acid of concentration not to exceed 51 percent (1.408 specific gravity) (42° Baumé) and spent sulfuric acid resulting from the use of sulfuric acid in industrial processes may be transported in gravity type cargo tanks which are lined with rubber or other equally suitable acid-resistant material acceptable to the Commandant. See § 151.15-3(f)(2). 


(5) Spent or sludge sulfuric acid resulting from the use of sulfuric acid in industrial processes may be transported in unlined gravity type cargo tanks or unlined pressure vessel type cargo tanks, provided the corrosive effect on steel is not greater than that of commercial sulfuric acid as prescribed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(b) Heating coils will be the only acceptable means of liquefying frozen or congealed sulfuric acid. 


(c) During cargo transfer, a water hose shall be connected to a water supply ready for immediate use and any leakage or spillage of acid shall be immediately washed down. This requirement can be met by facilities provided from shore. 


(d) The requirements of § 151.50-20 are also applicable to the shipment of sulfuric acid. 




