# § 1281.3   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Architectural and design standards.* This term refers to the document cited in § 1281.4.


*Archival functions.* The term means arranging, describing, reviewing, preserving, reproducing, restoring, exhibiting, and making available Presidential and other records and historical materials in the care and custody of the Presidential libraries, and includes the salaries and expenses of NARA personnel performing those functions.


*Endowment library.* This term means a Presidential library that is subject to the endowment requirements of 44 U.S.C. 2112(g). The term includes the existing libraries of presidents who took the oath of office as President for the first time on or after January 20, 1985, the proposed library of President George W. Bush, and the libraries of presidents who take the oath of office as President for the first time on or after July 1, 2002.


*Equipment.* As used in this part, the term means operating equipment that must be furnished with the new library and included in the calculation of the required endowment. Operating equipment is fundamental to the operation of the library and is normally built into the facility or permanently mounted to the structure.


*Existing library.* This term means a Presidential library that has been accepted by the Archivist under 44 U.S.C. 2112(a) and established as part of the system of Presidential libraries managed by NARA.


*Facility operations.* This term means those activities, including administrative services, involved with maintaining, operating, protecting, and improving a Presidential library.


*Foundation.* This term means a private organization organized under state law to construct a new Presidential library. The term usually refers to nonprofit charitable organizations that meet the requirements of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 CFR 501(c)(3)). The term specifically includes “foundation” and “institute,” as those terms are used in 44 U.S.C. 2112(a)(1)(B).


*Historical materials.* The term “historical materials” has the meaning set forth at 44 U.S.C. 2101.


*New library.* This term means a Presidential library for a President who took the oath of office as President for the first time on or after January 20, 1985, that has not been accepted by the Archivist under 44 U.S.C. 2112(a). Presidential libraries that have been accepted by the Archivist and established as part of the system of Presidential libraries that are managed by NARA are “existing libraries.”


*Physical or material change or addition.* This term means any addition of square footage, as defined by the BOMA Standard (incorporated by reference in § 1281.2) or any physical or material change to the existing structure of an existing library that results in a significant increase in the cost of facility operations.


*Presidential library.* This term means a Presidential archival depository as defined in 44 U.S.C. 2101.


*Presidential records.* The term has the meaning set forth at 44 U.S.C. 2201.




