# ยง 684.460   What performance indicators are applicable to the supplemental youth services program?

(a) Pursuant to WIOA secs. 166(e)(5) and 166(h), the performance indicators at WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(ii) apply to the INA youth program, which must include:


(1) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the second quarter after exit from the program;


(2) The percentage of program participants who are in education or training activities, or in unsubsidized employment, during the fourth quarter after exit from the program;


(3) The median earnings of program participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program;


(4) The percentage of program participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or its recognized equivalent (subject to WIOA sec. 116(b)(2)(A)(iii)) during participation in or within 1 year after exit from the program;


(5) The percentage of program participants who, during a program year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains toward such a credential or employment; and


(6) The percentage of participants in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the program who were employed by the same employer in the second and fourth quarters after exit.




(b) In addition to the performance indicators in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Native American Employment and Training Council, must develop a set of performance indicators and standards that is in addition to the primary indicators of performance that are applicable to the INA program under this section.





---

[N] [81 FR 56428, Aug. 19, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 13613, Feb. 23, 2024]




