# § 1.21   Miscellaneous fees and charges.

The Patent and Trademark Office has established the following fees for the services indicated:


(a) Registration of attorneys and agents:


(1) For admission to examination for registration to practice:


(i) Application Fee (non-refundable): $118.00.












(ii) Registration examination fee


(A) For test administration by commercial entity: $226.00.








(B) [Reserved]


(iii) For USPTO-administered review of registration examination: $505.00.


(iv) Request for extension of time in which to schedule examination for registration to practice (non-refundable): $124.00.












(2) On registration to practice or grant of limited recognition:


(i) On registration to practice under § 11.6 of this chapter: $226.00.


(ii) On grant of limited recognition under § 11.9(b) of this chapter: $226.00.














(3) [Reserved]


(4) For certificate of good standing as an attorney or agent:


(i) Standard: $43.00.


(ii) Suitable for framing: $54.00.






(5) For review of decision:


(i) By the Director of Enrollment and Discipline under § 11.2(c) of this chapter: $452.00.


(ii) Of the Director of Enrollment and Discipline under § 11.2(d) of this chapter: $452.00.








(6) Recovery/Retrieval of OED Information System Customer Interface account by USPTO:


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) For USPTO-assisted change of address: $75.00.




(7)-(8) [Reserved]


(9) Administrative reinstatement fees:


(i) Delinquency fee: $54.00.


(ii) Administrative reinstatement fee: $226.00.


(10) On application by a person for recognition or registration after disbarment or suspension on ethical grounds, or resignation pending disciplinary proceedings in any other jurisdiction; on application by a person for recognition or registration who is asserting rehabilitation from prior conduct that resulted in an adverse decision in the Office regarding the person's moral character; on application by a person for recognition or registration after being convicted of a felony or crime involving moral turpitude or breach of fiduciary duty; and on petition for reinstatement by a person excluded or suspended on ethical grounds, or excluded on consent from practice before the Office: $1,806.00.


(b) Deposit accounts:


(1) [Reserved]


(2) Service charge for each month when the balance at the end of the month is below $1,000: $25.00


(3) Service charge for each month when the balance at the end of the month is below $300 for restricted subscription deposit accounts used exclusively for subscription order of patent copies as issued: $25.00


(c)-(d) [Reserved]


(e) International type search reports: For preparing an international type search report of an international type search made at the time of the first action on the merits in a national patent application: $43.00


(f)-(g) [Reserved]


(h) For recording each assignment, agreement, or other paper relating to the property in a patent or application, per property:


(1) If submitted electronically, on or after January 1, 2014: $0.00


(2) If not submitted electronically: $54.00


(i) Publication in Official Gazette: For publication in the Official Gazette of a notice of the availability of an application or a patent for licensing or sale: Each application or patent: $27.00.


(j) [Reserved]


(k) For items and services that the director finds may be supplied, for which fees are not specified by statute or by this part, such charges as may be determined by the director with respect to each such item or service: Actual cost


(l) [Reserved]


(m) For processing each payment refused (including a check returned “unpaid”) or charged back by a financial institution: $50.00


(n) For handling an application in which proceedings are terminated pursuant to § 1.53(e): $151.00.




(o) The receipt of a very lengthy sequence listing (mega-sequence listing) in an application under 35 U.S.C. 111 or 371 is subject to the following fee:


(1) First receipt by the Office of a sequence listing in electronic form ranging in size from 300MB to 800MB (without file compression):


(2) First receipt by the Office of a sequence listing in electronic form exceeding 800MB in size (without file compression):


(p) Additional Fee for Overnight Delivery: $43.00.


(q) Additional fee for expedited service: $183.00.





---

[N] [82 FR 52815, Nov. 14, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 46989, Aug. 3, 2020, 85 FR 58283, Sept. 18, 2020; 86 FR 28451, May 26, 2021; 88 FR 17157, Mar. 22, 2023; 88 FR 45086, July 14, 2023; 89 FR 92007, Nov. 20, 2024]










