# § 165.1315   Safety Zone; Annual Fireworks Displays within the Sector Columbia River Captain of the Port Zone.

(a) *Safety zones.* The following areas are designated safety zones: Waters of the Columbia River and its tributaries, waters of the Siuslaw River, Yaquina River, Umpqua River, Clatskanie River, Tillamook Bay and waters of the Washington and Oregon Coasts, within a 450-yard radius of the launch site at the approximate locations listed in the following table:


(b) *Special requirements.* Fireworks barges or launch sites on land used in locations stated in this section must display a sign. The sign will be affixed to the port and starboard side of the barge or mounted on a post 3 feet above ground level when on land and in close proximity to the shoreline facing the water labeled “FIREWORKS—DANGER—STAY AWAY.” This will provide on-scene notice that the safety zone is, or will, be enforced on that day. This notice will consist of a diamond shaped sign, 4-foot by 4-foot, with a 3-inch orange retro-reflective border. The word “DANGER” will be 10-inch black block letters centered on the sign with the words “FIREWORKS” and “STAY AWAY” in 6-inch black block letters placed above and below the word “DANGER” respectively on a white background. An on-scene patrol vessel may enforce these safety zones at least 1 hour prior to the start and 1 hour after the conclusion of the fireworks display.


(c) *Notice of enforcement.* These safety zones will be activated and thus subject to enforcement, under the following conditions: The Coast Guard must receive an Application for Marine Event for each fireworks display; and, the Captain of the Port will cause notice of the enforcement of these safety zones to be made by all appropriate means to provide notice to the affected segments of the public as practicable, in accordance with § 165.7(a). The Captain of the Port will issue a Local Notice to Mariners notifying the public of activation and suspension of enforcement of these safety zones. Additionally, an on-scene Patrol Commander may be appointed to enforce the safety zones by limiting the transit of non-participating vessels in the designated areas described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Enforcement period*s. This section will be enforced at least 1 hour before and 1 hour after the duration of the event each day a barge or launch site with a “FIREWORKS—DANGER—STAY AWAY” sign is located within any of the safety zones identified in paragraph (a) of this section and meets the criteria established in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(e) *Regulations.* In accordance with the general regulations in subpart C of this part no person may enter or remain in the safety zone created in this section or bring, cause to be brought, or allow to remain in the safety zone created in this section any vehicle, vessel, or object unless authorized by the Captain of the Port or his designated representative. The Captain of the Port may be assisted by other Federal, State, or local agencies with the enforcement of the safety zone.


(f) *Authorization.* All vessel operators who desire to enter the safety zone must obtain permission from the Captain of the Port or Designated Representative by contacting either the on-scene patrol craft on VHF Ch 13 or Ch 16 or the Coast Guard Sector Columbia River Command Center via telephone at (503) 861-6211.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0149, 82 FR 28558, June 23, 2017, as amended by USCG-2018-0868, 83 FR 62261, Dec. 3, 2018; USCG-2024-0253, 89 FR 47466, June 3, 2024]






