# § 93.403   Program income and repayments.

(a) *Program income.* Program income must be treated as HTF funds and must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part. Program income must be deposited in the grantee's HTF local account unless the grantee permits a subgrantee to retain the program income for additional HTF projects pursuant to the written agreement required by § 93.404(b). The grantee must report the program income received as well as the use of the program income in the disbursement and information system that HUD designates for the HTF.


(b) *Repayments.* (1) Any HTF funds invested in housing that does not meet the affordability requirements for the period specified in § 93.302 or § 93.304, as applicable, must be repaid by the grantee in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(2) Any HTF funds invested in a project that is terminated before completion, either voluntarily or otherwise, must be repaid by the grantee, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(3) HUD will instruct the grantee to either repay the funds to the HTF Treasury account or the local account. Generally, if the HTF funds were disbursed from the grantee's HTF Treasury account, they must be repaid to the HTF Treasury account. If the HTF funds were disbursed from the grantee's HTF local account, they must be repaid to the local account.


(4) If the grantee is no longer a grantee in the HTF program when the repayment is made, the funds must be remitted to HUD and reallocated in accordance with § 93.54 of this part.




