# ยง 1544.105   Approval and amendments.

(a) *Initial approval of security program.* Unless otherwise authorized by TSA, each aircraft operator required to have a security program under this part must submit its proposed security program to the designated official for approval at least 90 days before the intended date of operations. The proposed security program must meet the requirements applicable to its operation as described in ยง 1544.101. Such requests will be processed as follows:


(1) The designated official, within 30 days after receiving the proposed aircraft operator security program, will either approve the program or give the aircraft operator written notice to modify the program to comply with the applicable requirements of this part.


(2) The aircraft operator may either submit a modified security program to the designated official for approval, or petition the Administrator to reconsider the notice to modify within 30 days of receiving a notice to modify. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.


(3) The designated official, upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, either amends or withdraws the notice, or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the notice to modify, or by affirming the notice to modify.


(b) *Amendment requested by an aircraft operator.* An aircraft operator may submit a request to TSA to amend its security program as follows:


(1) The request for an amendment must be filed with the designated official at least 45 days before the date it proposes for the amendment to become effective, unless a shorter period is allowed by the designated official.


(2) Within 30 days after receiving a proposed amendment, the designated official, in writing, either approves or denies the request to amend.


(3) An amendment to an aircraft operator security program may be approved if the designated official determines that safety and the public interest will allow it, and the proposed amendment provides the level of security required under this part.


(4) Within 30 days after receiving a denial, the aircraft operator may petition the Administrator to reconsider the denial. A petition for reconsideration must be filed with the designated official.


(5) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either approves the request to amend or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to approve the amendment, or affirming the denial.


(6) Any aircraft operator may submit a group proposal for an amendment that is on behalf of it and other aircraft operators that co-sign the proposal.


(c) *Amendment by TSA.* If safety and the public interest require an amendment, TSA may amend a security program as follows:


(1) The designated official notifies the aircraft operator, in writing, of the proposed amendment, fixing a period of not less than 30 days within which the aircraft operator may submit written information, views, and arguments on the amendment.


(2) After considering all relevant material, the designated official notifies the aircraft operator of any amendment adopted or rescinds the notice. If the amendment is adopted, it becomes effective not less than 30 days after the aircraft operator receives the notice of amendment, unless the aircraft operator petitions the Administrator to reconsider no later than 15 days before the effective date of the amendment. The aircraft operator must send the petition for reconsideration to the designated official. A timely petition for reconsideration stays the effective date of the amendment.


(3) Upon receipt of a petition for reconsideration, the designated official either amends or withdraws the notice or transmits the petition, together with any pertinent information, to the Administrator for reconsideration. The Administrator disposes of the petition within 30 days of receipt by either directing the designated official to withdraw or amend the amendment, or by affirming the amendment.


(d) *Emergency amendments.* If the designated official finds that there is an emergency requiring immediate action with respect to safety in air transportation or in air commerce that makes procedures in this section contrary to the public interest, the designated official may issue an amendment, without the prior notice and comment procedures in paragraph (c) of this section, effective without stay on the date the aircraft operator receives notice of it. In such a case, the designated official will incorporate in the notice a brief statement of the reasons and findings for the amendment to be adopted. The aircraft operator may file a petition for reconsideration under paragraph (c) of this section; however, this does not stay the effective date of the emergency amendment.



---

[N] [67 FR 8353, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 76 FR 51867, Aug. 18, 2011]




