# ยง 211.42   Definitions.

For the purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Administrative cost* means those costs which are specifically identified with negotiating, processing and consummating the loan. These costs include, but are not necessarily limited to: legal fees; costs of preparing and processing loan documents; and an allocable portion of salaries and related benefits of employees engaged in the international lending function. No portion of supervisory and administrative expenses or other indirect expenses such as occupancy and other similar overhead costs shall be included.


(b) *Banking institution* means a State member bank; bank holding company; Edge Corporation and Agreement Corporation engaged in banking. Banking institution does not include a foreign banking organization as defined in ยง 211.21(o).


(c) *Federal banking agencies* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.


(d) *International assets* means those assets required to be included in banking institutions' *Country Exposure Report* forms (FFIEC No. 009).


(e) *International loan* means a loan as defined in the instructions to the *Report of Condition and Income* for the respective banking institution (FFIEC Nos. 031 and 041) and made to a foreign government, or to an individual, a corporation, or other entity not a citizen of, resident in, or organized or incorporated in the United States.


(f) *Restructured international loan* means a loan that meets the following criteria:


(1) The borrower is unable to service the existing loan according to its terms and is a resident of a foreign country in which there is a generalized inability of public and private sector obligors to meet their external debt obligations on a timely basis because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country; and


(2) The terms of the existing loan are amended to reduce stated interest or extend the schedule of payments; or


(3) A new loan is made to, or for the benefit of, the borrower, enabling the borrower to service or refinance the existing debt.


(g) *Transfer risk* means the possibility that an asset cannot be serviced in the currency of payment because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country of the obligor.



---

[N] [Reg. K, 68 FR 1159, Jan. 9, 2003]




