# § 637.32   What selection criteria does the Secretary use?

The Secretary evaluates applications on the basis of the criteria in this section.


(a) *Plan of operation.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the plan of operation for the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) Higher quality in the design of the project;


(ii) An effective plan of management that insures proper and efficient administration of the project;


(iii) A clear description of how the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program;


(iv) The way the applicant plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; and


(v) Methods of coordination. (See 34 CFR 75.580)


(b) *Quality of key personnel.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used);


(ii) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project;


(iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section plans to commit to the project.


(iv) The extent to which the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory emloyment practices, encourages applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that have been traditionally underrepresented, such as members of a racial or ethnic minority group, women, handicapped persons, and the elderly.


(3) To determine the qualifications of a person, the Secretary considers evidence of past experience and training, in fields related to the objectives of the project, as well as other information that the applicant provides.


(c) *Budget and cost effectiveness.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the project has an adequate budget and is cost effective.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The budget for the project is adequate to support the project activities; and


(ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objective of the project.


(d) *Evaluation plan.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the evaluation plan for the project. (See 34 CFR 75.590)


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows methods of evaluation that are appropriate for the project and, to the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable.


(e) *Adequacy of resources.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the applicant plans to devote adequate resources to the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The facilities that the applicant plans to use are adequate; and


(ii) The equipment and supplies that the applicant plans to use are adequate.


(f) *Identification of need for the project.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the identification of need for the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) An adequate needs assessment;


(ii) An identification of specific needs in science; and


(iii) Involvement of appropriate individuals, especially science faculty, in identifying the institutional needs.


(g) *Potential institutional impact of the project.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the proposed project gives evidence of potential for enhancing the institution's capacity for improving and maintaining quality science education for its minority students, particularly minority women.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) For an institutional or cooperative project, the extent to which both the established science education program(s) and the proposed project will expand or strengthen the established program(s) in relation to the identified needs; or


(ii) For a design project, the extent to which realistic long-range science education improvement plans will be developed with the technical assistance provided under the project; or


(iii) For a special project, the extent to which it addresses needs that have not been adequately addressed by an existing institutional science program or takes a particularly new and exemplary approach that has not been taken by any existing institutional science program.


(h) *Institutional commitment to the project.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the applicant plans to continue the project activities when funding ceases.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) Adequate institutional commitment to absorb any after-the-grant burden initiated by the project;


(ii) Adequate plans for continuation of project activities when funding ceases;


(iii) Clear evidence of past institutional commitment to the provision of quality science programs for its minority students; and


(iv) A local review statement signed by the chief executive officer of the institution endorsing the project and indicating how the project will accelerate the attainment of the institutional goals in science.


(i) *Expected outcomes.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which minority students, particularly minority women, will benefit from the project.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) Expected outcomes likely to result in the accomplishment of the program goal;


(ii) Educational value for science students; and


(iii) Possibility of long-term benefits to minority students, faculty, or the institution.


(j) *Scientific and educational value of the proposed project.* (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows its potential for contributions to science education.


(2) The Secretary looks for information that shows—


(i) The relationship of the proposed project to the present state of science education;


(ii) The use or development of effective techniques and approaches in science education; and


(iii) Potential use of some aspects of the project at other institutions.



---

[N] [46 FR 51204, Oct. 16, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 49146, Dec. 6, 1988; 57 FR 54302, Nov. 18, 1992; 70 FR 13374, Mar. 21, 2005]




