# § 15.256   Operation of level probing radars within the bands 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz.

(a) Operation under this section is limited to level probing radar (LPR) devices.


(b) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section shall utilize a dedicated or integrated transmit antenna, and the system shall be installed and maintained to ensure a vertically downward orientation of the transmit antenna's main beam.


(c) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section shall be installed only at fixed locations. The LPR device shall not operate while being moved, or while inside a moving container.


(d) Hand-held applications are prohibited.


(e) Marketing to residential consumers is prohibited.


(f) The fundamental bandwidth of an LPR emission is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below and one above the center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated by at least 10 dB relative to the maximum transmitter output power when measured in an equivalent resolution bandwidth.


(1) The minimum fundamental emission bandwidth shall be 50 MHz for LPR operation under the provisions of this section.


(2) LPR devices operating under this section must confine their fundamental emission bandwidth within the 5.925-7.250 GHz, 24.05-29.00 GHz, and 75-85 GHz bands under all conditions of operation.


(g) *Fundamental emissions limits.* (1) All emission limits provided in this section are expressed in terms of Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP).


(2) The EIRP level is to be determined from the maximum measured power within a specified bandwidth.


(i) The EIRP in 1 MHz is computed from the maximum power level measured within any 1-MHz bandwidth using a power averaging detector;


(ii) The EIRP in 50 MHz is computed from the maximum power level measured with a peak detector in a 50-MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the maximum average power level is realized and this 50 MHz bandwidth must be contained within the authorized operating bandwidth. For a RBW less than 50 MHz, the peak EIRP limit (in dBm) is reduced by 20 log(RBW/50) dB where RBW is the resolution bandwidth in megahertz. The RBW shall not be lower than 1 MHz or greater than 50 MHz. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than the RBW. If the RBW is greater than 3 MHz, the application for certification filed shall contain a detailed description of the test procedure, calibration of the test setup, and the instrumentation employed in the testing.


(3) The EIRP limits for LPR operations in the bands authorized by this rule section are provided in Table 1. The emission limits in Table 1 are based on boresight measurements (*i.e.,* measurements performed within the main beam of an LPR antenna).


(h) *Unwanted emissions limits.* Unwanted emissions from LPR devices shall not exceed the general emission limit in § 15.209 of this chapter.


(i) *Antenna beamwidth.* (A) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section within the 5.925-7.250 GHz and 24.05-29.00 GHz bands must use an antenna with a −3 dB beamwidth no greater than 12 degrees.


(B) LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section within the 75-85 GHz band must use an antenna with a −3 dB beamwidth no greater than 8 degrees.


(j) *Antenna side lobe gain.* LPR devices operating under the provisions of this section must limit the side lobe antenna gain relative to the main beam gain for off-axis angles from the main beam of greater than 60 degrees to the levels provided in Table 2.


(k) Emissions from digital circuitry used to enable the operation of the transmitter may comply with the limits in § 15.209 of this chapter provided it can be clearly demonstrated that those emissions are due solely to emissions from digital circuitry contained within the transmitter and the emissions are not intended to be radiated from the transmitter's antenna. Emissions from associated digital devices, as defined in § 15.3(k) of this part, e.g., emissions from digital circuitry used to control additional functions or capabilities other than the operation of the transmitter, are subject to the limits contained in subpart B, part 15 of this chapter. Emissions from these digital circuits shall not be employed in determining the −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission or the frequency at which the highest emission level occurs.


(l) *Measurement procedures.* (1) Radiated measurements of the fundamental emission bandwidth and power shall be made with maximum main-beam coupling between the LPR and test antennas (boresight).


(2) Measurements of the unwanted emissions radiating from an LPR shall be made utilizing elevation and azimuth scans to determine the location at which the emissions are maximized.


(3) All emissions at and below 1,000 MHz except 9-90 kHz and 110-490 kHz bands are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector.


(4) The fundamental emission bandwidth measurement shall be made using a peak detector with a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz and a video bandwidth of at least 3 MHz.


(5) The provisions in § 15.35(b) and (c) of this part that require emissions to be averaged over a 100 millisecond period and that limits the peak power to 20 dB above the average limit do not apply to devices operating under paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section.


(6) Compliance measurements for minimum emission bandwidth of frequency-agile LPR devices shall be performed with any related frequency sweep, step, or hop function activated.


(7) Compliance measurements shall be made in accordance with the specific procedures published or otherwise authorized by the Commission.



---

[N] [79 FR 12678, Mar. 6, 2014]




