# § 180.490   Imazapic; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide imazapic, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities listed in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified is to be determined by measuring the sum of imazapic (2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid) and its metabolites (±)-2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-hydroxymethyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid and (±)-2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-(β-D-glucopyranosyloxy)methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of imazapic.


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide imazapic, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities listed in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified is to be determined by measuring the sum of imazapic (2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid) and its metabolite (±)-2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-hydroxymethyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of imazapic.


(3) Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide imazapic, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities listed in the following table. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified is to be determined by measuring only imazapic (2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1*H*-imidazol-2-yl]-5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid).


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved] 


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* [Reserved]


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [64 FR 54224, Oct. 6, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 64774, Dec. 14, 2001; 66 FR 66332, Dec. 26, 2001; 78 FR 49932, Aug. 16, 2013; 79 FR 18818, Apr. 4, 2014; 79 FR 32170, June 4, 2014; 88 FR 52042, Aug. 7, 2023]




