# § 416.1337   Exceptions to the continuation of previously established payment level.

(a) *Multiple payments exception.* (1) Where it is determined that a recipient is receiving two or more regular monthly payments in one month, the Social Security Administration shall determine the correct payment amount and, as soon as practicable thereafter, send the recipient an advance written notice of intent to make subsequent payment in that amount. Payment for the following month shall be made in the correct amount, except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(2) The advance notice shall explain:


(i) That multiple payments were made in the one or more months identified in the notice;


(ii) The correct amount of monthly benefits that the recipient is eligible to receive; and


(iii) The recipient's appeal rights.


(3) If an appeal is filed within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of intent, the highest of the two or more check amounts, or the correct amount if higher (subject to the dollar limitation provisions), shall be continued until a decision on such initial level of appeal is issued. See § 416.1474 for criteria as to good cause for failure to file a timely appeal. For purposes of this paragraph, the date of receipt of the notice of intent shall be presumed to be 5 days after the date on the face of such notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.


(4) The fact that a recipient is receiving multiple payments is established if the records of the Social Security Administration show that:


(i) Two or more checks are being sent to an individual under the same name or a common logical spelling variation of the name;


(ii) The social security number is the same or a pseudo number appears;


(iii) The checks are being sent to the same address;


(iv) The sex code for such individual is the same; and


(v) The date of birth for such individual is the same.


(b) *Dollar limitation exception.* (1) Where it is determined that a recipient is receiving an erroneous monthly payment which exceeds the dollar limitation applicable to the recipient's payment category, as set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the Social Security Administration shall determine the correct payment amount and, as soon as practicable thereafter, send the recipient an advance written notice of intent to make subsequent payment in that amount. Payment for the following month shall be made in the correct amount, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(2) The advance notice shall explain:


(i) That an erroneous monthly payment which exceeds the dollar limitation applicable to the recipient's payment category was made in the one or more months identified in the notice;


(ii) The correct amount of monthly benefits that the recipient is eligible to receive; and


(iii) The recipient's appeal rights.


(3) If an appeal is filed within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of the intent (see § 416.1474 for criteria as to good cause for failure to file a timely appeal), the amount of payment to be continued, pending decision on appeal, shall be determined as follows:


(i) *Recipient in payment status.* Where the recipient is in payment status, the payment shall be in the amount the recipient received in the month immediately preceding the month the dollar limitation was first exceeded (subject to intervening events which would have increased the benefit for the month in which the incorrect payment was made, in which case the higher amount shall be paid).


(ii) *Recipient in nonpayment status.* If the recipient's benefits were suspended in the month immediately preceding the month the dollar limitation was first exceeded, the payment shall be based on that amount which should have been paid in the month in which the incorrect payment was made. However, if the individual's benefits had been correctly suspended as provided in §§ 416.1320 through 416.1330 or § 416.1339 and they should have remained suspended but a benefit that exceeded the dollar limitation was paid, no further payment shall be made to him or her at this time and notice of the planned action shall not contain any provision regarding continuation of payment pending appeal. 


(4) The payment categories and dollar limitations are as follows:



---

[N] [43 FR 18170, Apr. 28, 1978, as amended at 65 FR 40495, June 30, 2000]




