# ยง 1.9004-1   Election relating to the determination of gross income from the property for taxable years beginning prior to 1961 in the case of certain clays and shale.

(a) *In general.* The Act of September 26, 1961 (Pub. L. 87-312, 75 Stat. 674), provides that certain taxpayers may elect to apply the provisions thereof to all taxable years beginning before January 1, 1961, with respect to which the election is effective. The Act prescribes special rules for the application of section 613 (a) and (c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (and corresponding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939) in the case of shale and certain clays used by the mine owner or operator in the manufacture of certain clay and shale products.


(b) *Election.* The election to apply the provisions of the Act may be made only by a mine owner or operator with respect to brick and tile clay, fire clay, or shale which he mined and used in the manufacture of building or paving brick, drainage and roofing tile, sewer pipe, flower pots, and kindred products. The election must be made in accordance with ยง 1.9004-4 on or before December 11, 1961, and the election shall become irrevocable on December 11, 1961.


(c) *Years to which the election is applicable.* If the election described in paragraph (b) of this section is made by the taxpayer, the provisions of the Act shall be effective for all taxable years beginning before January 1, 1961, in respect of which the:


(1) Assessment of a deficiency,


(2) Refund or credit of an overpayment, or


(3) Commencement of a suit for recovery of a refund under section 7405 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,



---

[N] [T.D. 6575, 26 FR 9632, Oct. 12, 1961]




