# § 1.148-7   Spending exceptions to the rebate requirement.

(a) *Scope of section*—(1) *In general.* This section provides guidance on the spending exceptions to the arbitrage rebate requirement of section 148(f)(2). These exceptions are the 6-month exception in section 148(f)(4)(B) (the *6-month exception*), the 18-month exception under paragraph (d) of this section (the *18-month exception*), and the 2-year construction exception under section 148(f)(4)(C) (the *2-year exception*) (collectively, the *spending exceptions*).


(2) *Relationship of spending exceptions.* Each of the spending exceptions is an independent exception to arbitrage rebate. For example, a construction issue may qualify for the 6-month exception or the 18-month exception even though the issuer makes one or more elections under the 2-year exception with respect to the issue.


(3) *Spending exceptions not mandatory.* Use of the spending exceptions is not mandatory. An issuer may apply the arbitrage rebate requirement to an issue that otherwise satisfies a spending exception. If an issuer elects to pay penalty in lieu of rebate under the 2-year exception, however, the issuer must apply those penalty provisions.


(b) *Rules applicable for all spending exceptions.* The provisions of this paragraph (b) apply for purposes of applying each of the spending exceptions.


(1) *Special transferred proceeds rules*—(i) *Application to prior issues.* For purposes of applying the spending exceptions to a prior issue only, proceeds of the prior issue that become transferred proceeds of the refunding issue continue to be treated as unspent proceeds of the prior issue. If the prior issue satisfies one of the spending exceptions, the proceeds of the prior issue that are excepted from rebate under that spending exception are not subject to rebate either as proceeds of the prior issue or as transferred proceeds of the refunding issue.


(ii) *Application to refunding issues*—(A) *In general.* The only spending exception applicable to refunding issues is the 6-month exception. For purposes of applying the 6-month exception to a refunding issue only, proceeds of the prior issue that become transferred proceeds of the refunding issue generally are not treated as proceeds of the refunding issue and need not be spent for the refunding issue to satisfy that spending exception. Even if the refunding issue qualifies for that spending exception, those transferred proceeds are subject to rebate as proceeds of the refunding issue unless an exception to rebate applied to those proceeds as proceeds of the prior issue.


(B) *Exception.* For purposes of applying the 6-month exception to refunding issues, those transferred proceeds of the refunding issue excluded from the gross proceeds of the prior issue under the special definition of gross proceeds in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and those that transferred from a prior taxable issue, are generally treated as gross proceeds of the refunding issue. Thus, for the refunding issue to qualify for the 6-month exception, those proceeds must be spent within 6 months of the issue date of the refunding issue, unless those amounts continue to be used in a manner that does not cause those amounts to be gross proceeds under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) *Application of multipurpose issue rules.* Except as otherwise provided, if any portion of an issue is treated as a separate issue allocable to refunding purposes under § 1.148-9(h) (relating to multipurpose issues), for purposes of this section, that portion is treated as a separate issue.


(3) *Expenditures for governmental purposes of the issue.* For purposes of this section, expenditures for the governmental purpose of an issue include payments for interest, but not principal, on the issue, and for principal or interest on another issue of obligations. The preceding sentence does not apply for purposes of the 18-month and 2-year exceptions if those payments cause the issue to be a refunding issue.


(4) *De minimis rule.* Any failure to satisfy the final spending requirement of the 18-month exception or the 2-year exception is disregarded if the issuer exercises due diligence to complete the project financed and the amount of the failure does not exceed the lesser of 3 percent of the issue price of the issue or $250,000.


(5) *Special definition of reasonably required reserve or replacement fund.* For purposes of this section only, a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund also includes any fund to the extent described in § 1.148-5(c)(3)(i)(E) or (G).


(6) *Pooled financing issue*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b)(6), the spending exceptions apply to a pooled financing issue as a whole, rather than to each loan separately.


(ii) *Election to apply spending exceptions separately to each loan*—(A) *In general.* At the election (made on or before the issue date) of the issuer of a pooled financing issue, the spending exceptions are applied separately to each conduit loan, and the applicable spending requirements for a loan begin on the earlier of the date the loan is made, or the first day following the 1-year period beginning on the issue date of the pooled financing issue. If this election is made, the rebate requirement applies to, and none of the spending exceptions are available for, gross proceeds of the pooled financing bonds before the date on which the spending requirements for those proceeds begin.


(B) *Application of spending exceptions.* If the issuer makes the election under this paragraph (b)(6)(ii), the rebate requirement is satisfied for proceeds used to finance a particular conduit loan to the extent that the loan satisfies a spending exception or the small issuer exception under § 1.148-8, regardless of whether any other conduit loans allocable to the issue satisfy such an exception. A pooled financing issue is an issue of arbitrage bonds, however, unless the entire issue satisfies the requirements of section 148. An issuer may pay rebate for some conduit loans and 1
1/2 percent penalty for other conduit loans from the same pooled financing issue. The 1
1/2 percent penalty is computed separately for each conduit loan.


(C) *Elections under 2-year exception.* If the issuer makes the election under this paragraph (b)(6)(ii), the issuer may make all elections under the 2-year exception separately for each loan. Elections regarding a loan that otherwise must be made by the issuer on or before the issue date instead may be made on or before the date the loan is made (but not later than 1 year after the issue date).


(D) *Example.* The operation of this paragraph (b)(6) is illustrated by the following example:


(c) *6-month exception*—(1)*General rule.* An issue is treated as meeting the rebate requirement if—


(i) The gross proceeds (as modified by paragraph (c)(3) of this section) of the issue are allocated to expenditures for the governmental purposes of the issue within the 6-month period beginning on the issue date (the *6-month spending period*); and


(ii) The rebate requirement is met for amounts not required to be spent within the 6-month spending period (excluding earnings on a bona fide debt service fund).


(2) *Additional period for certain bonds.* The 6-month spending period is extended for an additional 6 months in certain circumstances specified under section 148(f)(4)(B)(ii).


(3) *Amounts not included in gross proceeds.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section only, gross proceeds has the meaning used in § 1.148-1, except it does not include amounts—


(i) In a bona fide debt service fund;


(ii) In a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund (see § 1.148-7(b)(5));


(iii) That, as of the issue date, are not reasonably expected to be gross proceeds but that become gross proceeds after the end of the 6-month spending period;


(iv) Representing sale or investment proceeds derived from payments under any purpose investment of the issue; and


(v) Representing repayments of grants (as defined in § 1.150-1(f)) financed by the issue.


(4) *Series of refundings.* If a principal purpose of a series of refunding issues is to exploit the difference between taxable and tax-exempt interest rates by investing proceeds during the temporary periods provided in § 1.148-9(d), the 6-month spending period for all issues in the series begins on the issue date of the first issue in the series.


(d) *18-month exception*—(1) *General rule.* An issue is treated as meeting the rebate requirement if all of the following requirements are satisfied—


(i) *18-month expenditure schedule met.* The gross proceeds (as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section) are allocated to expenditures for a governmental purpose of the issue in accordance with the following schedule (the *18-month expenditure schedule*) measured from the issue date—


(A) At least 15 percent within 6 months (the *first spending period*);


(B) At least 60 percent within 12 months (the *second spending period*); and


(C) 100 percent within 18 months (the *third spending period*).


(ii) *Rebate requirement met for amounts not required to be spent.* The rebate requirement is met for all amounts not required to be spent in accordance with the 18-month expenditure schedule (other than earnings on a bona fide debt service fund).


(iii) *Issue qualifies for initial temporary period.* All of the gross proceeds (as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section) of the issue qualify for the initial temporary period under § 1.148-2(e)(2).


(2) *Extension for reasonable retainage.* An issue does not fail to satisfy the spending requirement for the third spending period as a result of a reasonable retainage if the reasonable retainage is allocated to expenditures within 30 months of the issue date. Reasonable retainage has the meaning under paragraph (h) of this section, as modified to refer to net sale proceeds on the date 18 months after the issue date.


(3) *Gross proceeds*—(i) *Definition of gross proceeds.* For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section only, *gross proceeds* means gross proceeds as defined in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, as modified to refer to “18 months” in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section in lieu of “6 months.”


(ii) *Estimated earnings.* For purposes of determining compliance with the first two spending periods under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the amount of investment proceeds included in gross proceeds of the issue is determined based on the issuer's reasonable expectations on the issue date.


(4) *Application to multipurpose issues.* This paragraph (d) does not apply to an issue any portion of which is treated as meeting the rebate requirement under paragraph (e) of this section (relating to the 2-year exception).


(e) *2-year exception*—(1) *General rule.* A construction issue is treated as meeting the rebate requirement for available construction proceeds if those proceeds are allocated to expenditures for governmental purposes of the issue in accordance with the following schedule (the *2-year expenditure schedule*), measured from the issue date—


(i) At least 10 percent within 6 months (the *first spending period*);


(ii) At least 45 percent within 1 year (the *second spending period*);


(iii) At least 75 percent within 18 months (the *third spending period*); and


(iv) 100 percent within 2 years (the *fourth spending period*).


(2) *Extension for reasonable retainage.* An issue does not fail to satisfy the spending requirement for the fourth spending period as a result of unspent amounts for reasonable retainage (as defined in paragraph (h) of this section) if those amounts are allocated to expenditures within 3 years of the issue date.


(3) *Definitions.* For purposes of the 2-year exception, the following definitions apply:


(i) *Real property* means land and improvements to land, such as buildings or other inherently permanent structures, including interests in real property. For example, real property includes wiring in a building, plumbing systems, central heating or air-conditioning systems, pipes or ducts, elevators, escalators installed in a building, paved parking areas, roads, wharves and docks, bridges, and sewage lines.


(ii) *Tangible personal property* means any tangible property other than real property, including interests in tangible personal property. For example, tangible personal property includes machinery that is not a structural component of a building, subway cars, fire trucks, automobiles, office equipment, testing equipment, and furnishings.


(iii) *Substantially completed.* Construction may be treated as substantially completed when the issuer abandons construction or when at least 90 percent of the total costs of the construction reasonably expected, as of that date, to be financed with the available construction proceeds have been allocated to expenditures.


(f) *Construction issue*—(1) *Definition. Construction issue* means any issue that is not a refunding issue if—


(i) The issuer reasonably expects, as of the issue date, that at least 75 percent of the available construction proceeds of the issue will be allocated to construction expenditures (as defined in paragraph (g) of this section) for property owned by a governmental unit or a 501(c)(3) organization; and


(ii) Any private activity bonds that are part of the issue are qualified 501(c)(3) bonds or private activity bonds issued to finance property to be owned by a governmental unit or a 501(c)(3) organization.


(2) *Use of actual facts.* For the provisions of paragraphs (e) through (m) of this section that apply based on the issuer's reasonable expectations, an issuer may elect on or before the issue date to apply all of those provisions based on actual facts, except that this election does not apply for purposes of determining whether an issue is a construction issue under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if the 1
1/2 percent penalty election is made under paragraph (k) of this section.


(3) *Ownership requirement*—(i) *In general.* A governmental unit or 501(c)(3) organization is treated as the owner of property if it would be treated as the owner for Federal income tax purposes. For obligations issued on behalf of a State or local governmental unit, the entity that actually issues the bonds is treated as a governmental unit.


(ii) *Safe harbor for leases and management contracts.* Property leased by a governmental unit or a 501(c)(3) organization is treated as owned by the governmental unit or 501(c)(3) organization if the lessee complies with the requirements of section 142(b)(1)(B). For a bond described in section 142(a)(6), the requirements of section 142(b)(1)(B) apply as modified by section 146(h)(2).


(g) *Construction expenditures*—(1) *Definition.* Except as otherwise provided, *construction expenditures* means capital expenditures (as defined in § 1.150-1) that are allocable to the cost of real property or constructed personal property (as defined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section). Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, construction expenditures do not include expenditures for acquisitions of interests in land or other existing real property.


(2) *Certain acquisitions under turnkey contracts treated as construction expenditures.* Expenditures are not for the acquisition of an interest in existing real property other than land if the contract between the seller and the issuer requires the seller to build or install the property (e.g., a *turnkey contract*), but only to the extent that the property has not been built or installed at the time the parties enter into the contract.


(3) *Constructed personal property. Constructed personal property* means tangible personal property (or, if acquired pursuant to a single acquisition contract, properties) or specially developed computer software if—


(i) A substantial portion of the property or properties is completed more than 6 months after the earlier of the date construction or rehabilitation commenced and the date the issuer entered into an acquisition contract;


(ii) Based on the reasonable expectations of the issuer, if any, or representations of the person constructing the property, with the exercise of due diligence, completion of construction or rehabilitation (and delivery to the issuer) could not have occurred within that 6-month period; and


(iii) If the issuer itself builds or rehabilitates the property, not more than 75 percent of the capitalizable cost is attributable to property acquired by the issuer (e.g., components, raw materials, and other supplies).


(4) *Specially developed computer software. Specially developed computer software* means any programs or routines used to cause a computer to perform a desired task or set of tasks, and the documentation required to describe and maintain those programs, provided that the software is specially developed and is functionally related and subordinate to real property or other constructed personal property.


(5) *Examples.* The operation of this paragraph (g) is illustrated by the following examples:


(h) *Reasonable retainage definition. Reasonable retainage* means an amount, not to exceed 5 percent of available construction proceeds as of the end of the fourth spending period, that is retained for reasonable business purposes relating to the property financed with the proceeds of the issue. For example, a reasonable retainage may include a retention to ensure or promote compliance with a construction contract in circumstances in which the retained amount is not yet payable, or in which the issuer reasonably determines that a dispute exists regarding completion or payment.


(i) *Available construction proceeds*—(1) *Definition in general. Available construction proceeds* has the meaning used in section 148(f)(4)(C)(vi). For purposes of this definition, earnings include earnings on any tax-exempt bond. Pre-issuance accrued interest and earnings thereon may be disregarded. Amounts that are not gross proceeds as a result of the application of the universal cap under § 1.148-6(b)(2) are not available construction proceeds.


(2) *Earnings on a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund.* Earnings on any reasonably required reserve or replacement fund are available construction proceeds only to the extent that those earnings accrue before the earlier of the date construction is substantially completed or the date that is 2 years after the issue date. An issuer may elect on or before the issue date to exclude from available construction proceeds the earnings on such a fund. If the election is made, the rebate requirement applies to the excluded amounts from the issue date.


(3) *Reasonable expectations test for future earnings.* For purposes of determining compliance with the spending requirements as of the end of each of the first three spending periods, available construction proceeds include the amount of future earnings that the issuer reasonably expected as of the issue date.


(4) *Issuance costs.* Available construction proceeds do not include gross proceeds used to pay issuance costs financed by an issue, but do include earnings on such proceeds. Thus, an expenditure of gross proceeds of an issue for issuance costs does not count toward meeting the spending requirements. The expenditure of earnings on gross proceeds used to pay issuance costs does count toward meeting those requirements. If the spending requirements are met and the proceeds used to pay issuance costs are expended by the end of the fourth spending period, those proceeds and the earnings thereon are treated as having satisfied the rebate requirement.


(5) *One and one-half percent penalty in lieu of arbitrage rebate.* For purposes of the spending requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, available construction proceeds as of the end of any spending period are reduced by the amount of penalty in lieu of arbitrage rebate (under paragraph (k) of this section) that the issuer has paid from available construction proceeds before the last day of the spending period.


(6) *Payments on purpose investments and repayments of grants.* Available construction proceeds do not include—


(i) Sale or investment proceeds derived from payments under any purpose investment of the issue; or


(ii) Repayments of grants (as defined in § 1.150-1(f)) financed by the issue.


(7) *Examples.* The operation of this paragraph (i) is illustrated by the following examples:


(j) *Election to treat portion of issue used for construction as separate issue*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, if any proceeds of an issue are to be used for construction expenditures, the issuer may elect on or before the issue date to treat the portion of the issue that is not a refunding issue as two, and only two, separate issues, if—


(i) One of the separate issues is a construction issue as defined in paragraph (f) of this section;


(ii) The issuer reasonably expects, as of the issue date, that this construction issue will finance all of the construction expenditures to be financed by the issue; and


(iii) The issuer makes an election to apportion the issue under this paragraph (j)(1) in which it identifies the amount of the issue price of the issue allocable to the construction issue.


(2) *Example.* The operation of this paragraph (j) is illustrated by the following example.


(k) *One and one-half percent penalty in lieu of arbitrage rebate*—(1) *In general.* Under section 148(f)(4)(C)(vii), an issuer of a construction issue may elect on or before the issue date to pay a penalty (the *1
*) to the United States in lieu of the obligation to pay the rebate amount on available construction proceeds upon failure to satisfy the spending requirements of paragraph (e) of this section. The 1
1/2 percent penalty is calculated separately for each spending period, including each semiannual period after the end of the fourth spending period, and is equal to 1.5 percent times the underexpended proceeds as of the end of the spending period. For each spending period, underexpended proceeds equal the amount of available construction proceeds required to be spent by the end of the spending period, less the amount actually allocated to expenditures for the governmental purposes of the issue by that date. The 1
1/2 percent penalty must be paid to the United States no later than 90 days after the end of the spending period to which it relates. The 1
1/2 percent penalty continues to apply at the end of each spending period and each semiannual period thereafter until the earliest of the following—


(i) The termination of the penalty under paragraph (l) of this section;


(ii) The expenditure of all of the available construction proceeds; or


(iii) The last stated final maturity date of bonds that are part of the issue and any bonds that refund those bonds.


(2) *Application to reasonable retainage.* If an issue meets the exception for reasonable retainage except that all retainage is not spent within 3 years of the issue date, the issuer must pay the 1
1/2 percent penalty to the United States for any reasonable retainage that was not so spent as of the close of the 3-year period and each later spending period.


(3) *Coordination with rebate requirement.* The rebate requirement is treated as met with respect to available construction proceeds for a period if the 1
1/2 percent penalty is paid in accordance with this section.


(l) *Termination of 1
*—(1)*Termination after initial temporary period.* The issuer may terminate the 1
1/2 percent penalty after the initial temporary period (a *section 148(f)(4)(C)(viii) penalty termination*) if—


(i) Not later than 90 days after the earlier of the end of the initial temporary period or the date construction is substantially completed, the issuer elects to terminate the 1
1/2 percent penalty; provided that solely for this purpose, the initial temporary period may be extended by the issuer to a date ending 5 years after the issue date;


(ii) Within 90 days after the end of the initial temporary period, the issuer pays a penalty equal to 3 percent of the unexpended available construction proceeds determined as of the end of the initial temporary period, multiplied by the number of years (including fractions of years computed to 2 decimal places) in the initial temporary period;


(iii) For the period beginning as of the close of the initial temporary period, the unexpended available construction proceeds are not invested in higher yielding investments; and


(iv) On the earliest date on which the bonds may be called or otherwise redeemed, with or without a call premium, the unexpended available construction proceeds as of that date (not including any amount earned after the date on which notice of the redemption was required to be given) must be used to redeem the bonds. Amounts used to pay any call premium are treated as used to redeem bonds. This redemption requirement may be met by purchases of bonds by the issuer on the open market at prices not exceeding fair market value. A portion of the annual principal payment due on serial bonds of a construction issue may be paid from the unexpended amount, but only in an amount no greater than the amount that bears the same ratio to the annual principal due that the total unexpended amount bears to the issue price of the construction issue.


(2) *Termination before end of initial temporary period.* If the construction to be financed by the construction issue is substantially completed before the end of the initial temporary period, the issuer may elect to terminate the 1
1/2 percent penalty before the end of the initial temporary period (a *section 148(f)(4)(C)(ix) penalty termination*) if—


(i) Before the close of the initial temporary period and not later than 90 days after the date the construction is substantially completed, the issuer elects to terminate the 1
1/2 percent penalty;


(ii) The election identifies the amount of available construction proceeds that will not be spent for the governmental purposes of the issue; and


(iii) The issuer has met all of the conditions for a section 148(f)(4)(C)(viii) penalty termination, applied as if the initial temporary period ended as of the date the required election for a section 148(f)(4)(C)(ix) penalty termination is made. That penalty termination election satisfies the required election for a section 148(f)(4)(C)(viii) termination.


(3) *Application to reasonable retainage.* Solely for purposes of determining whether the conditions for terminating the 1
1/2 percent penalty are met, reasonable retainage may be treated as spent for a governmental purpose of the construction issue. Reasonable retainage that is so treated continues to be subject to the 1
1/2 percent penalty.


(4) *Example.* The operation of this paragraph (l) is illustrated by the following example.


(m) *Payment of penalties.* Each penalty payment under this section must be paid in the manner provided in § 1.148-3(g). See § 1.148-3(h) for rules on failures to pay penalties under this section.



---

[N] [T.D. 8476, 58 FR 33535, June 18, 1993; 58 FR 44452, Aug. 23, 1993; T.D. 9777, 81 FR 46597, July 18, 2016]




