# § 93.317   Horses from Canada.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, horses from Canada shall be inspected as provided in § 93.306 and accompanied by a certificate as required by § 93.314, which shall include evidence of a negative test for equine infectious anemia for which blood samples were drawn during the 180 days preceding exportation to the United States and which test was conducted in a laboratory approved by the Canada Department of Agriculture or the United States Department of Agriculture. Horses accompanying their dams, which were foaled after their dam was so tested negative, need not be so tested and shall otherwise be handled as provided in § 93.314. Certificates required for horses from Canada must be issued or endorsed by a salaried veterinarian of the Canadian Government. USDA veterinary port inspection is not required for horses imported from Canada under temporary Customs authorization for a period of 30 days from the date of issue of the certificate and the certificate issued is valid for an unlimited number of importations into the United States during the 30-day period.


(b) Horses of United States origin that are imported into Canada under an export health certificate valid for a period of 30 days from the date of issue may re-enter the United States an unlimited number of times during the 30-day period, without USDA veterinary port inspection, at any Custom land border port of entry designated for animals from Canada, if accompanied by the original export health certificate under which they were permitted entry into Canada.


(c) Any horse imported into the United States from Canada through air or ocean ports of entry must obtain an import permit under § 93.304 and shall otherwise be handled as provided in §§ 93.305 and 93.314.


(d) Horses for immediate slaughter may be imported from Canada without the certification prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section, but shall be subject to the other applicable provisions of this part, and shall be accompanied by a certificate issued or endorsed by a salaried veterinarian of the Canadian Government stating that: 


(1) The horses were inspected on the premises where assembled for shipment to the United States within the 30 days immediately prior to the date of export and were found free of evidence of communicable disease, and 


(2) As far as can be determined, they have not been exposed to any such disease during the 60 days immediately preceding their exportation. 



---

[N] [55 FR 31495, Aug. 2, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 33863, July 24, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 62 FR 56012, 56017, Oct. 28, 1997; 88 FR 63004, Sept. 14, 2023; 89 FR 24340, Apr. 8, 2024]




