# ยง 745.325   Lead-based paint activities: State and Tribal program requirements.

(a) *Program elements.* To receive authorization from EPA, a State or Tribal program must contain at least the following program elements for lead-based paint activities:


(1) Procedures and requirements for the accreditation of lead-based paint activities training programs.


(2) Procedures and requirements for the certification of individuals engaged in lead-based paint activities.


(3) Work practice standards for the conduct of lead-based paint activities.


(4) Requirements that all lead-based paint activities be conducted by appropriately certified contractors.


(5) Development of the appropriate infrastructure or government capacity to effectively carry out a State or Tribal program.


(b) *Accreditation of training programs.* The State or Indian Tribe must have either:


(1) Procedures and requirements for the accreditation of training programs that establish:


(i) Requirements for the accreditation of training programs, including but not limited to:


(A) Training curriculum requirements.


(B) Training hour requirements.


(C) Hands-on training requirements.


(D) Trainee competency and proficiency requirements.


(E) Requirements for training program quality control.


(ii) Procedures for the re-accreditation of training programs.


(iii) Procedures for the oversight of training programs.


(iv) Procedures for the suspension, revocation, or modification of training program accreditations; or


(2) Procedures or regulations, for the purposes of certification, for the acceptance of training offered by an accredited training provider in a State or Tribe authorized by EPA.


(c) *Certification of individuals.* The State or Indian Tribe must have requirements for the certification of individuals that:


(1) Ensure that certified individuals:


(i) Are trained by an accredited training program; and


(ii) Possess appropriate education or experience qualifications for certification.


(2) Establish procedures for re-certification.


(3) Require the conduct of lead-based paint activities in accordance with work practice standards established by the State or Indian Tribe.


(4) Establish procedures for the suspension, revocation, or modification of certifications.


(5) Establish requirements and procedures for the administration of a third-party certification exam.


(d) *Work practice standards for the conduct of lead-based paint activities.* The State or Indian Tribe must have requirements or standards that ensure that lead-based paint activities are conducted reliably, effectively, and safely. At a minimum the State's or Indian Tribe's work practice standards for conducting inspections, risk assessments, and abatements must contain the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section.


(1) The work practice standards for the inspection for the presence of lead-based paint must require that:


(i) Inspections are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct inspections.


(ii) Inspections are conducted in a way that identifies the presence of lead-based paint on painted surfaces within the interior or on the exterior of a residential dwelling or child-occupied facility.


(iii) Inspections are conducted in a way that uses documented methodologies that incorporate adequate quality control procedures.


(iv) A report is developed that clearly documents the results of the inspection.


(v) Records are retained by the certified inspector or the firm.


(2) The work practice standards for risk assessment must require that:


(i) Risk assessments are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct risk assessments.


(ii) Risk assessments are conducted in a way that identifies and reports the presence of lead-based paint hazards.


(iii) Risk assessments consist of, at least:


(A) An assessment, including a visual inspection, of the physical characteristics of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility; 


(B) Environmental sampling for lead in paint, dust, and soil;


(C) Environmental sampling requirements for lead in paint, dust, and soil that allow for comparison to the standards for lead-based paint hazards established or revised by the State or Indian Tribe pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; and


(D) A determination of the presence of lead-based paint hazards made by comparing the results of visual inspection and environmental sampling to the standards for lead-based paint hazards established or revised by the State or Indian Tribe pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.


(iv) The program elements required in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(C) and (d)(2)(iii)(D) of this section shall be adopted in accordance with the schedule for the demonstration required in paragraph (e) of this section.


(v) The risk assessor develops a report that clearly presents the results of the assessment and recommendations for the control or elimination of all identified hazards.


(vi) The certified risk assessor or the firm retains the appropriate records.


(3) The work practice standards for abatement must require that:


(i) Abatements are conducted only by individuals certified by the appropriate State or Tribal authority to conduct or supervise abatements.


(ii) Abatements permanently eliminate lead-based paint hazards, in the case of dust-lead hazards to below the action levels, and are conducted in a way that does not increase the hazards of lead-based paint to the occupants of the dwelling or child-occupied facility.




(iii) Abatements include post-abatement lead in dust sampling and conformance with the action levels established or adopted by the State or Indian Tribe.




(iv) The abatement contractor develops a report that describes areas of the residential dwelling or child-occupied facility abated and the techniques employed.


(v) The certified abatement contractor or the firm retains appropriate records. 


(e) *Revisions to lead-based paint activities program requirements.* When EPA publishes in the _Federal Register_ revisions to the lead-based paint activities program requirements contained in subpart L of this part:


(1) A State or Tribe with a lead-based paint activities program approved before the effective date of the revisions to the lead-based paint activities program requirements in subpart L of this part must demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section in a report that it submits pursuant to ยง 745.324(h) but no later than two years after the effective date of the revisions.


(2) A State or Tribe with an application for approval of a lead-based paint activities program submitted but not approved before the effective date of the revisions to the lead-based paint activities program requirements in subpart L of this part must demonstrate that it meets the requirements of this section either by amending its application or in a report that it submits pursuant to ยง 745.324(h) but no later than two years after the effective date of the revisions.


(3) A State or Tribe submitting its application for approval of a lead-based paint activities program on or after the effective date of the revisions must demonstrate in its application that it meets the requirements of the new lead-based paint activities program requirements in subpart L of this part.



---

[N] [61 FR 45825, Aug. 29, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 1240, Jan. 5, 2001; 84 FR 32648, July 9, 2019; 89 FR 89461, Nov. 12, 2024]




