# ยง 80.1456   What are the provisions for cellulosic biofuel waiver credits?

(a) If EPA reduces the applicable volume of cellulosic biofuel pursuant to section 211(o)(7)(D)(i) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(7)(D)(i)) for any given compliance year, then EPA will provide cellulosic biofuel waiver credits for purchase for that compliance year.


(1) The price of these cellulosic biofuel waiver credits will be set by EPA on an annual basis in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) The total cellulosic biofuel waiver credits available will be equal to the reduced cellulosic biofuel volume established by EPA for the compliance year.


(b) *Use of cellulosic biofuel waiver credits.* (1) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits are only valid for use in the compliance year that they are made available.


(2) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits are nonrefundable.


(3) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits are nontransferable.


(4) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits may only be used for an obligated party's current year cellulosic biofuel RVO and not towards any prior year deficit cellulosic biofuel volume obligations.


(c) *Purchase of cellulosic biofuel waiver credits.* (1) Only parties with an RVO for cellulosic biofuel may purchase cellulosic biofuel waiver credits.


(2) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits shall be purchased from EPA at the time that a party submits its annual compliance report to EPA pursuant to ยง 80.1451(a)(1).


(3) Parties may not purchase more cellulosic biofuel waiver credits than their current year cellulosic biofuel RVO minus cellulosic biofuel RINs with a D code of 3 that they own.


(4) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits may only be used to meet an obligated party's cellulosic biofuel RVO.


(d) *Setting the price of cellulosic biofuel waiver credits.* (1) The price for cellulosic biofuel waiver credits shall be set equal to the greater of:


(i) $0.25 per cellulosic biofuel waiver credit, adjusted for inflation in comparison to calendar year 2008; or


(ii) $3.00 less the wholesale price of gasoline per cellulosic biofuel waiver credit, adjusted for inflation in comparison to calendar year 2008.


(2) The wholesale price of gasoline will be calculated by averaging the most recent twelve monthly values for U.S. Total Gasoline Bulk Sales (Price) by Refiners as provided by the Energy Information Administration that are available as of September 30 of the year preceding the compliance period.


(3) The inflation adjustment will be calculated by comparing the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U): U.S. City Average, Unadjusted Index for All Items expenditure category as provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for June of the year preceding the compliance period to the comparable value reported for January 2009.


(e) Cellulosic biofuel waiver credits under this section will only be able to be purchased on forms and following procedures prescribed by EPA.



---

[N] [75 FR 14863, Mar. 26, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 18141, Apr. 3, 2015]




