# § 35.1355   Ongoing lead-based paint maintenance and reevaluation activities.

(a) *Maintenance.* Maintenance activities shall be conducted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2)-(6) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(1) Maintenance activities need not be conducted in accordance with this section if a lead-based paint inspection indicates that no lead-based paint is present in the dwelling units, common areas, and on exterior surfaces, or a clearance report prepared in accordance with § 35.1340(a) indicates that all lead-based paint has been removed.


(2) A visual assessment for deteriorated paint, bare soil, and the failure of any hazard reduction measures shall be performed at unit turnover and every twelve months.


(3) (i) *Deteriorated paint.* All deteriorated paint on interior and exterior surfaces located on the residential property shall be stabilized in accordance with § 35.1330(a)(b), except for any paint that an evaluation has found is not lead-based paint.


(ii) *Bare soil.* All bare soil shall be treated with standard treatments in accordance with § 35.1335(d) through (g), or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1330(a) and (f); except for any bare soil that a current evaluation has found is not a soil-lead hazard.


(4) Safe work practices, in accordance with sec. 35.1350, shall be used when performing any maintenance or renovation work that disturbs paint that may be lead-based paint.


(5) Any encapsulation or enclosure of lead-based paint or lead-based paint hazards which has failed to maintain its effectiveness shall be repaired, or abatement or interim controls shall be performed in accordance with §§ 35.1325 or 35.1330, respectively.


(6) Clearance testing of the worksite shall be performed at the conclusion of repair, abatement or interim controls in accordance with § 35.1340.


(7) Each dwelling unit shall be provided with written notice asking occupants to report deteriorated paint and, if applicable, failure of encapsulation or enclosure, along with the name, address and telephone number of the person whom occupants should contact. The language of the notice shall be in accordance with § 35.125(c)(3). The designated party shall respond to such report and stabilize the deteriorated paint or repair the encapsulation or enclosure within 30 days.


(b) *Reevaluation.* Reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b), and the designated party shall conduct interim controls of lead-based paint hazards found in the reevaluation.


(1) Reevaluation shall be conducted if hazard reduction has been conducted to reduce lead-based paint hazards found in a risk assessment or if standard treatments have been conducted, except that reevaluation is not required if any of the following cases are met:


(i) An initial risk assessment found no lead-based paint hazards;


(ii) A lead-based paint inspection found no lead-based paint; or


(iii) All lead-based paint was abated in accordance with § 35.1325, provided that no failures of encapsulations or enclosures have been found during visual assessments conducted in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(2) or during other observations by maintenance and repair workers in accordance with § 35.1355(a)(5) since the encapsulations or enclosures were performed.


(2) Reevaluation shall be conducted to identify:


(i) Deteriorated paint surfaces with known or suspected lead-based paint;


(ii) Deteriorated or failed interim controls of lead-based paint hazards or encapsulation or enclosure treatments;


(iii) Dust-lead hazards; and


(iv) Soil that is newly bare with lead levels equal to or above the standards in § 35.1320(b)(2).


(3) Each reevaluation shall be performed by a certified risk assessor.


(4) Each reevaluation shall be conducted in accordance with the following schedule if a risk assessment or other evaluation has found deteriorated lead-based paint in the residential property, a soil-lead hazard, or a dust-lead hazard on a floor or interior window sill. (Window troughs are not sampled during reevaluation). The first reevaluation shall be conducted no later than two years from completion of hazard reduction. Subsequent reevaluation shall be conducted at intervals of two years, plus or minus 60 days. To be exempt from additional reevaluation, at least two consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two-year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure of an encapsulation or enclosure. If, however, a reevaluation finds lead-based paint hazards or a failure, at least two more consecutive reevaluations conducted at such two year intervals must be conducted without finding lead-based paint hazards or a failure.


(5) Each reevaluation shall be performed as follows:


(i) Dwelling units and common areas shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).


(ii) The worksites of previous hazard reduction activities that are similar on the basis of their original lead-based paint hazard and type of treatment shall be grouped. Worksites within such groups shall be selected and reevaluated in accordance with § 35.1320(b).


(6) Each reevaluation shall include reviewing available information, conducting selected visual assessment, recommending responses to hazard reduction omissions or failures, performing selected evaluation of paint, soil and dust, and recommending response to newly-found lead-based paint hazards.


(i) *Review of available information.* The risk assessor shall review any available past evaluation, hazard reduction and clearance reports, and any other available information describing hazard reduction measures, ongoing maintenance activities, and relevant building operations.


(ii) *Visual assessment.* The risk assessor shall:


(A) Visually evaluate all lead-based paint hazard reduction treatments, any known or suspected lead-based paint, any deteriorated paint, and each exterior site, and shall identify any new areas of bare soil;


(B) Determine acceptable options for controlling the hazard; and


(C) Await the correction of any hazard reduction omission or failure and the reduction of any lead-based paint hazard before sampling any dust or soil the risk assessor determines may reasonably be associated with such hazard.


(iii) *Reaction to hazard reduction omission or failure.* If any hazard reduction control has not been implemented or is failing (e.g., an encapsulant is peeling away from the wall, a paint-stabilized surface is no longer intact, or gravel covering an area of bare soil has worn away), or deteriorated lead-based paint is present, the risk assessor shall:


(A) Determine acceptable options for controlling the hazard; and


(B) Await the correction of any hazard reduction omission or failure and the reduction of any lead-based paint hazard before sampling any dust or soil the risk assessor determines may reasonably be associated with such hazard.


(iv) *Selected paint, soil and dust evaluation.* (A) The risk assessor shall sample deteriorated paint surfaces identified during the visual assessment and have the samples analyzed, in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(b)(3)(4), but only if reliable information about lead content is unavailable.


(B) The risk assessor shall evaluate new areas of bare soil identified during the visual assessment. Soil samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 CFR 745.227(d)(8)-(11), but only if the soil lead levels have not been previously measured.


(C) The risk assessor shall take selected dust samples and have them analyzed. Dust samples shall be collected and analyzed in accordance with § 35.1320(b). At least two composite samples, one from floors and the other from interior window sills, shall be taken in each dwelling unit and common area selected. Each composite sample shall consist of four individual samples, each collected from a different room or area. If the dwelling unit contains both carpeted and uncarpeted living areas, separate floor samples are required from the carpeted and uncarpeted areas. Equivalent single-surface sampling may be used instead of composite sampling.


(7) The risk assessor shall provide the designated party with a written report documenting the presence or absence of lead-based paint hazards, the current status of any hazard reduction and standard treatment measures used previously and any newly-conducted evaluation and hazard reduction activities. The report shall include the information in 40 CFR 745.227(d)(11), and shall:


(i) Identify any lead-based paint hazards previously detected and discuss the effectiveness of any hazard reduction or standard treatment measures used, and list those for which no measures have been used.


(ii) Describe any new hazards found and present the owner with acceptable control options and their accompanying reevaluation schedules.


(iii) Identify when the next reevaluation, if any, must occur, in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(c) *Response to the reevaluation*—(1) *Hazard reduction omission or failure found by a reevaluation.* The designated party shall respond in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A) of this section to a report by the risk assessor of a hazard reduction control that has not been implemented or is failing, or that deteriorated lead-based paint is present.


(2) *Newly-identified lead-based paint hazard found by a reevaluation.* The designated party shall treat each:


(i) Dust-lead hazard or paint lead hazard by cleaning or hazard reduction measures, which are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.


(ii) Soil-lead hazard by hazard reduction measures, which are considered completed when clearance is achieved in accordance with § 35.1340.



---

[N] [64 FR 50218, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34275, June 21, 2004]




