# § 7.62   Packaging (cartons, coverings, and cases).

(a) *General.* The term “packaging” includes any covering, carton, case, carrier, or other packaging of malt beverage containers used for sale at retail, but does not include shipping cartons or cases that are not intended to accompany the container to the consumer.


(b) *Prohibition.* Any packaging of malt beverage containers may not contain any statement, design, device, or graphic, pictorial, or emblematic representation that is prohibited on labels by regulations in subpart F, G, or H of this part.


(c) *Other information on packaging.* The following requirements apply to optional information on packaging.


(1) The packaging may display any information that is not in conflict with the labeling on the container or containers within the packaging.


(2) If the packaging displays a brand name, it must display the brand name in its entirety. For example, if a brand name is required to be modified with additional information on the container or containers within the packaging, the packaging must also display the same modifying language.


(3) If the packaging displays a class or type designation it must be identical to the class or type designation appearing on the container or containers within the packaging. For example, if the packaging displays a class or type designation for a specialty product for which a statement of composition is required on the container, the packaging must include the statement of composition as well.


(d) *Labeling of containers within the packaging.* The container or containers within the packaging are subject to all labeling requirements of this part, including mandatory labeling information requirements, regardless of whether the packaging bears such information.




