# ยง 6.102   Definitions.

(a) Subparts A through C of this part use the definitions found at 40 CFR part 1508. Additional definitions are listed in this subpart.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.


(2) *Applicant* means any individual, agency, or other entity that has:


(i) Filed an application for federal assistance;


(ii) Applied to EPA for a permit; or


(iii) Requested other EPA approval.


(3) *Assistance agreement* means an award of federal assistance in the form of money or property in lieu of money from EPA to an eligible applicant including grants or cooperative agreements.


(4) *Environmental information document* (EID) means a written analysis prepared by an applicant that provides sufficient information for the Responsible Official to undertake an environmental review and prepare either an EA and FONSI or an EIS and record of decision (ROD) for the proposed action.


(5) *Environmental review or NEPA review* means the process used to comply with section 102(2) of NEPA or the CEQ Regulations including development, supplementation, adoption, and revision of NEPA documents.


(6) *Extraordinary circumstances* means those circumstances listed in section 6.204 of this part that may cause a significant environmental effect such that a proposed action that otherwise meets the requirements of a categorical exclusion may not be categorically excluded.


(7) *NEPA document* is a document prepared pursuant to NEPA.


(8) *NEPA Official* is the Associate Administrator for the Office of Policy, who is responsible for EPA's NEPA compliance.


(9) *Responsible Official* means the EPA official responsible for compliance with NEPA for individual proposed actions. 



---

[N] [72 FR 53662, Sept. 19, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 5993, Feb. 4, 2009; 83 FR 48546, Sept. 26, 2018]




