# ยง 63.1061   Definitions.

All terms used in this subpart shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in this section.


*Capacity* means the volume of liquid that is capable of being stored in a vessel, determined by multiplying the vessel's internal cross-sectional area by the internal height of the shell.


*Deck cover* means a device which covers an opening in a floating roof deck. Some deck covers move horizontally relative to the deck (i.e., a sliding cover).


*Empty* or *emptying* means the partial or complete removal of stored liquid from a storage vessel. Storage vessels that contain liquid only as wall or bottom clingage, or in pools due to bottom irregularities, are considered completely empty.


*External floating roof* or *EFR* means a floating roof located in a storage vessel without a fixed roof.


*Fill* or *filling* means the introduction of liquid into a storage vessel, but not necessarily to capacity.


*Fixed roof* means a roof that is mounted (i.e., permanently affixed) on a storage vessel and that does not move with fluctuations in stored liquid level.


*Flexible fabric sleeve seal* means a seal made of an elastomeric fabric (or other material) which covers an opening in a floating roof deck, and which allows the penetration of a fixed roof support column. The seal is attached to the rim of the deck opening and extends to the outer surface of the column. The seal is draped (but does not contact the stored liquid) to allow the horizontal movement of the deck relative to the column.


*Floating roof* means a roof that floats on the surface of the liquid in a storage vessel. A floating roof substantially covers the stored liquid surface (but is not necessarily in contact with the entire surface), and is comprised of a deck, a rim seal, and miscellaneous deck fittings.


*Initial fill* or *initial filling means* the first introduction of liquid into a storage vessel that is either newly constructed or has not been in liquid service for a year or longer.


*Internal floating roof* or *IFR* means a floating roof located in a storage vessel with a fixed roof. For the purposes of this subpart, an external floating roof located in a storage vessel to which a fixed roof has been added is considered to be an internal floating roof.


*Liquid-mounted seal* means a resilient or liquid-filled rim seal designed to contact the stored liquid.


*Mechanical shoe seal* or *metallic shoe seal* means a rim seal consisting of a band of metal (or other suitable material) as the sliding contact with the wall of the storage vessel, and a fabric seal to close the annular space between the band and the rim of the floating roof deck. The band is typically formed as a series of sheets (shoes) that are overlapped or joined together to form a ring. The lower end of the band extends into the stored liquid.


*Pole float* means a float located inside a guidepole that floats on the surface of the stored liquid. The rim of the float has a wiper or seal that extends to the inner surface of the pole.


*Pole sleeve* means a device which extends from either the cover or the rim of an opening in a floating roof deck to the outer surface of a pole that passes through the opening. The sleeve extends into the stored liquid.


*Pole wiper* means a seal that extends from either the cover or the rim of an opening in a floating roof deck to the outer surface of a pole that passes through the opening.


*Referencing subpart* means the subpart that refers an owner or operator to this subpart.


*Rim seal* means a device attached to the rim of a floating roof deck that spans the annular space between the deck and the wall of the storage vessel. When a floating roof has only one such device, it is a primary seal; when there are two seals (one mounted above the other), the lower seal is the primary seal and the upper seal is the secondary seal.


*Slotted guidepole* means a guidepole or gaugepole that has slots or holes through the wall of the pole. The slots or holes allow the stored liquid to flow into the pole at liquid levels above the lowest operating level.


*Storage vessel* or *Tank* means a stationary unit that is constructed primarily of nonearthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel, fiberglass, or plastic) which provide structural support and is designed to hold an accumulation of liquids or other materials.


*Vapor-mounted seal* means a rim seal designed not to be in contact with the stored liquid. Vapor-mounted seals may include, but are not limited to, resilient seals and flexible wiper seals.




