# § 1066.625   Flow meter calibration calculations.

This section describes the calculations for calibrating various flow meters based on mass flow rates. Calibrate your flow meter according to 40 CFR 1065.640 instead if you calculate emissions based on molar flow rates.


(a) *PDP calibration.* Perform the following steps to calibrate a PDP flow meter:


(1) Calculate PDP volume pumped per revolution, *V*_rev,_ for each restrictor position from the mean values determined in § 1066.140:


(2) Calculate a PDP slip correction factor, *K*_s_ for each restrictor position from the mean values determined in § 1066.140:


(3) Perform a least-squares regression of *V*_rev_, versus *K*_s_, by calculating slope, *a*_1_, and intercept, *a*_0_, as described in 40 CFR 1065.602.


(4) Repeat the procedure in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section for every speed that you run your PDP.


(5) The following example illustrates a range of typical values for different PDP speeds:


(6) For each speed at which you operate the PDP, use the appropriate regression equation from this paragraph (a) to calculate flow rate during emission testing as described in § 1066.630.


(b) *SSV calibration.* The equations governing SSV flow assume one-dimensional isentropic inviscid flow of an ideal gas. Paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section describes other assumptions that may apply. If good engineering judgment dictates that you account for gas compressibility, you may either use an appropriate equation of state to determine values of *Z* as a function of measured pressure and temperature, or you may develop your own calibration equations based on good engineering judgment. Note that the equation for the flow coefficient, *C*_f_, is based on the ideal gas assumption that the isentropic exponent, _g_, is equal to the ratio of specific heats, *C*_p_/*C*_v._ If good engineering judgment dictates using a real gas isentropic exponent, you may either use an appropriate equation of state to determine values of *γ* as a function of measured pressure and temperature, or you may develop your own calibration equations based on good engineering judgment.


(1) Calculate volume flow rate at standard reference conditions, *V
*_std_, as follows


(2) Perform the following steps to calibrate an SSV flow meter:


(i) Using the data collected in § 1066.140, calculate *C*_d_ for each flow rate using the following equation:


(ii) Use the following equation to calculate *C*_f_ for each flow rate:


(iii) Calculate *r* using the following equation:


(iv) You may apply any of the following simplifying assumptions or develop other values as appropriate for your test configuration, consistent with good engineering judgment:


(A) For raw exhaust, diluted exhaust, and dilution air, you may assume that the gas mixture behaves as an ideal gas (*Z* = 1).


(B) For raw exhaust, you may assume _g_ = 1.385.


(C) For diluted exhaust and dilution air, you may assume _g_ = 1.399.


(D) For diluted exhaust and dilution air, you may assume the molar mass of the mixture, *M*_mix_, is a function only of the amount of water in the dilution air or calibration air, as follows:


(E) For diluted exhaust and dilution air, you may assume a constant molar mass of the mixture, *M*_mix_, for all calibration and all testing if you control the amount of water in dilution air and in calibration air, as illustrated in the following table:


(v) The following example illustrates the use of the governing equations to calculate *C*_d_ of an SSV flow meter at one reference flow meter value:


(vi) Calculate the Reynolds number, *Re*_#_, for each reference flow rate at standard conditions, *V*_refstd_, using the throat diameter of the venturi, *d*_t_, and the air density at standard conditions, _r__std_. Because the dynamic viscosity, _m_, is needed to compute *Re*_#_, you may use your own fluid viscosity model to determine _m_ for your calibration gas (usually air), using good engineering judgment. Alternatively, you may use the Sutherland three-coefficient viscosity model to approximate _m_, as shown in the following sample calculation for *Re*_#_:


Where, using the Sutherland three-coefficient viscosity model:


(vii) Calculate _r_ using the following equation:


(viii) Create an equation for *C*_d_ as a function of *Re*_#_, using paired values of the two quantities. The equation may involve any mathematical expression, including a polynomial or a power series. The following equation is an example of a commonly used mathematical expression for relating *C*_d_ and *Re*_#_:


(ix) Perform a least-squares regression analysis to determine the best-fit coefficients for the equation and calculate *SEE* as described in 40 CFR 1065.602.


(x) If the equation meets the criterion of *SEE* ≤0.5% ⋅ *C*_dmax_, you may use the equation for the corresponding range of *Re*_#_, as described in § 1066.630(b).


(xi) If the equation does not meet the specified statistical criteria, you may use good engineering judgment to omit calibration data points; however, you must use at least seven calibration data points to demonstrate that you meet the criterion. For example, this may involve narrowing the range of flow rates for a better curve fit.


(xii) Take corrective action if the equation does not meet the specified statistical criterion even after omitting calibration data points. For example, select another mathematical expression for the *C*_d_ versus *Re*_#_ equation, check for leaks, or repeat the calibration process. If you must repeat the calibration process, we recommend applying tighter tolerances to measurements and allowing more time for flows to stabilize.


(xiii) Once you have an equation that meets the specified statistical criterion, you may use the equation only for the corresponding range of *Re*_#_.


(c) *CFV calibration.* Some CFV flow meters consist of a single venturi and some consist of multiple venturis where different combinations of venturis are used to meter different flow rates. For CFV flow meters that consist of multiple venturis, either calibrate each venturi independently to determine a separate calibration coefficient, *K*_v_, for each venturi, or calibrate each combination of venturis as one venturi by determining *K*_v_ for the system.


(1) To determine *K*_v_ for a single venturi or a combination of venturis, perform the following steps:


(i) Calculate an individual *K*_v_ for each calibration set point for each restrictor position using the following equation:


(ii) Calculate the mean and standard deviation of all the *K*_v_ values (see 40 CFR 1065.602). Verify choked flow by plotting *K*_v_ as a function of *p*_in_. *K*_v_ will have a relatively constant value for choked flow; as vacuum pressure increases, the venturi will become unchoked and *K*_v_ will decrease. Paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) through (viii) of this section describe how to verify your range of choked flow.


(iii) If the standard deviation of all the *K*_v_ values is less than or equal to 0.3% of the mean *K*_v_, use the mean *K*_v_ in Eq. 1066.630-7, and use the CFV only up to the highest venturi pressure ratio, *r*, measured during calibration using the following equation:


(iv) If the standard deviation of all the *K*_v_ values exceeds 0.3% of the mean *K*_v_, omit the *K*_v_ value corresponding to the data point collected at the highest *r* measured during calibration.


(v) If the number of remaining data points is less than seven, take corrective action by checking your calibration data or repeating the calibration process. If you repeat the calibration process, we recommend checking for leaks, applying tighter tolerances to measurements and allowing more time for flows to stabilize.


(vi) If the number of remaining *K*_v_ values is seven or greater, recalculate the mean and standard deviation of the remaining *K*_v_ values.


(vii) If the standard deviation of the remaining *K*_v_ values is less than or equal to 0.3% of the mean of the remaining *K*_v_, use that mean *K*_v_ in Eq 1066.630-7, and use the CFV values only up to the highest *r* associated with the remaining *K*_v_.


(viii) If the standard deviation of the remaining *K*_v_ still exceeds 0.3% of the mean of the remaining *K*_v_ values, repeat the steps in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) through (vii) of this section.


(2) During exhaust emission tests, monitor sonic flow in the CFV by monitoring *r.* Based on the calibration data selected to meet the standard deviation criterion in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) and (vii) of this section, in which *K*_v_ is constant, select the data values associated with the calibration point with the lowest absolute venturi inlet pressure to determine the *r* limit. Calculate *r* during the exhaust emission test using Eq. 1066.625-8 to demonstrate that the value of *r* during all emission tests is less than or equal to the *r* limit derived from the CFV calibration data.



---

[N] [79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2016, as amended at 81 FR 74208, Oct. 25, 2016]




