# § 124.505   Eligibility criteria.

(a) A person unable to pay for health services is a person who—


(1) Is not covered, or receives services not covered, under a third-party insurer or governmental program, except where the person is not covered because the facility fails to participate in a program in which it is required to participate by § 124.603(c);


(2) Falls into one of the following categories:


(i) *Category A*—A person whose annual individual or family income, as applicable, is not greater than the current poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902 that applies to the individual or family. The facility shall provide uncompensated services to persons in Category A without charge.


(ii) *Category B*—A person whose annual individual or family income, as applicable, is greater than but not more than twice the poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902 that applies to the individual or family. If persons in Category B are included in the allocation plan, the facility shall provide uncompensated services to these persons without charge, or in accordance with a schedule of charges as specified in the allocation plan.


(iii) *Category C*—With respect only to persons seeking or receiving nursing home services, a person whose annual or family income, as applicable, is more than twice but not greater than three times the poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902 that applies to the individual or family. If persons in Category C are included in the allocation plan, the facility shall provide uncompensated services to these persons without charge, or in accordance with a schedule of charges as specified in the allocation plan; and


(3) Requests services within the facility's allocation plan in effect at the time of the request.


(b) For purposes of determining eligibility for uncompensated services, revisions of the poverty line are effective 60 days from the date of their publication in the _Federal Register._

(c) A person is eligible for uncompensated services if the person's individual or family annual income, as applicable, is at or below the level established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, when calculated by either of the following methods:


(1) Multiplying by four the person's or family's income, as applicable, for the three months preceding the request for uncompensated services;


(2) Using the person's or family's income, as applicable, for the twelve months preceding the request for uncompensated services.



---

[N] [52 FR 46031, Dec. 3, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 16756, Mar. 31, 1995]




