# § 402.2   Definitions.

(a) *Terms defined in part 401.* In this part, the following terms have the meanings given in § 401.2 of this chapter: affiliate, disabled family, elderly family, eligible project, HUD, MAHRA, owner, PAE, Restructuring Plan, and section 8.


(b) *Terms defined in MAHRA.* In this part, the following terms have the meanings given in section 512 of MAHRA: expiration date, fair market rent, renewal, and tenant-based assistance.


(c) *Other defined terms.* In this part, the term—


*Comparable market rents* means rents determined in accordance with section 524(a)(5) of MAHRA and HUD's instructions.


*Large family* means a family of five or more persons.


*OCAF* means an operating cost adjustment factor established by HUD, which may not be negative, that is applied to the existing contract rent (less the portion of that rent paid for debt service).


*Portfolio Reengineering demonstration authority* means the authority specified in section 524(e)(2)(B) of MAHRA.


*Project-based assistance* means the types of assistance listed in section 512(2)(B) of MAHRA, or a project-based assistance contract under the Section 8 program renewed under section 524 of MAHRA.


*Project eligible for exception rents* means a project described in section 524(b) of MAHRA.


*SRO contract* and *SRO project* mean, respectively, a project-based assistance contract for single-room occupancy dwellings under section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), and a project with units covered by such a contract.



---

[N] [71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]




