# § 436.3   Definitions and use of terms.

As used in this part—


*AABD* means aid to the aged, blind, and disabled under title XVI of the Act; 


*AB* means aid to the blind under title X of the Act; 


*AFDC* means aid to families with dependent children under title IV-A of the Act; 


*APTD* means aid to the permanently and totally disabled under title XIV of the Act; 


*Categorically needy* refers to families and children, aged, blind or disabled individuals, and pregnant women listed under subparts B and C of this part who are eligible for Medicaid. Subpart B of this part describes the mandatory eligibility groups who, generally, are receiving or deemed to be receiving cash assistance under the Act. These mandatory groups are specified in sections 1902(a)(10)(A)(i) and 1902(e) of the Act. Subpart C of this part describes the optional eligibility groups of individuals who, generally, meet the categorical requirements that are the same as or less restrictive than those of the cash assistance programs but are not receiving cash payments. These optional groups are specified in sections 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii) and 1902(e) of the Act.


*Families and children* refers to eligible members of families with children who are financially eligible under AFDC or medically needy rules and who are deprived of parental support or care as defined under the AFDC program (see 45 CFR 233.90; 233.100). In addition, this group includes individuals under age 21 who are not deprived of parental support or care but who are financially eligible under AFDC or medically needy rules (see optional coverage group, § 436.222); 


*Medically needy* means families, children, aged, blind, or disabled individuals, and pregnant women listed in subpart D of this part who are not listed in subparts B and C of this part as categorically needy but who may be eligible for Medicaid under this part because their income and resources are within limits set by the State under its Medicaid plan (including persons whose income and resources fall within these limits after their incurred expenses for medical or remedial care are deducted). (Specific financial requirements for determining eligibility of the medically needy appear in subpart I of this part.)


*OAA* means old age assistance under title I of the Act; 


*OASDI* means old age, survivors, and disability insurance under Title II of the Act. 


*Optional targeted low-income child* means a child under age 19 who meets the financial and categorical standards described below. 


(1) *Financial need.* An optional targeted low-income child: 


(i) Has a family income at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty line for a family of the size involved; 


(ii) Resides in a State with no Medicaid applicable income level (as defined in § 457.10 of this chapter); or,


(iii) Resides in a State that has a Medicaid applicable income level (as defined in § 457.10) and has family income that either: 


(A) Exceeds the Medicaid applicable income level for the age of such child, but not by more than 50 percentage points (expressed as a percentage of the Federal poverty line); or 


(B) Does not exceed the income level specified for such child to be eligible for medical assistance under the policies of the State plan under title XIX on June 1, 1997. 


(2) *No other coverage and State maintenance of effort.* An optional targeted low-income child is not covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage, or would not be eligible for Medicaid under the policies of the State plan in effect on March 31, 1997; except that, for purposes of this standard— 


(i) A child shall not be considered to be covered by health insurance coverage based on coverage offered by the State under a program in operation prior to July 1, 1997 if that program received no Federal financial participation; 


(ii) A child shall not be considered to be covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage if the child did not have reasonable geographic access to care under that coverage. 


(3) For purposes of this section, policies of the State plan under title XIX plan include policies under a Statewide demonstration project under section 1115(a) of the Act other than a demonstration project that covered an expanded group of eligible children but that either—


(i) Did not provide inpatient hospital coverage; or 


(ii) Limited eligibility to children previously enrolled in Medicaid, imposed premiums as a condition of initial or continued enrollment, and did not impose a general time limit on eligibility.



---

[N] [43 FR 45218, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 24887, Apr. 11, 1980; 46 FR 47989, Sept. 30, 1981; 58 FR 4934, Jan. 19, 1993; 66 FR 2668, Jan. 11, 2001]




