# ยง 82.19   Definitions.

As used in connection with this subpart, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth in this section. 


*Accredited veterinarian.* A veterinarian approved by the Administrator in accordance with part 161 of this chapter to perform functions specified in subchapters B, C, and D of this chapter. 


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service or any individual authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Bird.* Any member of the class *aves* other than poultry. 


*Chlamydiosis.* A contagious bacterial disease of birds and poultry, characterized by respiratory and systemic infection. The disease is also known as psittacosis in psittacine birds and as ornithosis in poultry. 


*Federal representative.* An individual employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Federal veterinarian.* A veterinarian employed and authorized by the Federal government to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Infected.* Affected by the virus or bacterium that causes the specified disease. 


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State. 


*Moved.* Shipped, transported or otherwise moved, or delivered or received for movement, by any person. 


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or other legal entity. 


*Poultry.* Chickens, doves, ducks, geese, grouse, guinea fowl, partridges, pea fowl, pheasants, pigeons, quail, swans, and turkeys. 


*State.* Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States. 


*State animal health official.* The State official responsible for livestock- and poultry-disease control and eradication programs. 


*State representative.* An individual employed in animal health work and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. 


*Veterinarian in charge.* A Federal veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and authorized by the Administrator to supervise and manage the animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in a specified area of the United States. 




