# § 10.198   Evidence of country of origin.

(a) *Shipments covered by a formal entry*—(1) *Articles not wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country*—(i) *Declaration.* In a case involving an article covered by a formal entry which is not wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a single beneficiary country, the exporter or other appropriate party having knowledge of the relevant facts in the beneficiary country where the article was produced or last processed shall be prepared to submit directly to the Center director, upon request, a declaration setting forth all pertinent detailed information concerning the production or manufacture of the article. When requested by the Center director, the declaration shall be prepared in substantially the following form:


(ii) *Retention of records and submission of declaration.* The information necessary for preparation of the declaration shall be retained in the files of the party responsible for its preparation and submission for a period of 5 years. In the event that the Center director requests submission of the declaration during the 5-year period, it shall be submitted by the appropriate party directly to the Center director within 60 days of the date of the request or such additional period as the Center director may allow for good cause shown. Failure to submit the declaration in a timely fashion will result in a denial of duty-free treatment.


(iii) *Value added after final exportation.* In a case in which value is added to an article in a bonded warehouse or in a foreign-trade zone in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or in the U.S. after final exportation of the article from a beneficiary country, in order to ensure compliance with the value requirement under § 10.195(a), the declaration provided for in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall be filed by the importer or consignee with the entry summary as evidence of the country of origin. The declaration shall be properly completed by the party responsible for the addition of such value.


(2) *Merchandise wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary country.* In a case involving merchandise covered by a formal entry which is wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of a single beneficiary country, a statement to that effect shall be included on the commercial invoice provided to Customs.


(b) *Shipments covered by an informal entry.* Although the filing of the declaration provided for in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section will not be required for a shipment covered by an informal entry, the Center director may require such other evidence of country of origin as deemed necessary.


(c) *Verification of documentation.* Any evidence of country of origin submitted under this section shall be subject to such verification as the Center director deems necessary. In the event that the Center director is prevented from obtaining the necessary verification, the Center director may treat the entry as dutiable.



---

[N] [T.D. 94-47, 59 FR 25570, May 17, 1994]




