# ยง 4280.156   Selecting EA and REDA grant applications for award.

Unless otherwise provided for in a _Federal Register_ notice, EA and REDA grant applications will be processed in accordance with this section. EA and REDA grant funding is maintained at the National Office and applications compete for funds only once in a nationwide competition.


(a) *Application competition.* Complete EA and REDA applications received by the Agency by 4:30 p.m. local time on January 31 will be competed against each other. If January 31 falls on a weekend or a Federally observed holiday, the next Federal business day will be considered the last day for receipt of a complete application. Complete applications received after 4:30 p.m. local time on January 31, regardless of the postmark on the application, will be processed in the subsequent fiscal year. Unless otherwise specified in a _Federal Register_ notice, the two highest scoring applications from each State, based on the scoring criteria established under ยง 4280.155, will compete for initial funding. If undersubscribed on eligible applications, the third highest scoring application from each state shall be requested for National Office review and potential competition, ranking and funding, until funds are expended.


(b) *Ranking of applications.* All applications submitted to the National Office under paragraph (a) of this section will be ranked in priority score order. All applications that are ranked and meet the minimum scoring threshold will be considered for selection for funding.


(c) *Selection of applications for funding.* Using the ranking created under paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency will consider the score an application has received compared to the scores of other ranked applications, with higher scoring applications receiving first consideration for funding. If two or more applications score the same and if remaining funds are insufficient to fund each such application, the Agency will distribute the remaining funds to each such application on a pro-rata basis. At its discretion, the Agency may also elect to redirect unused funds into the RES/EEI program or allow any remaining multi-year funds to be carried over to the next fiscal year rather than funding on a pro-rata basis.


(d) *Handling of ranked applications not funded.* Based on the availability of funding, a ranked application submitted for EA or REDA funds may not be funded. Such ranked applications will not be carried forward into the next Federal fiscal year's competition.






