# § 158.630   Terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organisms data requirements table.

(a) *General.* Sections 158.100 through 158.130 describe how to use this table to determine the terrestrial and aquatic nontarget data requirements for a particular pesticide product. Notes that apply to an individual test including specific conditions, qualifications, or exceptions to the designated test are listed in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Use patterns.* (1) The terrestrial use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of terrestrial food crop, terrestrial feed crop, and terrestrial nonfood crop. The aquatic use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of aquatic food crop and aquatic nonfood use patterns. The greenhouse use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of greenhouse food crop and greenhouse nonfood crop. The indoor use pattern includes products classified under the general use patterns of indoor food and indoor nonfood use.


(2) Data are also required for the general use patterns of forestry and residential outdoor use.


(3) In general, for all outdoor end-uses, including turf, the following studies are required: Two avian oral LD_50_, two avian dietary LC_50_, two avian reproduction studies, two freshwater fish LC_50_, one freshwater invertebrate EC_50_, one honeybee acute contact LD_50_, one freshwater fish early-life stage, one freshwater invertebrate life cycle, and three estuarine acute LC_50_/EC_50_ studies — fish, mollusk and invertebrate. All other outdoor residential uses, *i.e.*, gardens and ornamental will not usually require the freshwater fish early-life stage, the freshwater invertebrate life-cycle, and the acute estuarine tests.


(c) *Key.* R = Required; CR = Conditionally required; NR = Not required; TGAI = Technical grade of the active ingredient; TEP = Typical end-use product; PAI = Pure active ingredient; EP = end-use product. Commas between the test substances (*i.e.*, TGAI, TEP) indicate that data may be required on the TGAI or the TEP depending on the conditions set forth in the test note.


(d) *Table.* The following table shows the data requirements for nontarget terrestrial and aquatic organism. The table notes are shown in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Test notes.* The following test notes apply to terrestrial and aquatic nontarget organisms data requirements in the table to paragraph (d) of this section:


