# § 335.801   Inapplicable SEC regulations; FDIC substituted regulations; additional information.

(a) *Filing fees.* Filing fees will not be charged relative to any filings or submissions of materials made with the FDIC pursuant to the cross reference to regulations of the SEC issued under sections 10A(m), 12, 13, 14, and 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78), sections 302, 303, 304, 306, 401(b), 404, 406, and 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7241, 7242, 7243, 7244, 7261, 7262, 7264, and 7265), and this part.


(b) *Electronic filings.* (1) The FDIC does not participate in the SEC's EDGAR (Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval) electronic filing program (17 CFR part 232). The FDIC permits voluntary electronically transmitted filings and submissions of correspondence and other materials in electronic format to the FDIC, with the exception of Beneficial Ownership Reports (Forms 3, 4, and 5) for which electronic filing is mandatory. Beneficial Ownership Report filing requirements are provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) All reporting persons must electronically file Beneficial Ownership Reports (FDIC Forms 3, 4, and 5), including amendments and exhibits thereto, using the Internet-based interagency Beneficial Ownership Filings System, except that a reporting person that has obtained a continuing hardship exemption under these rules may file the forms with the FDIC in paper format. For electronic filing purposes, FDIC Forms 3, 4, and 5 are accessible at the Internet-based interagency Web site for Beneficial Ownership Filings at FDIC*connect* at *https://www2.fdicconnect.gov/index.asp.* These forms and the instructions thereto are available for printing and downloading at *http://www.fdic.gov/regulations/laws/forms.* A reporting person that has obtained a continuing hardship exemption under these rules may file the appropriate forms with the FDIC in paper format. Instructions for continuing hardship exemptions are provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.


(3) Electronic filings of FDIC beneficial ownership report Forms 3, 4, and 5 must be submitted to the FDIC through the interagency Beneficial Ownership Filings system. Beneficial ownership reports and any amendments are deemed filed with the FDIC upon electronic receipt on business days from 8 a.m. through 10 p.m., Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever is currently in effect (Eastern Time). Business days include each day, except Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays. All filings submitted electronically to the FDIC commencing after 10 p.m. Eastern Time on business days shall be deemed filed as of 8 a.m. on the following business day. All filings submitted electronically to the FDIC on non-business days shall be deemed filed as of 8 a.m. on the following business day.


(4) *Adjustment of the filing date.* If an electronic filer in good faith attempts to file a beneficial ownership report with the FDIC in a timely manner but the filing is delayed due to technical difficulties beyond the electronic filer's control, the electronic filer may request an adjustment of the filing date of such submission. The FDIC may grant the request if it appears that such adjustment is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors.


(5) *Exhibits.* (i) Exhibits to an electronic filing that have not previously been filed with the FDIC shall be filed in electronic format, absent a hardship exemption.


(ii) Previously filed exhibits, whether in paper or electronic format, may be incorporated by reference into an electronic filing to the extent permitted by applicable SEC rules under the Exchange Act. An electronic filer may, at its option, restate in electronic format an exhibit incorporated by reference that originally was filed in paper format.


(iii) Any document filed in paper format in violation of mandated electronic filing requirements shall not be incorporated by reference into an electronic filing.


(6) *Continuing Hardship Exemption.* The FDIC will not accept in paper format any beneficial ownership report filing required to be submitted electronically under this part unless the filer satisfies the requirements for a continuing hardship exemption:


(i) A filer may apply in writing for a continuing hardship exemption if all or part of a filing or group of filings otherwise required to be filed in electronic format cannot be so filed without undue burden or expense. Such written application shall be made at least ten business days prior to the required due date of the filing(s) or the proposed filing date, as appropriate, or within such shorter period as may be permitted. The written application shall be sent to the Accounting and Securities Disclosure Section, Division of Risk Management Supervision, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429, and shall contain the information set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.


(A) The application shall not be deemed granted until the applicant is notified by the FDIC.


(B) If the FDIC denies the application for a continuing hardship exemption, the filer shall file the required document in electronic format on the required due date or the proposed filing date or such other date as may be permitted.


(C) If the FDIC determines that the grant of the exemption is appropriate and consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors and so notifies the applicant, the filer shall follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.


(ii) The request for the continuing hardship exemption shall include, but not be limited to, the following:


(A) The reason(s) that the necessary hardware and software are not available without unreasonable burden and expense;


(B) The burden and expense involved to employ alternative means to make the electronic submission; and/or


(C) The reasons for not submitting electronically the document or group of documents, as well as justification for the requested time period for the exemption.


(iii) If the request for a continuing hardship exemption is granted, the electronic filer shall submit the document or group of documents for which the exemption is granted in paper format on the required due date specified in the applicable form, rule or regulation, or the proposed filing date, as appropriate. The paper format document(s) shall have placed at the top of page 1, or at the top of an attached cover page, a legend in capital letters: 


(iv) Where a continuing hardship exemption is granted with respect to an exhibit only, the paper format exhibit shall be filed with the FDIC under Form SE (17 CFR part 249). The name of the FDIC shall be substituted for the name of the SEC on the form. Form SE shall be filed as a paper cover sheet to all exhibits to Beneficial Ownership Reports submitted to the FDIC in paper form pursuant to a hardship exemption.


(v) Form SE may be filed with the FDIC up to six business days prior to, or on the date of filing of, the electronic form to which it relates but shall not be filed after such filing date. If a paper exhibit is submitted in this manner, requirements that the exhibit be filed with, provided with, or accompany the electronic filing shall be satisfied. Any requirements as to delivery or furnishing the information to persons other than the FDIC shall not be affected by this section.


(7) *Signatures.* (i) Required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission must be in typed form. When used in connection with an electronic filing, the term “signature” means an electronic entry or other form of computer data compilation of any letters or series of letters or characters comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature.


(ii) Each signatory to an electronic filing shall manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing. Such document shall be executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made and shall be retained by the filer for a period of five years. Upon request, an electronic filer shall furnish to the FDIC a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this section.


(iii) Where the FDIC's rules require a filer to furnish a national securities exchange, a national securities association, a bank, or State savings association, paper copies of a document filed with the FDIC in electronic format, signatures to such paper copies may be in typed form.


(c) *Legal proceedings.* Whenever this part or cross referenced provisions of the SEC regulations require disclosure of legal proceedings, administrative or judicial proceedings arising under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act shall be deemed material and shall be described.


(d) *Indebtedness of management.* Whenever this part of cross referenced provisions of the SEC regulations require disclosure of indebtedness of management, extensions of credit to specified persons in excess of ten (10) percent of the equity capital accounts of the bank or State savings association or $5 million, whichever is less, shall be deemed material and shall be disclosed in addition to any other required disclosure. The disclosure of this material indebtedness shall include the largest aggregate amount of indebtedness (in dollar amounts, and as a percentage of total equity capital accounts at the time), including extensions of credit or overdrafts, endorsements and guarantees outstanding at any time since the beginning of the bank or State savings association's last fiscal year, and as of the latest practicable date.


(1) If aggregate extensions of credit to all specified persons as a group exceeded 20 percent of the equity capital accounts of the bank or State savings association at any time since the beginning of the last fiscal year, the aggregate amount of such extensions of credit shall also be disclosed.


(2) Other loans are deemed material and shall be disclosed where:


(i) The extension(s) of credit was not made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates, collateral and repayment terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other than the specified persons;


(ii) The extension(s) of credit was not made in the ordinary course of business; or


(iii) The extension(s) of credit has involved or presently involves more than a normal risk of collectibility or other unfavorable features including the restructuring of an extension of credit, or a delinquency as to payment of interest or principal.


(e) *Proxy material required to be filed.* (1) Three preliminary copies of each information statement, proxy statement, form of proxy, and other item of soliciting material to be furnished to security holders concurrently therewith, shall be filed with the FDIC by the bank, State savings association, or any other person making a solicitation subject to 12 CFR 335.401 at least ten calendar days (or 15 calendar days in the case of other than routine meetings, as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) prior to the date such item is first sent or given to any security holders, or such shorter date as may be authorized. 


(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), a routine meeting means:


(i) A meeting with respect to which no one is soliciting proxies subject to 12 CFR 335.401 other than on behalf of the bank or State savings association and at which the bank or State savings association intends to present no matters other than:


(A) The election of directors;


(B) The election, approval or ratification of accountants;


(C) A Security holder proposal included pursuant to SEC Rule 14(a)-8 (17 CFR 240.14a-8); and


(D) The approval or ratification of a plan as defined in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of Item 402 of SEC Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.402(a)(7)(ii)) or amendments to such a plan; and


(ii) The bank or State savings association does not comment upon or refer to a solicitation in opposition (as defined in 17 CFR 240.14a-6) in connection with the meeting in its proxy material.


(3) Where preliminary copies of material are filed with the FDIC under this section, the printing of definitive copies for distribution to security holders should be deferred until the comments of the FDIC's staff have been received and considered.


(f) *Additional information; filing of other statements in certain cases.* (1) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in a statement, form, schedule or report, there shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.


(2) The FDIC may, upon the written request of the bank or State savings association, and where consistent with the protection of investors, permit the omission of one or more of the statements or disclosures herein required, or the filing in substitution therefor of appropriate statements or disclosures of comparable character.


(3) The FDIC may also require the filing of other statements or disclosures in addition to, or in substitution for those herein required in any case where such statements are necessary or appropriate for an adequate presentation of the financial condition of any person whose financial statements are required, or disclosure about which is otherwise necessary for the protection of investors. 



---

[N] [62 FR 6856, Feb. 14, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 19088, Apr. 12, 2004; 69 FR 59783, Oct. 6, 2004; 70 FR 16400, Mar. 31, 2005; 70 FR 44273, Aug. 2, 2005; 75 FR 73951, Nov. 30, 2010; 79 FR 63501, Oct. 24, 2014]




