# ยง 772.5   Definitions.

*Benefited receptor.* The recipient of an abatement measure that receives a noise reduction at or above the minimum threshold of 5 dB(A), but not to exceed the highway agency's reasonableness design goal.


*Common Noise Environment.* A group of receptors within the same Activity Category in Table 1 that are exposed to similar noise sources and levels; traffic volumes, traffic mix, and speed; and topographic features. Generally, common noise environments occur between two secondary noise sources, such as interchanges, intersections, cross-roads.


*Date of public knowledge.* The date of approval of the Categorical Exclusion (CE), the Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI), or the Record of Decision (ROD), as defined in 23 CFR part 771.


*Design year.* The future year used to estimate the probable traffic volume for which a highway is designed.


*Existing noise levels.* The worst noise hour resulting from the combination of natural and mechanical sources and human activity usually present in a particular area.


*Feasibility.* The combination of acoustical and engineering factors considered in the evaluation of a noise abatement measure.


*Impacted Receptor.* The recipient that has a traffic noise impact.


*L10.* The sound level that is exceeded 10 percent of the time (the 90th percentile) for the period under consideration, with L10(h) being the hourly value of L10.


*Leq.* The equivalent steady-state sound level which in a stated period of time contains the same acoustic energy as the time-varying sound level during the same time period, with Leq(h) being the hourly value of Leq.


*Multifamily dwelling.* A residential structure containing more than one residence. Each residence in a multifamily dwelling shall be counted as one receptor when determining impacted and benefited receptors.


*Noise barrier.* A physical obstruction that is constructed between the highway noise source and the noise sensitive receptor(s) that lowers the noise level, including stand alone noise walls, noise berms (earth or other material), and combination berm/wall systems.


*Noise reduction design goal.* The optimum desired dB(A) noise reduction determined from calculating the difference between future build noise levels with abatement, to future build noise levels without abatement. The noise reduction design goal shall be at least 7 dB(A), but not more than 10 dB(A).


*Permitted.* A definite commitment to develop land with an approved specific design of land use activities as evidenced by the issuance of a building permit.


*Property owner.* An individual or group of individuals that holds a title, deed, or other legal documentation of ownership of a property or a residence.


*Reasonableness.* The combination of social, economic, and environmental factors considered in the evaluation of a noise abatement measure.


*Receptor.* A discrete or representative location of a noise sensitive area(s), for any of the land uses listed in Table 1.


*Residence.* A dwelling unit. Either a single family residence or each dwelling unit in a multifamily dwelling.


*Statement of likelihood.* A statement provided in the environmental clearance document based on the feasibility and reasonableness analysis completed at the time the environmental document is being approved.


*Substantial construction.* The granting of a building permit, prior to right-of-way acquisition or construction approval for the highway.


*Substantial noise increase.* One of two types of highway traffic noise impacts. For a Type I project, an increase in noise levels of 5 to 15 dB(A) in the design year over the existing noise level.


*Traffic noise impacts.* Design year build condition noise levels that approach or exceed the NAC listed in Table 1 for the future build condition; or design year build condition noise levels that create a substantial noise increase over existing noise levels.


*Type I project.* (1) The construction of a highway on new location; or,


(2) The physical alteration of an existing highway where there is either:


(i) Substantial Horizontal Alteration. A project that halves the distance between the traffic noise source and the closest receptor between the existing condition to the future build condition; or,


(ii) Substantial Vertical Alteration. A project that removes shielding therefore exposing the line-of-sight between the receptor and the traffic noise source. This is done by either altering the vertical alignment of the highway or by altering the topography between the highway traffic noise source and the receptor; or,


(3) The addition of a through-traffic lane(s). This includes the addition of a through-traffic lane that functions as a HOV lane, High-Occupancy Toll (HOT) lane, bus lane, or truck climbing lane; or,


(4) The addition of an auxiliary lane, except for when the auxiliary lane is a turn lane; or,


(5) The addition or relocation of interchange lanes or ramps added to a quadrant to complete an existing partial interchange; or,


(6) Restriping existing pavement for the purpose of adding a through-traffic lane or an auxiliary lane; or,


(7) The addition of a new or substantial alteration of a weigh station, rest stop, ride-share lot or toll plaza.


(8) If a project is determined to be a Type I project under this definition then the entire project area as defined in the environmental document is a Type I project.


*Type II project.* A Federal or Federal-aid highway project for noise abatement on an existing highway. For a Type II project to be eligible for Federal-aid funding, the highway agency must develop and implement a Type II program in accordance with section 772.7(e).


*Type III project.* A Federal or Federal-aid highway project that does not meet the classifications of a Type I or Type II project. Type III projects do not require a noise analysis.




