# ยง 400.12   Adverse determinations concerning State grants.

(a) *Policy.* The Secretary has established a Departmental Grant Appeals Board for the purpose of reviewing and providing hearings on post-award disputes which may arise in the administration of certain grant programs by constituent agencies of HHS. Section 16.3(c) of this title mandates an appellant to exhaust any preliminary appeal process required by regulation before a formal appeal to the Board will be allowed. Paragraph (d) of this section provides an informal preliminary appeal process for resolution of such disputes within ORR prior to appeal to the Board.


(b) *Scope.* Adverse determinations to which this procedure is applicable are as follows:


(1) Termination, in whole or in part, of a grant for failure of the grantee to carry out its approved project or program in accordance with applicable law and the terms and conditions of such assistance or for failure of the grantee otherwise to comply with any law, regulation, assurance, term, or condition applicable to the grant. 


(2) A determination that an expenditure not allowable under the grant has been charged to the grant or that the grantee has otherwise failed to discharge its obligation to account for grant funds. 


(3) The disapproval of a grantee's written request for permission to incur an expenditure during the term of a grant.


(4) A determination that a grant is void because the award was obtained fraudulently, or was otherwise illegal or invalid from inception. 


(c) *Notice of adverse determination.* If the Director, or his or her designee, makes an adverse determination with respect to a grant, he or she shall promptly issue a notice of adverse determination to the State which contains the reasons for the determination in sufficient detail to enable the State agency to respond and informing the State agency of the opportunity for review under paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Request for review of an adverse determination.* (1) If the State agency wants a review of the determination, it must submit a request for such review to the Director no later than 30 days after the postmark on the notice, unless an extension of time is granted for good cause. 


(2) The request for review must contain a full statement of the State's position with respect to the determination being appealed and the pertinent facts and reasons in support of such position. The State agency must attach to the submission a copy of the notice.


(3) The Director may, at his or her discretion, invite the State to discuss pertinent issues and to submit such additional information as he or she deems appropriate.


(4) Based on his or her review, the Director will send a written response to the State. If the response is adverse to the State's position, the correspondence shall state the State's right to appeal to the Departmental Grant Appeals Board, pursuant to part 16 of this title.


(e) *Request for appeal of an adverse determination.* (1) To appeal an adverse determination, a State agency must file an appeal with the Departmental Grant Appeals Board, in accordance with requirements contained in part 16 of this title.


(2) The State's application for review must be postmarked no later than 30 days after the postmark on the Director's response to the State's request for review in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.



---

[N] [51 FR 3914, Jan. 30, 1986]




