# ยง 989.213   Maturity dockage.

(a) *General.* Subject to prior agreement between handler and tenderer, Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins containing from 35.0 percent through 49.9 percent, by weight, of well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system. Provided, That, for the 2023-2024 crop year, such raisins containing from 30.0 through 49.9 percent, by weight, of well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins may be acquired by a handler under a weight dockage system. The creditable weight of each lot of raisins acquired under the maturity dockage system shall be obtained by multiplying the net weight of the lot of raisins by the applicable dockage factor from the dockage table prescribed in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section.


(b) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 45.0 percent through 49.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:


(c) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 40.0 percent through 44.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:


(d) Maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 35.0 percent through 39.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:


(e) For the 2023-2024 crop year, maturity dockage table applicable to lots of Natural (sun-dried) Seedless, Golden Seedless, Dipped Seedless, Monukka, Other Seedless, and Other Seedless-Sulfured raisins which contain 30.0 percent through 34.9 percent well-matured or reasonably well-matured raisins:



---

[N] [25 FR 12813, Dec. 14, 1960; 27 FR 2506, Mar. 16, 1962, as amended at 52 FR 32776, Aug. 31, 1987; 53 FR 34715, Sept. 8, 1988; 53 FR 49296, Dec. 7, 1988; 54 FR 43041, Oct. 20, 1989; 63 FR 56785, Oct. 23, 1998; 67 FR 36792, May 28, 2002; 68 FR 42947, July 21, 2003; 88 FR 85824, Dec. 11, 2023]




