# ยง 1002.10   Camping and food storage.

(a) The Board may require permits, designate sites or areas, and establish conditions for camping.


(b) The following are prohibited:


(1) Digging or leveling the ground at a campsite.


(2) Leaving camping equipment, site alterations, or refuse after departing from the campsite.


(3) Camping within 25 feet of a water hydrant or main road, or within 100 feet of a flowing stream, river or body of water, except as designated.


(4) Creating or sustaining unreasonable noise between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., considering the nature and purpose of the actor's conduct, impact on visitors or tenants, location, and other factors which would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under the circumstances.


(5) The installation of permanent camping facilities.


(6) Displaying wildlife carcasses or other remains or parts thereof.


(7) Connecting to a utility system, except as designated.


(8) Failing to obtain a permit, where required.


(9) Violating conditions which may be established by the Board.


(10) Camping outside of designated sites or areas.


(c) Violation of the terms and conditions of a permit issued in accordance with this section is prohibited and may result in the suspension or revocation of the permit.


(d) *Food storage.* The Board may designate all or a portion of the area administered by the Presidio Trust where food, lawfully taken fish or wildlife, garbage, and equipment used to cook or store food must be kept sealed in a vehicle, or in a camping unit that is constructed of solid, non-pliable material, or suspended at least 10 feet above the ground and 4 feet horizontally from a post, tree trunk, or other object, or shall be stored as otherwise designated. Violation of this restriction is prohibited. This restriction does not apply to food that is being transported, consumed, or prepared for consumption.




