# § 512.454   Distribution arrangements.

(a) *General.* (1) An IOTA collaborator may distribute all or a portion of any gainsharing payment it receives from the IOTA participant only in accordance with a distribution arrangement, as defined at § 512.402.


(2) All distribution arrangements must comply with the provisions of this section and all other applicable laws and regulations, including the fraud and abuse laws.


(b) *Requirements.* (1) All distribution arrangements must be in writing and signed by the parties, contain the date of the agreement, and be entered into before care is furnished to attributed patients under the distribution arrangement.


(2) Participation in a distribution arrangement must be voluntary and without penalty for nonparticipation.


(3) The distribution arrangement must require the collaboration agent to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.


(4) The opportunity to make or receive a distribution payment must not be conditioned directly or indirectly on the volume or value of referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the IOTA participant, any IOTA collaborator, any collaboration agent, or any individual or entity affiliated with an IOTA participant, IOTA collaborator, or collaboration agent.


(5) The amount of any distribution payments from an NPPGP to an NPPGP member, or from a TGP to a TGP member must be determined in accordance with a methodology that is substantially based on contribution to performance across the achievement domain, efficiency domain, and quality domain and the provision of IOTA activities and that may take into account the amount of such IOTA activities provided by a collaboration agent relative to other collaboration agents.


(6) The amount of any distribution payments from a PGP must be determined either in a manner that complies with § 411.352(g) of this chapter or in accordance with a methodology that is substantially based on contribution to performance across the achievement domain, efficiency domain and quality domain and the provision of IOTA activities and that may take into account the amount of such IOTA activities provided by a collaboration agent relative to other collaboration agents.


(7) Except for a distribution payment from a PGP to a PGP member that complies with § 411.352(g) of this chapter, a collaboration agent is eligible to receive a distribution payment only if the collaboration agent furnished or billed for an item or service rendered to an attributed patient that occurred during the same PY for which the IOTA participant earned the upside risk payment that comprises the gainsharing payment being distributed.


(8) Except for a distribution payment from a PGP to a PGP member that complies with § 411.352(g) of this chapter, the total amount of distribution payments for a PY paid to a collaboration agent must not exceed 50 percent of the total Medicare-approved amounts under the PFS for items and services billed by that PGP, NPPGP or TGP for items and services furnished by PGP members, NPPGP members or TGP members respectively to attributed patients that occurred during the same PY for which the IOTA participant earned the upside risk payment that comprises the gainsharing payment being distributed.


(9) With respect to the distribution of any gainsharing payment received by a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP, the total amount of all distribution payments must not exceed the amount of the gainsharing payment received by the IOTA collaborator from the IOTA participant.


(10) All distribution payments must be made by check, electronic funds transfer, or another traceable cash transaction.


(11) The collaboration agent must retain the ability to make decisions in the best interests of the patient, including the selection of devices, supplies, and treatments.


(12) The distribution arrangement must not—


(i) Induce the collaboration agent to reduce or limit medically necessary items and services to any Medicare beneficiary; or


(ii) Reward the provision of items and services that are medically unnecessary.


(13) The IOTA collaborator must maintain contemporaneous documentation regarding distribution arrangements in accordance with § 512.454, including the following:


(i) The relevant written agreements.


(ii) The date and amount of any distribution payment(s).


(iii) The identity of each collaboration agent that received a distribution payment.


(iv) A description of the methodology and accounting formula for determining the amount of any distribution payment.


(14) The IOTA collaborator may not enter into a distribution arrangement with any collaboration agent that has a sharing arrangement with the same IOTA participant.


(15) The IOTA collaborator must retain and provide access to and must require collaboration agents to retain and provide access to, the required documentation in accordance with § 512.460.






