# ยง 3550.58   Ownership requirements.

After the loan is closed, the borrower must have an acceptable interest in the property as evidenced by one of the following. 


(a) *Fee-simple ownership.* Acceptable fee-simple ownership is evidenced by a fully marketable title with a deed vesting a fee-simple interest in the property to the borrower. 


(b) *Secure leasehold interest.* A written lease is required. To be acceptable, a leasehold interest must have an unexpired term that is at least 150 percent of the term of the mortgage, unless the loan is guaranteed, in which case the unexpired term of the lease must be at least 2 years longer than the loan term. In no case may the unexpired term be less than 25 years. 


(c) *Life estate interest.* To be acceptable a life estate interest must provide the borrower with rights of present possession, control, and beneficial use of the property. Generally, persons with any remainder interests must be signatories to the mortgage. All of the remainder interests need not be included in the mortgage to the extent that one or more of the persons holding remainder interests are not legally competent (and there is no representative who can legally consent to the mortgage), cannot be located, or if the remainder interests are divided among such a large number of people that it is not practical to obtain the signatures of all of the remainder interests. In such cases, the loan may not exceed the value of the property interests owned by the persons executing the mortgage. 


(d) *Undivided interest.* All legally competent co-owners will be required to sign the mortgage. When one or more of the co-owners are not legally competent (and there is no representative who can legally consent to the mortgage), cannot be located, or the ownership interests are divided among so large a number of co- owners that it is not practical for all of their interests to be mortgaged, their interests not exceeding 50 percent may be excluded from the security requirements. In such cases, the loan may not exceed the value of the property interests owned by the persons executing the mortgage. 


(e) *Possessory rights.* Acceptable forms of ownership include possessory rights on an American Indian reservation or State-owned land and the interest of an American Indian in land held in severalty under trust patents or deeds containing restrictions against alienation, provided that land in trust or restricted status will remain in trust or restricted status. 




