# ยง 41.83   Penalties and forfeiture for products labeled or shipped for export.

Except for the return of exported products that are specifically authorized under ยง 41.82(b) and (c):


(a) Every person who sells, relands, or receives within the jurisdiction of the United States any tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes which have been labeled or shipped for exportation under parts 40 and 44 of this chapter;


(b) Every person who sells or receives such relanded tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes; and,


(c) Every person who aids or abets in such selling, relanding, or receiving, shall, in addition to the tax and any other penalty provided for in title 26 U.S.C., be liable for a penalty equal to the greater of $1,000 or 5 times the amount of the tax imposed by title 26 U.S.C. All tobacco products and cigarette papers and tubes relanded within the jurisdiction of the United States shall be forfeited to the United States and destroyed. All vessels, vehicles and aircraft used in such relanding or in removing such products, papers, and tubes from the place where relanded, shall be forfeited to the United States.


(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to any person who, when entering U.S. manufactured tobacco products labeled for export, claims and is granted an exemption from duty and tax for such products under chapter 98 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. The quantity of tobacco products entered may not exceed the quantity limit imposed on such products under the applicable tariff provision. A traveler claiming an exemption under this subsection upon arrival at the border may voluntarily relinquish to U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the time of entry any excess of such quantity without incurring the penalty under this section.


(e) For purposes of this section, references to exportation shall be treated as including a reference to shipment to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-465, 66 FR 45619, Aug. 29, 2001. Redesignated and amended by T.D. TTB-16, 69 FR 52424, 52425, Aug. 26, 2004; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87947, Nov. 6, 2024]






