# ยง 801.2   Definitions.

For purposes of the Act and for reporting requirements under this part:


(a) *United States,* when used in a geographic sense, means the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and all territories and possessions of the United States.


(b) *Foreign,* when used in a geographic sense, means that which is situated outside the United States or which belongs to or is characteristic of a country other than the United States.


(c) *Person* means any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a State or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency).


(d) *United States person* means any person resident in the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.


(e) *Foreign person* means any person resident outside the United States or subject to the jurisdiction of a country other than the United States.


(f) *Business enterprise* means any organization, association, branch, or venture which exists for profit-making purposes or to otherwise secure economic advantage, and any ownership of any real estate.


(g) *Services* are economic activities whose outputs are other than tangible goods. This term includes, but is not limited to, banking, other financial services, insurance, transportation, communications and data processing, retail and wholesale trade, advertising, accounting, construction, design, engineering, management consulting, real estate, professional services, entertainment, education, and health care.


(h) *International investment* means:


(1) The ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by contractual commitment or otherwise, by foreign persons of any interest in property in the United States, or of stock, other securities, or short- and long-term debt obligations of a United States person; and


(2) The ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by contractual commitment or otherwise, by United States persons of any interest in property outside the United States, or of stock, other securities, or short- and long-term debt obligations of a foreign person.


(i) *Direct investment* means the ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by one person of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated business enterprise or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated business enterprise.




