# § 1603.3   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Days* means calendar days, except where noted otherwise. 


(b) *General Counsel* means the Board's principal legal officer, or a CSB attorney serving as Acting General Counsel. 


(c) *Meeting* means the deliberations of at least a quorum of Members where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official CSB business, and includes conference telephone calls or other exchanges otherwise coming within the definition. A meeting does not include: 


(1) Notation voting or similar consideration of business, whether by circulation of material to the Members individually in writing or by a polling of the Members individually by telephone. 


(2) Action by at least a quorum of Members to: 


(i) Open or to close a meeting or to release or to withhold information pursuant to § 1603.7; 


(ii) Set an agenda for a proposed meeting(s); 


(iii) Call a meeting on less than seven days' notice as permitted by § 1603.9(b); or 


(iv) Change the subject matter or the determination to open or to close a publicly announced meeting under § 1603.10(b). 


(3) A session attended by at least a quorum of Members for the purpose of having the Board's staff or expert consultants to the Board brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official CSB business on such matters. 


(4) A session attended by at least a quorum of Members for the purpose of having the Environmental Protection Agency or Occupational Safety and Health Administration (including contractors of those agencies) or other persons or organizations brief or otherwise provide information to the Board concerning any matters within the purview of the Board under its authorizing statute, provided that the Board does not engage in deliberations that determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official CSB business on such matters. 


(5) A gathering of Members for the purpose of holding informal preliminary discussions or exchange of views which do not effectively predetermine official action. 


(d) *Member* means an individual duly appointed and confirmed to the collegial body known as the Board. 


(e) *Reporter* means a CSB employee designated by the General Counsel, under § 1603.5(c), to attend and prepare a written summary of all briefings described in paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section and all informal preliminary discussions described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. 


(f) *Sunshine Act* means the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b. 




