# ยง 302.18   DOT decisionmaker.

(a) *Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs is the DOT decisionmaker. The Assistant Secretary shall have all of the powers set forth in ยง 302.17(a)(1) and those additional powers delegated by the Secretary. The Assistant Secretary may delegate this authority in appropriate non-hearing cases to subordinate officials. 


(b) *Oral hearing cases assigned to the senior career official.* Carrier selection proceedings for international route authority that are set for oral hearing and such other oral hearing cases as the Secretary deems appropriate will be assigned to the senior career official in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, who will serve as the DOT decisionmaker. In all such cases, the administrative law judge shall render a recommended decision to the senior career official, who shall have all of the powers set forth in ยง 302.17(a)(1) and those additional powers delegated by the Secretary. 


(1) Decisions of the senior career official are subject to review by, and at the discretion of, the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. Petitions for discretionary review of decisions of the senior career official will not be entertained. A notice of review by the Assistant Secretary will establish the procedures for review. Unless a notice of review is issued, the decision of the senior career official will be issued as a final decision of the Department and will be served fourteen (14) days after it is adopted by the senior career official. 


(2) Final decisions of the senior career official may be reviewed upon a petition for reconsideration filed pursuant to ยง 302.14. Such a petition shall state clearly the basis for requesting reconsideration and shall specify any questions of national transportation policy that may be involved. The Assistant Secretary will either grant or deny the petition. 


(3) Upon review or reconsideration, the Assistant Secretary may either affirm the decision or remand the decision to the senior career official for further action consistent with such order of remand. 


(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, final decisions of the senior career official will be transmitted to the President of the United States when required under 49 U.S.C. 41307. 


(c) *Secretary and Deputy Secretary.* The Secretary or Deputy Secretary may exercise any authority of the Assistant Secretary whenever he or she believes a decision involves important questions of national transportation policy. 




