# § 134.201   Scope of the rules in this subpart.

(a) The rules of practice in this subpart apply to all OHA proceedings except:


(1) Where another subpart of this part, pertaining to a specific type of OHA proceeding, provides a different rule; or


(2) Where another part of this chapter, pertaining to a specific type of OHA proceeding (or SBA program allowing appeals to OHA), provides a different rule (see § 134.102).


(b) For specific types of OHA proceedings, the rules of practice are located as follows:


(1) For appeals from size determinations and NAICS code designations, in subpart C of this part (§ 134.301 *et seq.*);


(2) For 8(a) BD appeals, in subpart D of this part (§ 134.401 *et seq.*);


(3) [Reserved]


(4) For applications under the Equal Access to Justice Act, in subpart F of this part (§ 134.601 *et seq.*);


(5) For appeals from Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) and Economically-Disadvantaged WOSB protest determinations, in subpart G of this part (§ 134.701 *et seq.*);


(6) For appeals relating to SBA employee disputes, in subpart H of this part (§ 134.801 *et seq.*);


(7) For Size Standard Petitions, in subpart I of this part (§§ 134.901 *through* 134.918); 


(8) For protests of eligibility for inclusion in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program, in subpart J of this part;


(9) For appeals of denials of certification and decertification in the Veteran Small Business Certification Program, in subpart K of this part;


(10) For appeals of protest determinations regarding the status of a concern as a certified HUBZone small business concern, in subpart M of this part; and


(11) For proceedings under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, in part 142 of this chapter.


(c) If a rule in this subpart conflicts with a rule pertaining to OHA in another subpart of this part or in another part of this chapter, the latter rule shall govern.



---

[N] [75 FR 47438, Aug. 6, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 25506, June 2, 2017; 83 FR 13629, Mar. 30, 2018; 87 FR 73425, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 21089, Apr. 10, 2023]




