# ยง 20.40   Filing a request for records.

(a) All requests for Food and Drug Administration records shall be made in writing by mailing or delivering the request to the Freedom of Information Staff at the address on the Agency's website at *https://www.fda.gov,* by faxing it to the fax number listed on the Agency's website at *https://www.fda.gov,* or by submission through the Agency's online FOIA submission portal at *https://www.fda.gov.* All requests must contain the postal address and telephone number of the requester and the name of the person responsible for payment of any fees that may be charged.


(b) A request for Food and Drug Administration records shall reasonably describe the records being sought, in a way that they can be identified and located. A request should include all pertinent details that will help identify the records sought.


(1) If the description is insufficient to locate the records requested, the Food and Drug Administration will so notify the person making the request and indicate the additional information needed to identify the records requested.


(2) Every reasonable effort shall be made by the Food and Drug Administration to assist in the identification and location of the records sought.


(c) Upon receipt of a request for records, the Division of Freedom of Information shall enter it in a public log. The log shall state the date received, the name of the person making the request, the nature of the record requested, the action taken on the request, the date of determination letter sent pursuant to ยง 20.41(b), and the date(s) any records are subsequently furnished.


(d) A request by an individual, as defined in ยง 21.3(a) of this chapter, for a record about himself shall be subject to:


(1) The special requirements of part 21 of this chapter (the privacy regulations), and not to the provisions of this subpart, if the record requested is retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier and is contained in a Privacy Act Record System, as defined in ยง 21.3(c) of this chapter.


(2) The provisions of this subpart if the record requested is not retrieved by the individual's name or other personal identifier, whether or not the record is contained in a Privacy Act Record System.



---

[N] [42 FR 15616, Mar. 22, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 8456, Jan. 27, 1981; 68 FR 25285, May 12, 2003; 76 FR 31469, June 1, 2011; 79 FR 68114, Nov. 14, 2014; 87 FR 55912, Sept. 13, 2022]




