# § 21.190   Issue of a special airworthiness certificate for a light-sport category aircraft.

(a) *Purpose.* The FAA issues a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category to operate a light-sport aircraft, other than a gyroplane.


(b) *Eligibility.* To be eligible for a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category:


(1) An applicant must provide the FAA with—


(i) The aircraft's operating instructions;


(ii) The aircraft's maintenance and inspection procedures;


(iii) The manufacturer's statement of compliance as described in paragraph (c) of this section; and


(iv) The aircraft's flight training supplement.


(2) The aircraft must not have been previously issued a standard, primary, restricted, limited, or provisional airworthiness certificate, or an equivalent airworthiness certificate issued by a foreign civil aviation authority.


(3) The aircraft must be inspected by the FAA and found to be in a condition for safe operation.


(c) *Manufacturer's statement of compliance for light-sport category aircraft.* The manufacturer's statement of compliance required in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section must—


(1) Identify the aircraft by make and model, serial number, class, date of manufacture, and consensus standard used;


(2) State that the aircraft meets the provisions of the identified consensus standard;


(3) State that the aircraft conforms to the manufacturer's design data, using the manufacturer's quality assurance system that meets the identified consensus standard;


(4) State that the manufacturer will make available to any interested person the following documents that meet the identified consensus standard:


(i) The aircraft's operating instructions.


(ii) The aircraft's maintenance and inspection procedures.


(iii) The aircraft's flight training supplement.


(5) State that the manufacturer will monitor and correct safety-of-flight issues through the issuance of safety directives and a continued airworthiness system that meets the identified consensus standard;


(6) State that at the request of the FAA, the manufacturer will provide unrestricted access to its facilities; and


(7) State that the manufacturer, in accordance with a production acceptance test procedure that meets an applicable consensus standard has—


(i) Ground and flight tested the aircraft;


(ii) Found the aircraft performance acceptable; and


(iii) Determined that the aircraft is in a condition for safe operation.


(d) *Light-sport aircraft manufactured outside the United States.* For aircraft manufactured outside of the United States to be eligible for a special airworthiness certificate in the light-sport category, an applicant must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and provide to the FAA evidence that—


(1) The aircraft was manufactured in a country with which the United States has a Bilateral Airworthiness Agreement concerning airplanes or Bilateral Aviation Safety Agreement with associated Implementation Procedures for Airworthiness concerning airplanes, or an equivalent airworthiness agreement; and


(2) The aircraft is eligible for an airworthiness certificate, flight authorization, or other similar certification in its country of manufacture.



---

[N] [Amdt. 21-85, 69 FR 44862, July 27, 2004]




