# § 63.1213   How can the compliance date be extended to install pollution prevention or waste minimization controls?

(a) *Applicability.* You may request from the Administrator or State with an approved Title V program an extension of the compliance date of up to one year. An extension may be granted if you can reasonably document that the installation of pollution prevention or waste minimization measures will significantly reduce the amount and/or toxicity of hazardous wastes entering the feedstream(s) of the hazardous waste combustor(s), and that you could not install the necessary control measures and comply with the emission standards and operating requirements of this subpart by the compliance date. 


(b) *Requirements for requesting an extension.* (1) You must make your requests for an (up to) one-year extension in writing in accordance with § 63.6(i)(4)(B) and (C). The request must contain the following information:


(i) A description of pollution prevention or waste minimization controls that, when installed, will significantly reduce the amount and/or toxicity of hazardous wastes entering the feedstream(s) of the hazardous waste combustor(s). Pollution prevention or waste minimization measures may include: equipment or technology modifications, reformulation or redesign of products, substitution of raw materials, improvements in work practices, maintenance, training, inventory control, or recycling practices conducted as defined in § 261.1(c) of this chapter;


(ii) A description of other pollution controls to be installed that are necessary to comply with the emission standards and operating requirements;


(iii) A reduction goal or estimate of the annual reductions in quantity and/or toxicity of hazardous waste(s) entering combustion feedstream(s) that you will achieve by installing the proposed pollution prevention or waste minimization measures;


(iv) A comparison of reductions in the amounts and/or toxicity of hazardous wastes combusted after installation of pollution prevention or waste minimization measures to the amounts and/or toxicity of hazardous wastes combusted prior to the installation of these measures. If the difference is less than a fifteen percent reduction, include a comparison to pollution prevention and waste minimization reductions recorded during the previous five years;


(v) Reasonable documentation that installation of the pollution prevention or waste minimization changes will not result in a net increase (except for documented increases in production) of hazardous constituents released to the environment through other emissions, wastes or effluents;


(vi) Reasonable documentation that the design and installation of waste minimization and other measures that are necessary for compliance with the emission standards and operating requirements of this subpart cannot otherwise be installed within the three year compliance period, and


(vii) The information required in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(B) through (D).


(2) You may enclose documentation prepared under an existing State-required pollution prevention program that contains the information prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section with a request for extension in lieu of complying with the time extension requirements of that paragraph.


(c) *Approval of request for extension of compliance date.* Based on the information provided in any request made under paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator or State with an approved title V program may grant an extension of the compliance date of this subpart. The extension will be in writing in accordance with §§ 63.6(i)(10)(i) through 63.6(i)(10)(v)(A).



---

[N] [57 FR 61992, Dec. 29, 1992, as amended at 67 FR 6994, Feb. 14, 2002; 67 FR 77691, Dec. 19, 2002]




