# § 1355.51   Definitions applicable to Comprehensive Child Welfare Information Systems (CCWIS).

(a)__ The following terms as they appear in §§ 1355.50 through 1355.59 are defined as follows—


*Approved activity* means a project task that supports planning, designing, developing, installing, operating, or maintaining a CCWIS.


*Automated function* means a computerized process or collection of related processes to achieve a purpose or goal.


*Child welfare contributing agency* means a public or private entity that, by contract or agreement with the title IV-E agency, provides child abuse and neglect investigations, placement, or child welfare case management (or any combination of these) to children and families.


*Data exchange* means the automated, electronic submission or receipt of information, or both, between two automated data processing systems.


*Data exchange standard* means the common data definitions, data formats, data values, and other guidelines that the state's or tribe's automated data processing systems follow when exchanging data.


*New CCWIS project* means a project to build an automated data processing system meeting all requirements in § 1355.52 and all automated functions meet the requirements in § 1355.53(a).


*Non-S/TACWIS project* means an active automated data processing system or project that, prior to the effective date of these regulations, ACF had not classified as a S/TACWIS and for which:


(i) ACF approved a development procurement; or


(ii) The applicable state or tribal agency approved a development procurement below the thresholds of 45 CFR 95.611(a); or


(iii) The operational automated data processing system provided the data for at least one AFCARS or NYTD file for submission to the federal system or systems designated by ACF to receive the report.


*Notice of intent* means a record from the title IV-E agency, signed by the governor, tribal leader, or designated state or tribal official and provided to ACF declaring that the title IV-E agency plans to build a CCWIS project that is below the APD approval thresholds of 45 CFR 95.611(a).


*S/TACWIS project* means an active automated data processing system or project that, prior to the effective date of these regulations, ACF classified as a S/TACWIS and for which:


(i) ACF approved a procurement to develop a S/TACWIS; or


(ii) The applicable state or tribal agency approved a development procurement for a S/TACWIS below the thresholds of 45 CFR 95.611(a).


*Transition period* means the 24 months after the effective date of these regulations.


(b) Other terms as they appear in §§ 1355.50 through 1355.59 are defined in 45 CFR 95.605.



---

[N] [81 FR 35479, June 2, 2016]




