# § 110.238   Apra Harbor, Guam.

(a) *The anchorage grounds (Datum: WGS 84)*—(1) *General Anchorage.* The waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(2) *Explosives Anchorage 701.* The water in Naval Anchorage A bounded by the arc of a circle with a radius of 350 yards and located at:


(3) *Naval Explosives Anchorage 702.* The waters in the General Anchorage bounded by the arc of a circle with a radius of 350 yards and with the center located at:


(4) *Naval Anchorage A.* The waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(5) *Naval Anchorage B.* The waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(b) *The regulations*—(1) *General Anchorage.* Any vessel may anchor in the General Anchorage except vessels carrying more than 25 tons of high explosives.


(2) *Explosives Anchorage 701.* Vessels carrying more than 25 tons of high explosives must use Anchorage 701, unless otherwise directed by the Captain of the Port.


(3) *Naval Explosives Anchorage 702.* Except Naval vessels using the anchorage as directed by local Naval authorities, no vessel may anchor so that any part of the hull or rigging, or the anchor tackle may extend into Anchorage 702 at any time.


(4) *Naval Anchorages A and B.* (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, non-naval vessels may not anchor within these anchorages or use the mooring buoys therein without permission of the local Naval authorities obtained through the Captain of the Port. (There is a user charge for the use of these mooring buoys.)


(ii) Small craft that are continuously manned and capable of getting underway may anchor within these anchorages during daylight hours without prior approval of the Captain of the Port.


(5) *General regulations.* (i) Vessels may use the Naval mooring buoys in the General Anchorage without charge for a period up to 72 hours if authorized by the Captain of the Port. Vessels so moored shall promptly move at their own expense upon notification from the Captain of the Port.


(ii) Except for vessels not more than 65 feet in length, all vessels shall anchor in an anchorage ground.


(iii) Vessels anchored in an anchorage ground shall place their anchors within the anchorage ground so that no portion of the hull or rigging at any time extends outside the anchorage ground.


(iv) No vessel may anchor in the harbor for more than 30 consecutive days without permission of the Captain of the Port. 



---

[N] [CDG14-87-02, 52 FR 25864, July 9, 1987, as amended by CGD14-89-01, 55 FR 27465, July 3, 1990]




