# § 1.7520-2   Valuation of charitable interests.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Valuation.* Except as otherwise provided in this section and in § 1.7520-3 (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances), the fair market value of annuities, interests for life or for a term of years, remainders, and reversions for which an income tax charitable deduction is allowable is the present value of such interests determined under § 1.7520-1.


(2) *Prior-month election rule.* If any part of the property interest transferred qualifies for an income tax charitable deduction under section 170(c), the taxpayer may elect (under paragraph (b) of this section) to compute the present value of the interest transferred by use of the section 7520 interest rate for the month during which the interest is transferred or the section 7520 interest rate component for either of the 2 months preceding the month during which the interest is transferred. Paragraph (b) of this section explains how a prior-month election is made. The interest rate for the month so elected is the applicable section 7520 interest rate. If the actuarial factor for either or both of the 2 months preceding the month during which the interest is transferred is based on a mortality experience that is different from the mortality experience at the date of the transfer and if the taxpayer elects to use the section 7520 rate for a prior month with the different mortality experience, the taxpayer must use the actuarial factor derived from the mortality experience in effect during the month of the section 7520 rate elected. All actuarial computations relating to the transfer must be made by applying the interest rate component and the mortality component of the month elected by the taxpayer.


(3) *Transfers of more than one interest in the same property.* If a taxpayer transfers more than one interest in the same property at the same time, for purposes of valuing the transferred interests, the taxpayer must use the same interest rate and mortality component for each interest in the property transferred. If more than one interest in the same property is transferred in two or more separate transfers at different times, the value of each interest is determined by the use of the interest rate component and mortality component in effect during the month of the transfer of that interest or, if applicable under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, either of the two months preceding the month of the transfer.


(4) *Information required with tax return.* The following information must be attached to the income tax return (or to the amended return) if the taxpayer claims a charitable deduction for the present value of a temporary or remainder interest in property—


(i) A complete description of the interest that is transferred, including a copy of the instrument of transfer;


(ii) The valuation date of the transfer;


(iii) The names and identification numbers of the beneficiaries of the transferred interest;


(iv) The names and birthdates of any measuring lives, a description of any relevant terminal illness condition of any measuring life, and (if applicable) an explanation of how any terminal illness condition was taken into account in valuing the interest; and


(v) A computation of the deduction showing the applicable section 7520 interest rate that is used to value the transferred interest.


(5) *Place for filing returns.* See section 6091 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder for the place for filing the return or other document required by this section.


(b) *Election of interest rate component*—(1) *Time for making election.* A taxpayer makes a prior-month election under paragraph (a)(2) of this section by attaching the information described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section to the taxpayer's income tax return or to an amended return for that year that is filed within 24 months after the later of the date the original return for the year was filed or the due date for filing the return.


(2) *Manner of making election.* A statement that the prior-month election under section 7520(a) of the Internal Revenue Code is being made and that identifies the elected month must be attached to the income tax return (or to the amended return).


(3) *Revocability.* The prior-month election may be revoked by filing an amended return within 24 months after the later of the date the original return of tax for the year was filed or the due date for filing the return. The revocation must be filed in the place referred to in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(c) *Effective dates.* Paragraph (a) of this section is effective as of May 1, 1989. Paragraph (b) of this section is effective for elections made after June 10, 1994.



---

[N] [T.D. 8540, 59 FR 30149, June 10, 1994]




