# § 419.44   Payment reductions for procedures.

(a) *Multiple surgical procedures.* When more than one surgical procedure for which payment is made under the hospital outpatient prospective payment system is performed during a single surgical encounter, the Medicare program payment amount and the beneficiary copayment amount are based on— 


(1) The full amounts for the procedure with the highest APC payment rate; and 


(2) One-half of the full program and the beneficiary payment amounts for all other covered procedures. 


(b) *Interrupted procedures*. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, when a procedure is terminated prior to completion due to extenuating circumstances or circumstances that threaten the well-being of the patient, the Medicare program payment amount and the beneficiary copayment amount are based on—


(i) The full program and beneficiary copayment amounts if the procedure for which anesthesia is planned is discontinued after the induction of anesthesia or after the procedure is started;


(ii) One-half the full program and the beneficiary copayment amounts if the procedure for which anesthesia is planned is discontinued after the patient is prepared and taken to the room where the procedure is to be performed but before anesthesia is induced; or


(iii) One-half of the full program and beneficiary copayment amounts if a procedure for which anesthesia is not planned is discontinued after the patient is prepared and taken to the room where the procedure is to be performed.


(2) For all device-intensive procedures (defined as having a device offset of greater than 40 percent), the device offset portion of the device-intensive procedure payment is subtracted prior to determining the program payment and beneficiary copayment amounts identified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [65 FR 18542, Apr. 7, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66933, Nov. 27, 2007; 80 FR 70606, Nov. 13, 2015; 81 FR 79879, Nov. 14, 2016]




