# § 1.529A-6   Reporting of distributions from and termination of an ABLE account.

(a) *In general.* The filer as defined in § 1.529A-5(b)(1) must, with respect to each ABLE account from which any distribution is made or which is terminated during the calendar year—


(1) File an annual information return, as described paragraph (b) of this section, with the Internal Revenue Service; and


(2) Furnish an annual statement, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, to the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account and to each contributor who received a returned contribution in accordance with § 1.529A-2(g)(4) attributable to the calendar year.


(b) *Requirement to file return*—(1) *Form of return.* For purposes of reporting the information in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the filer must file Form 1099-QA, “Distributions From ABLE Accounts,” or any successor form, together with Form 1096, “Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S. Information Returns.”


(2) *Information included on return.* The filer must include on the return—


(i) The name, address, and TIN of the recipient of the payment, whether the designated beneficiary of the ABLE account or any contributor who received a returned contribution in accordance with § 1.529A-2(g)(4) attributable to the calendar year;


(ii) The name, address, and TIN of the filer;


(iii) Whether the return is being filed with respect to the designated beneficiary or to a contributor;


(iv) The aggregate amount of distributions or returned contributions (including net income attributable to the returned contributions) from the ABLE account to the recipient during the calendar year;


(v) Information as to basis and earnings with respect to such distributions or returns of contributions;


(vi) Information regarding termination (if any) of the ABLE account if the recipient is the designated beneficiary;


(vii) Information regarding each program-to-program transfer from the ABLE account during the designated beneficiary's taxable year; and


(viii) Any other information required by the form, its instructions, or published guidance. See §§ 601.601(d) and 601.602 of this chapter.


(3) *Information excluded.* A State filing a claim against the estate or ABLE account of a deceased designated beneficiary with respect to benefits provided to the designated beneficiary under that State's Medicaid plan is a creditor, and not a beneficiary, so the payment of the claim is not a distribution from the ABLE account and should not be reported as such on the Form 1099-QA for that year.


(4) *Time and manner of filing return*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the Forms 1099-QA and 1096 must be filed on or before February 28 (March 31 if filing electronically) of the year following the calendar year with respect to which the return is being filed, in accordance with the forms and their instructions.


(ii) *Extensions of time.* See §§ 1.6081-1 and 1.6081-8 for rules relating to extensions of time to file information returns required in this section.


(iii) *Electronic filing.* See § 301.6011-2 of this chapter for rules relating to electronic filing. See also Instructions for Forms 1099-QA and 5498-QA, Distributions From ABLE Accounts and ABLE Account Contribution Information.


(iv) *Substitute forms.* The filer may file the return required under this paragraph (b) on an acceptable substitute form. See Publication 1179, “General Rules and Specifications for Substitute Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and Certain Other Information Returns.”


(c) *Requirement to furnish statement*—(1) *In general.* The filer must furnish a statement to the designated beneficiary and each contributor (if any) of the ABLE account for which it is required to file a Form 1099-QA (or any successor form). The statement must include—


(i) The information required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(ii) A legend that identifies the statement as important tax information that is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service; and


(iii) The name and address of the office or department of the filer that is the information contact for questions regarding the ABLE account to which the Form 1099-QA relates.


(2) *Time and manner of furnishing statement*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a filer must furnish the statement described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to the designated beneficiary or contributor on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year with respect to which the statement is being furnished. If mailed, the statement must be sent to the recipient's last known address. The statement may be furnished electronically, as provided in § 1.529A-7.


(ii) *Extensions of time.* The Internal Revenue Service may, at its discretion, grant an extension of time to furnish statements required in this section.


(3) *Copy of Form 1099-QA.* A filer may satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (c) by furnishing either a copy of Form 1099-QA (or successor form) or an acceptable substitute form. See Publication 1179, “General Rules and Specifications for Substitute Forms 1096, 1098, 1099, 5498, and Certain Other Information Returns.”


(d) *Request for TIN of contributor(s)*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a filer must request the TIN of each contributor to the ABLE account at the time a contribution is made, if the filer does not already have a record of that person's correct TIN.


(2) *Exception.* If the filer has a system in place to identify and reject amounts that either would constitute an excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution (as defined in § 1.529A-1(b)(9) or (10), respectively) or were contributed to an additional ABLE account as described in § 1.529A-2(c)(3)(ii)(C) (excess amounts) before those excess amounts are deposited into or allocated to an ABLE account, the filer need not request the TIN of each contributor at the time of contribution. A filer with such a system must request a contributor's TIN only if and when an excess contribution or excess aggregate contribution nevertheless is deposited into or allocated to an account and the filer must return the excess amounts including net income to the contributor. The filer must clearly notify each such contributor to the account that the law requires that person to furnish a TIN so that it may be included on an information return to be filed by the filer. The contributor may provide his or her TIN in any manner including orally, in writing, or electronically. If the TIN is furnished in writing, no particular form is required. Form W-9, “Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification,” may be used, or the request may be incorporated into the forms related to the establishment of the ABLE account.


(e) *Penalties*—(1) *Failure to file return.* The section 6693 penalty may apply to a filer that fails to file information returns at the time and in the manner required by this section, unless it is shown that such failure is due to reasonable cause. See section 6693 and § 301.6693-1 of this chapter.


(2) *Failure to furnish TIN.* The section 6723 penalty may apply to any contributor who fails to furnish his or her TIN to the filer in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. See section 6723, and § 301.6723-1 of this chapter, for rules relating to the penalty for failure to furnish a TIN.


(f) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to information returns required to be filed, and payee statements required to be furnished, after December 31, 2020. See § 1.529A-8 for the provision of transition relief.






