# § 10400.7   Responses—form and content.

(a) *Determinations.* (1) In determining which records are responsive to a request, IPEC will include only records that were in its possession as of the date of the search. If any other date is used, IPEC will inform the requester of that date.


(2) Under the FOIA, an agency is to make an initial determination acknowledging and granting, partially granting, or denying a request for records within 20 working days after the agency receives a FOIA request (an agency may extend this period for “unusual circumstances”; *see* § 10400.9). The FOIA Officer or designee will determine whether to grant the request and will provide written notification to the person making the request. The notification shall also advise the person making the request of any fees assessed under §§ 10400.11 through 10400.16. IPEC will inform the requester of the availability of its FOIA Public Liaison.


(b) *Tracking number.* IPEC will assign a request an individualized tracking number if it will take longer than 10 working days to process the request. IPEC may assign, at our discretion, such a tracking number for a request that will take less than 10 working days to process.


(c) *Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.* Upon request, IPEC will provide an estimated date by which IPEC expects to provide a response to the requester. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material, or searches in multiple locations, IPEC may provide interim responses, including on a rolling basis.


(d) *Use of record exclusions.* A record that is excluded from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c) is not considered responsive to a request. In the event that IPEC identifies records that may be subject to exclusion from the requirements of the FOIA pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(c), IPEC will confer with the Department of Justice, Office of Information Policy (OIP), to obtain approval to apply the exclusion, and IPEC will maintain an administrative record of the process of invocation and approval of the exclusion by OIP.


(e) *Adverse determinations.* If IPEC makes an adverse determination denying a request in any respect, it must notify the requester of that determination in writing. Adverse determinations, or denials of requests, include decisions that: the requested record is exempt, in whole or in part; the request does not reasonably describe the records sought; the information requested is not a record subject to the FOIA; the requested record does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or the requested record is not readily reproducible in the form or format sought by the requester. Adverse determinations also include denials involving fees or fee waiver matters or denials of requests for expedited processing.


(f) *Content of denial.* The denial must be signed by the FOIA Officer or designee and must include:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including any FOIA exemption applied by the agency in denying the request;


(3) An estimate of the volume of any records or information withheld, such as the number of pages or some other reasonable form of estimation, although such an estimate is not required if the volume is otherwise indicated by deletions marked on records that are disclosed in part or if providing an estimate would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption;


(4) A statement that the denial may be appealed to the FOIA Appeals Officer (the IPEC Legal Advisor or a designee) within 90 calendar days of the date of the response (the requirements for making an appeal are specified in § 10400.10); and


(5) A statement notifying the requester of the assistance available from the IPEC's FOIA Public Liaison and the dispute resolution services offered by OGIS.






