# § 110.132   Rockland Harbor, Maine.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Anchorage A.* Beginning at a point bearing 158°, 1,075 yards, from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 252°, 2,020 yards, to a point bearing 224° from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 345°, 740 yards, to a point bearing 242° from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 72°, 1,300 yards, to a point bearing 222° from Rockland Breakwater Light; and thence 120°, 1,000 yards, to the point of beginning.


(2) *Anchorage B.* Beginning at a point bearing 273°, 400 yards, from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 273°, 700 yards, to a point bearing 273° from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 349°, 850 yards, to a point bearing 305° from Rockland Breakwater Light; thence 89°, 700 yards, to a point bearing 328° from Rockland Breakwater Light; and thence 169°, 900 yards, to the point of beginning. 


(b) *The regulations.* (1) Anchorages A and B are general anchorage grounds reserved for merchant vessels, commercial vessels or passenger vessels over 65 feet in length. Fixed moorings, piles or stakes are prohibited.


(2) A distance of approximately 500 yards shall be left between Anchorages A and B for vessels entering or departing from the Port of Rockland. A distance of approximately 100 yards shall be left between Anchorage A and the Special Anchorage Area for vessels entering or departing facilities in the vicinity of Atlantic Point. Any vessel anchored in these anchorages shall be capable of moving and when ordered to move by the Captain of the Port shall do so with reasonable promptness.


(3) All other vessels within the Rockland Harbor area are prohibited from anchoring within 300 yards or operating within 100 feet of any navy yard, shipbuilding plant, power plant, oil terminal, marine terminal, munitions plant, military or naval arsenal or depot, warehouse, or freight pier without permission from the Captain of the Port, Rockland, Maine, or his authorized representative. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967. Redesignated by CGD-01-02-027, 67 FR 68518, Nov. 12, 2002; CGD-01-02-129, 68 FR 44888, July 31, 2003]




