# § 126.500   How does a concern maintain HUBZone certification?

(a) *Recertification.* (1) Any concern seeking to remain a certified HUBZone small business concern in DSBS (or successor system) must recertify to SBA that it continues to meet all HUBZone eligibility criteria (*see* § 126.200) every three years. In order to recertify—


(i) A certified HUBZone small business concern that was not awarded a HUBZone contract during the 12-month period preceding its recertification must represent that, at the time of its recertification, at least 35% of its employees reside in HUBZones and the concern's principal office is located in a HUBZone.


(ii) A certified HUBZone small business concern that was awarded a HUBZone contract during the 12-month period preceding its recertification must represent that, at the time of its recertification, it is attempting to maintain compliance with the 35% HUBZone residency requirement and the concern's principal office is located in a HUBZone.


(2) The concern's recertification must be submitted in the 90 calendar days before the triennial anniversary of its HUBZone certification date.


(3) If a concern fails to recertify, SBA will decertify the concern at the end of its eligibility period. However, if a concern is able to recertify its eligibility within 30 days of the end of its eligibility period, SBA will reinstate the firm as a certified HUBZone small business concern.


(4) For a certified HUBZone small business concern that is also a certified WOSB or SDVOSB, the firm may have to recertify less than three years after its previous recertification in order to align certification date.


(b) *Program examinations.* SBA will conduct a program examination of each certified HUBZone small business concern at least once every three years to ensure continued program eligibility, but may conduct more frequent program examinations using a risk-based analysis to select which concerns are examined.



---

[N] [89 FR 102501, Dec. 17, 2024]




