# ยง 68.20   Production of documents, things, and inspection of land.

(a) Any party may serve on any other party a request to:


(1) Produce and permit the party making the request, or a person acting on his/her behalf, to inspect and copy any designated documents or things or to inspect land, in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served; and


(2) Permit the party making the request, or a person acting on his/her behalf, to enter the premises of the party upon whom the request is served to accomplish the purposes stated in paragraph (1) of this section.


(b) The request may be served on any party without leave of the Administrative Law Judge.


(c) The request shall:


(1) Set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or by category;


(2) Describe each item or category with reasonable particularity; and


(3) Specify a reasonable time, place, and manner of making the inspection and performing the related acts.


(d) The party upon whom the request is served shall serve on the party submitting the request a written response within thirty (30) days after service of the request.


(e) The response shall state, with respect to each item or category:


(1) That inspection and related activities will be permitted as requested; or


(2) That objection is made in whole or in part, in which case the reasons for objection shall be stated.


(f) A copy of each request for production and each written response shall be served on all parties.



---

[N] [54 FR 48596, Nov. 24, 1989. Redesignated by Order No. 1534-91, 56 FR 50053, Oct. 3, 1991]




