# ยง 7.1   Definitions.

When used in this part and on forms prescribed under this part, the following terms have the meaning assigned to them in this section, unless the terms appear in a context that requires a different meaning. Any other term defined in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA Act) and used in this part has the same meaning assigned to it by the FAA Act.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury.


*Advertisement or Advertising.* See ยง 7.232 for meaning of these terms as used in subpart N of this part.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by the current version of TTB Order 1135.7, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR part 7, Labeling and Advertising of Malt Beverages.


*Bottler.* Any brewer or wholesaler who places malt beverages in containers.


*Brand name.* The name under which a malt beverage or a line of malt beverages is sold.


*Certificate holder.* The permittee or brewer whose name, address, and basic permit number, plant registry number, or brewer's notice number appears on an approved TTB Form 5100.31.


*Certificate of exemption from label approval.* A certificate issued on TTB Form 5100.31, which authorizes the bottling of wine or distilled spirits, under the condition that the product will under no circumstances be sold, offered for sale, shipped, delivered for shipment, or otherwise introduced by the applicant, directly or indirectly, into interstate or foreign commerce.


*Certificate of label approval (COLA).* A certificate issued on form TTB Form 5100.31 that authorizes the bottling of wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages, or the removal of bottled wine, distilled spirits, or malt beverages from customs custody for introduction into commerce, as long as the product bears labels identical to the labels appearing on the face of the certificate, or labels with changes authorized by TTB on the certificate or otherwise (such as through the issuance of public guidance available on the TTB website at *https://www.ttb.gov*).


*Container.* Any can, bottle, box, cask, keg, barrel or other closed receptacle, in any size or material, which is for use in the sale of malt beverages at retail.


*Customs officer.* An officer of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or any agent or other person authorized by law to perform the duties of such an officer.


*Distinctive or fanciful name.* A descriptive name or phrase chosen to identify a malt beverage product on the label. It does not include a brand name, class or type designation, statement of composition, or designation known to the trade or consumers.


*FAA Act.* The Federal Alcohol Administration Act.


*Gallon.* A U.S. gallon of 231 cubic inches of malt beverages at 39.1 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius). All other liquid measures used are subdivisions of the gallon as defined.


*Interstate or foreign commerce.* Commerce between any State and any place outside of that State or commerce within the District of Columbia or commerce between points within the same State but through any place outside of that State.


*Keg collar.* A disk that is pushed down over the keg's bung or tap cover.


*Malt beverage.* A beverage made by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or decoction, or combination of both, in potable brewing water, of malted barley with hops, or their parts, or their products, and with or without other malted cereals, and with or without the addition of unmalted or prepared cereals, other carbohydrates or products prepared therefrom, and with or without the addition of carbon dioxide, and with or without other wholesome products suitable for human food consumption. See ยง 7.5 for standards applying to the use of processing methods and flavors in malt beverage production.


*Net contents.* The amount, by volume, of a malt beverage held in a container.


*Permittee.* Any person holding a basic permit under the FAA Act.


*Person.* Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, business trust, limited liability company, or other form of business enterprise, including a receiver, trustee, or liquidating agent and including an officer or employee of any agency of a State or political subdivision of a State.


*Responsible advertiser.* The permittee or brewer responsible for the publication or broadcast of an advertisement.


*State.* One of the 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


*Tap cover.* A cap, usually made of plastic, that fits over the top of the tap (or bung) of a keg.


*TTB.* The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the Department of the Treasury.


*United States (U.S.).* The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.




