# § 217.125   Requirements for monitoring and reporting.

(a) *Visual monitoring.* When conducting activities under an LOA, Point Blue must conduct a visual monitoring program and record information as required by the LOA and this subpart.


(1) Standard information recorded must include species counts (with age/sex classes noted when possible) of animals present before approaching, numbers of observed disturbances, and descriptions of the disturbance behaviors during the monitoring surveys, including location, date, and time of the event.


(2) The lead biologist must serve as an observer to record incidental take.


(3) The lead biologist must record the following:


(i) The date, time, and location (or closest point of ingress) of each visit to the research site;


(ii) Composition of the marine mammals sighted, such as species, sex, and life history stage (*e.g.,* adult, sub-adult, pup);


(iii) The number (by species) of marine mammals observed during the activities;


(iv) Estimated number of marine mammals (by species) that may have been disturbed during the activities, using a three-point scale of disturbance contained in an LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this chapter and 217.126. Disturbance Levels 2 and 3 must be recorded as takes;


(v) Behavioral responses or modifications in behaviors that may be attributed to the specific activities and a description of the specific activities occurring during that time (*e.g.,* pedestrian approach, vessel approach);


(vi) Information on the weather, including the tidal state and horizontal visibility; and


(vii) If applicable, note the presence of any offshore predators (date, time, number, and species).


(4) Point Blue must report observations of unusual behaviors, numbers, or distributions of pinnipeds, or of tag-bearing carcasses, to the NMFS West Coast Regional Office.


(b) *Prohibited take.* (1) In the event that personnel discovers an injured or dead marine mammal, Point Blue shall report the incident to the Office of Protected Resources, NMFS, and the West Coast Regional Stranding Coordinator, NMFS as soon as feasible. If the death or injury was caused by Point Blue's activities, Point Blue must immediately cease activities conducted under its LOA until NMFS is able to review the circumstances of the incident and determine what, if any, additional measures are appropriate to ensure compliance with the terms of the LOA. Point Blue must not resume their activities until notified by NMFS. The report must include the following information:


(i) Time, date, and location (latitude/longitude) of the first discovery (and updated location information if known and applicable);


(ii) Species identification (if known) or description of the animal(s) involved;


(iii) Condition of the animal(s) (including carcass condition if the animal is dead);


(iv) Observed behaviors of the animal(s), if alive;


(v) If available, photographs or video footage of the animal(s); and


(vi) General circumstances under which the animal was discovered.


(c) *Annual report.* (1) A draft annual report covering the period of January 1 through December 31 of each year must be submitted to NMFS Office of Protected Resources by April 1 of each year. The final annual report after year five may be included as part of the final report (see below). The report must include the information gathered pursuant to the monitoring requirements set forth above and in the LOA at minimum, and must also include raw sightings data.


(2) A final annual report must be submitted to the Director of the NMFS Office of Protected Resources within 30 days after receiving comments from NMFS on the draft annual report. If no comments are received from NMFS, the draft annual report will be considered the final report.


(d) *Final report.* A draft final report must be submitted to NMFS Office of Protected Resources within 60 days after the conclusion of the fifth year. A final report must be submitted to the Director of the NMFS Office of Protected Resources within 30 days after receiving comments from NMFS on the draft final report. If no comments are received from NMFS, the draft final report will be considered the final report.




