# § 191.184   Merchandise transferred from continuous Customs custody.

(a) *Procedure for filing claims.* The procedure described in subpart O of this part shall be followed as applicable, for drawback on merchandise transferred to a foreign trade zone from continuous Customs custody.


(b) *Drawback entry.* Before the transfer of merchandise from continuous Customs custody to a foreign trade zone, the importer or a person designated in writing by the importer for that purpose shall file with the drawback office a direct export drawback entry on Customs Form 7551 in duplicate. The drawback office shall forward one copy of Customs Form 7551 to the zone operator at the zone.


(c) *Certification by zone operator.* After the merchandise has been received in the zone, the zone operator shall certify on the copy of Customs Form 7551 the receipt of the merchandise (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section) and forward the form to the transferor or the person designated by the transferor, unless the export summary procedure, provided for in § 191.73, is used. If the export summary procedure is used, the requirements in § 191.73 shall be complied with, as applicable. After executing the declaration provided for in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the transferor shall resubmit Customs Form 7551 to the drawback office in place of the bill of lading required by § 191.156.


(d) *Modification of drawback entry*—(1) *Indication of transfer.* Customs Form 7551 shall indicate that the merchandise is to be transferred to a foreign trade zone.


(2) *Endorsement.* The transferor or person designated by the transferor shall endorse Customs Form 7551 as follows, for execution by the foreign trade zone operator:


(3) *Transferor's declaration.* The transferor shall declare on Customs Form 7551 as follows:


