# § 170.17   CMMC Level 2 certification assessment and affirmation requirements.

(a) *Level 2 certification assessment.* To comply with Level 2 certification assessment requirements, the OSC must meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. An OSC undergoes a Level 2 certification assessment as detailed in paragraph (c) of this section to achieve a CMMC Status of either Conditional or Final Level 2 (C3PAO). Achieving a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) also satisfies the requirements for a CMMC Statuses of Level 1 (Self) and Level 2 (Self) set forth in §§ 170.15 and 170.16 respectively for the same CMMC Assessment Scope.


(1) *Level 2 certification assessment requirements.* The OSC must complete and achieve a MET result for all security requirements specified in § 170.14(c)(3) to achieve the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO). The OSC must obtain a Level 2 certification assessment from an authorized or accredited C3PAO following the procedures outlined in paragraph (c) of this section. The C3PAO must submit the Level 2 certification assessment results into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS, which then provides automated transmission to SPRS. To maintain compliance with the requirements for a CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO), the Level 2 certification assessment must be completed within three years of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO).


(i) *Inputs into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.* The Level 2 certification assessment results input into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS shall include, at minimum, the following information:


(A) Date and level of the assessment.


(B) C3PAO name.


(C) Assessment unique identifier.


(D) For each Assessor conducting the assessment, name and business contact information.


(E) All industry CAGE codes associated with the information systems addressed by the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(F) The name, date, and version of the SSP.


(G) CMMC Status Date.


(H) Assessment result for each requirement objective.


(I) POA&M usage and compliance, as applicable.


(J) List of the artifact names, the return value of the hashing algorithm, and the hashing algorithm used.


(ii) *Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO).* The OSC has achieved the CMMC Status of Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO) if the Level 2 certification assessment results in a POA&M and the POA&M meets all CMMC Level 2 POA&M requirements listed in § 170.21(a)(2).


(A) *Plan of Action and Milestones.* A Level 2 POA&M is allowed only in accordance with the CMMC POA&M requirements listed in § 170.21.


(B) *POA&M closeout.* The OSC must remediate any NOT MET requirements, must undergo a POA&M closeout certification assessment from a C3PAO, and the C3PAO must post compliance results into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS within 180 days of the CMMC Status Date associated with the Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO). If the POA&M is not successfully closed out within the 180-day timeframe, the Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO) CMMC Status for the information system will expire. If Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO) CMMC Status expires within the period of performance of a contract, standard contractual remedies will apply, and the OSC will be ineligible for additional awards with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.


(iii) *Final Level 2 (C3PAO).* The OSC has achieved the CMMC Status of Final Level 2 (C3PAO) if the Level 2 certification assessment results in a passing score as defined in § 170.24. This score may be achieved upon initial certification assessment or as the result of a POA&M closeout certification assessment, as applicable.


(iv) *CMMC Status investigation.* The DoD reserves the right to conduct a DCMA DIBCAC assessment of the OSC, as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7020. If the investigative results of a subsequent DCMA DIBCAC assessment show that adherence to the provisions of this part have not been achieved or maintained, these DCMA DIBCAC results will take precedence over any pre-existing CMMC Status. At that time, standard contractual remedies will be available and the OSC will be ineligible for additional awards with CMMC Status requirement of Level 2 (C3PAO), or higher requirement, for the information system within the CMMC Assessment Scope until such time as a new CMMC Status is achieved.


(2) *Affirmation.* Affirmation of the Level 2 (C3PAO) CMMC Status is required for all Level 2 certification assessments at the time of each assessment, and annually thereafter. Affirmation procedures are provided in § 170.22.


(b) *Contract eligibility.* Prior to award of any contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO), the following two requirements must be met:


(1) The OSC must achieve, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a CMMC Status of either Conditional Level 2 (C3PAO) or Final Level 2 (C3PAO).


(2) The OSC must submit an affirmation of compliance into SPRS, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(c) *Procedures*—(1) *Level 2 certification assessment of the OSC.* An authorized or accredited C3PAO must perform a Level 2 certification assessment in accordance with NIST SP 800-171A Jun2018 (incorporated by reference, see § 170.2) and the CMMC Level 2 scoping requirements set forth in § 170.19(a) and (c) for the information systems within the CMMC Assessment Scope. The Level 2 certification assessment must be scored in accordance with the CMMC Scoring Methodology described in § 170.24 and the C3PAO must upload the results into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS. Final results are communicated to the OSC through a CMMC Assessment Findings Report.


(2) *Security requirement re-evaluation.* A security requirement that is NOT MET (as defined in § 170.24) may be re-evaluated during the course of the Level 2 certification assessment and for 10 business days following the active assessment period if all of the following conditions exist:


(i) Additional evidence is available to demonstrate the security requirement has been MET;


(ii) Cannot change or limit the effectiveness of other requirements that have been scored MET; and


(iii) The CMMC Assessment Findings Report has not been delivered.


(3) *POA&M.* If a POA&M exists, a POA&M closeout certification assessment must be performed by a C3PAO within 180-days of the Conditional CMMC Status Date. Additional guidance can be found in § 170.21 and in the guidance document listed in paragraph (c) of appendix A to this part.


(4) *Artifact retention and integrity.* The hashed artifacts used as evidence for the assessment must be retained by the OSC for six (6) years from the CMMC Status Date. To ensure that the artifacts have not been altered, the OSC must hash the artifact files using a NIST-approved hashing algorithm. The OSC must provide the C3PAO with a list of the artifact names, the return value of the hashing algorithm, and the hashing algorithm for upload into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS. Additional guidance for hashing artifacts can be found in the guidance document listed in paragraph (h) of appendix A to this part.


(5) *Level 2 certification assessment with the use of Cloud Service Provider (CSP).* An OSC may use a cloud environment to process, store, or transmit CUI in performance of a contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) under the following circumstances:


(i) The CSP product or service offering is FedRAMP Authorized at the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline in accordance with the FedRAMP Marketplace; or


(ii) The CSP product or service offering is not FedRAMP Authorized at the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline but meets security requirements equivalent to those established by the FedRAMP Moderate (or higher) baseline. FedRAMP Moderate or FedRAMP Moderate equivalent is in accordance with DoD Policy.


(iii) In accordance with § 170.19(c)(2), the OSC's on-premises infrastructure connecting to the CSP's product or service offering is part of the CMMC Assessment Scope. As such, the security requirements from the CRM must be documented or referred to in the OSC's SSP.


(6) *Level 2 certification assessment with the use of an External Service Provider (ESP), not a CSP.* An OSA may use an ESP that is not a CSP to process, store, or transmit CUI in performance of a contract or subcontract with a requirement for the CMMC Status of Level 2 (C3PAO) under the following circumstances:


(i) The use of the ESP, its relationship to the OSA, and the services provided are documented in the OSA's SSP and described in the ESP's service description and customer responsibility matrix.


(ii) The ESP services used to meet OSA requirements are assessed within the scope of the OSA's assessment against all Level 2 security requirements.


(iii) In accordance with § 170.19(c)(2), the OSA's on-premises infrastructure connecting to the ESP's product or service offering is part of the CMMC Assessment Scope, which will also be assessed. As such, the security requirements from the CRM must be documented or referred to in the OSA's SSP.






