# § 206.127   Application for insurance benefits.

(a) *Mortgagee acquires title.* (1) The mortgagee shall apply for the payment of the insurance benefits within 30 days after the sale of the property by the mortgagee or within such additional time as approved by the Commissioner. Application shall be made by notifying the Commissioner of the sale of the property, the sale price, and income and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, repair, and sale of the property.


(2) If the property will not be sold within six months from the foreclosure sale date where the mortgagee is the successful bidder, the mortgagee shall apply for the insurance benefit not later than 30 days after the end of the six-month period, substituting the appraised value, using a valid appraisal, for the sale price. The mortgagee may add the cost of the appraisal to the claim amount.


(b) *Party other than the mortgagee acquires title.* The mortgagee shall apply for the payment of the insurance benefits within 30 days after a party other than the mortgagee acquires title to the property. Application shall be made by notifying the Commissioner of the sale of the property and the sale price. Transferring a portfolio that includes REO properties to another entity does not constitute a “sale” under this section.


(c) *Mortgagee assigns the mortgage.* The mortgagee shall file its claim for the payment of insurance benefits within 15 days after the date the assignment of the mortgage to the Commissioner is filed for recording. The application for the payment of the insurance benefits shall include the items listed in § 206.135(a) and the certification required under § 206.136.


(d) *Contract of insurance not terminated.* Mortgagees may only file an application for insurance benefits provided the contract of insurance has not terminated.




