# ยง 384.301   Substantial compliance-general requirements.

(a) To be in substantial compliance with 49 U.S.C. 31311(a), a State must meet each and every standard of subpart B of this part by means of the demonstrable combined effect of its statutes, regulations, administrative procedures and practices, organizational structures, internal control mechanisms, resource assignments (facilities, equipment, and personnel), and enforcement practices. 


(b)(1) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of September 30, 2002 as soon as practical, but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than September 30, 2005.


(2) *Exception.* A State must come into substantial compliance with 49 CFR 383.123 not later than September 30, 2006.


(c) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of September 4, 2007 as soon as practical but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than September 4, 2010.


(d) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of January 30, 2009, as soon as practical, but not later than January 30, 2012.


(e) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of October 27, 2010 as soon as practical, but not later than October 28, 2013.


(f) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of July 8, 2011 and April 24, 2013 as soon as practical but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than July 8, 2015.


(g) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part, which is effective as of December 5, 2011, as soon as practicable, but not later than January 30, 2012.


(h) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part in effect as of January 3, 2012) as soon as practical, but not later than January 3, 2015.


(i) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part and part 383 of this chapter in effect as of June 22, 2015, as soon as practical, but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than June 23, 2025.


(j) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part and part 383 of this chapter in effect as of December 12, 2016 as soon as practicable, but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than December 12, 2019.


(k) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part and part 383 of this chapter in effect as of February 6, 2017, but not later than February 7, 2022.


(l) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part and part 383 of this chapter in effect as of November 27, 2018 as soon as practicable, but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than November 27, 2021.


(m) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of part 383 of this chapter in effect as of September 23, 2019, or as soon as practicable, but not later than September 23, 2022.


(n) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of this part in effect as of August 23, 2021, as soon as practicable, but not later than August 22, 2024.


(o) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part and part 383 of this chapter in effect as of November 8, 2021, as soon as practicable, but, unless otherwise specifically provided in this part, not later than November 18, 2024.


(p) A State must come into substantial compliance with the requirements of subpart B of this part, which is effective as of July 15, 2024, as soon as practicable, but not later than August 22, 2024.



---

[N] [67 FR 49763, July 31, 2002]


