# § 12.308   Agency review.

(a) Either the applicant or the NRC counsel may seek review of the initial decision on the fee application, or the Commission may decide to review the decision on its own initiative, in accordance with the Commission's review procedures set out in 10 CFR 2.341. The filing of a petition for review is mandatory for a party to exhaust its administrative remedies before seeking judicial review. If neither the applicant nor NRC counsel seeks review and the Commission does not take review on its own initiative, the initial decision on the application shall become a final decision of the NRC 120 days after it is issued.


(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other part of the Commission's regulations, the initial decision shall be inoperative (*i.e.*, the decision shall not be final and any award made shall not be paid) until the later of—


(1) The expiration of the 120 day period provided in paragraph (a) of this section; or


(2) If within the 120 day period provided in paragraph (a) of this section the Commission elects to review the decision, the Commission's issuance of a final decision on review of the initial decision.


(c) Whether to review a decision on its own motion is a matter within the discretion of the Commission. If review is taken, the Commission will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.



---

[N] [59 FR 23121, May 5, 1994, as amended at 77 FR 46599, Aug. 3, 2012]




