# § 583.8   Procedure for determining country of origin for engines and transmissions (for purposes of determining the information specified by §§ 583.5(a)(4) and 583.5(a)(5) only).

(a) Each supplier of an engine or transmission shall determine the country of origin once a year for each engine and transmission. The origin of engines shall be calculated for engines of the same displacement produced at the same plant. The origin for transmissions shall be calculated for transmissions of the same type produced at the same plant. Transmissions are of the same type if they have the same attributes including: Drive line application, number of forward gears, controls, and layout. The U.S. and Canada are treated separately in making such determination.


(b) The value of an engine or transmission is determined by first adding the prices paid by the manufacturer of the engine/transmission for each component comprising the engine/transmission, as delivered to the assembly plant of the engine/transmission, and the fair market value of each individual part produced at the plant. The assembly and labor costs incurred for the final assembly of the engine/transmission are then added to determine the value of the engine or transmission.


(c) *Determining the country of origin of components.* (1) Except as provided in (c)(2), the country of origin of each item of equipment is the country which contributes the greatest amount of value added to that item (the U.S. and Canada are treated separately).


(2) Instead of making country of origin determinations in the manner specified in (c)(1), a manufacturer may, at its option, use any other methodology that is used for customs purposes (U.S. or foreign), so long as a consistent methodology is employed for all components.


(d) *Determination of the total value of an engine/transmission which is attributable to individual countries.* The value of an engine/transmission that is attributable to each country is determined by adding the total value of all of the components installed in that engine/transmission which originated in that country. For the country where final assembly of the engine/transmission takes place, the assembly and labor costs incurred for such final assembly are also added.


(e) The country of origin of each engine and the country of origin of each transmission is the country which contributes the greatest amount of value added to that item of equipment (the U.S. and Canada are treated separately).



---

[N] [59 FR 37330, July 21, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 47895, Sept. 15, 1995; 64 FR 40781, July 28, 1999]




