# ยง 200.313   Equipment.

See also ยง 200.439.


(a) *Title.* Title to equipment acquired under the Federal award will vest upon acquisition in the recipient or subrecipient subject to the conditions of this section. This title must be a conditional title unless a Federal statute specifically authorizes the Federal agency to vest title in the recipient or subrecipient without further responsibility to the Federal Government (and the Federal agency elects to do so). A conditional title means a clear title is withheld by the Federal agency until conditions and requirements specified in the terms and conditions of a Federal award have been fulfilled. Title for equipment vested in a recipient or subrecipient is subject to the following conditions:


(1) Use the equipment for the authorized purposes of the project during the period of performance or until the property is no longer needed for the purposes of the project.


(2) While the equipment is being used for the originally-authorized purpose, the recipient or subrecipient must not dispose of or encumber its title or other interests without the approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity.


(3) Use and dispose of the property in accordance with paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section.


(b) *General.* A State must use, manage and dispose of equipment acquired under a Federal award in accordance with State laws and procedures. Indian Tribes must use, manage, and dispose of equipment acquired under a Federal award in accordance with tribal laws and procedures. If such laws and procedures do not exist, Indian Tribes must follow the guidance in this section. Other recipients and subrecipients, including subrecipients of a State or Indian Tribe, must follow paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.


(c) *Use.* (1) The recipient or subrecipient must use equipment for the project or program for which it was acquired and for as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by the Federal award. The recipient or subrecipient must not encumber the equipment without prior approval of the Federal agency or pass-through entity. The Federal agency may require the submission of the applicable common forms for reporting on equipment. When no longer needed for the original project or program, the equipment may be used in other activities in the following order of priority:


(i) Activities under other Federal awards from the Federal agency that funded the original program or project; then


(ii) Activities under Federal awards from other Federal agencies. These activities include consolidated equipment for information technology systems.


(2) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient or subrecipient must also make the equipment available for use on other programs or projects supported by the Federal Government, provided that such use will not interfere with the purpose for which it was originally acquired. First preference for other use of the equipment must be given to other programs or projects supported by the Federal agency that financed the equipment. Second preference must be given to programs or projects under Federal awards from other Federal agencies. Use for non-federally-funded projects is also permissible, provided such use will not interfere with the purpose for which it was originally acquired. The recipient or subrecipient should consider charging user fees as appropriate.


(3) Notwithstanding the encouragement in ยง 200.307 to earn program income, the recipient or subrecipient must not use equipment acquired with the Federal award to provide services for a fee that is less than a private company would charge for similar services unless specifically authorized by Federal statute. This restriction is effective as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment.


(4) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient or subrecipient may either trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the cost of the replacement equipment.


(d) *Management requirements.* Regardless of whether equipment is acquired in part or its entirety under the Federal award, the recipient or subrecipient must manage equipment (including replacement equipment) utilizing procedures that meet the following requirements:


(1) Property records must include a description of the property, a serial number or another identification number, the source of funding for the property (including the FAIN), the title holder, the acquisition date, the cost of the property, the percentage of the Federal agency contribution towards the original purchase, the location, use and condition of the property, and any disposition data including the date of disposal and sale price of the property. The recipient and subrecipient are responsible for maintaining and updating property records when there is a change in the status of the property.


(2) A physical inventory of the property must be conducted, and the results must be reconciled with the property records at least once every two years.


(3) A control system must be in place to ensure safeguards for preventing property loss, damage, or theft. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment must be investigated. The recipient or subrecipient must notify the Federal agency or pass-through entity of any loss, damage, or theft of equipment that will have an impact on the program.


(4) Regular maintenance procedures must be in place to ensure the property is in proper working condition.


(5) If the recipient or subrecipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures must be in place to ensure the highest possible return.


(e) *Disposition.* When equipment acquired under a Federal award is no longer needed for the original project, program, or for other activities currently or previously supported by a Federal agency, the recipient or subrecipient must request disposition instructions from the Federal agency or pass-through entity if required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award. Disposition of the equipment will be made as follows, in accordance with Federal agency or pass-through entity disposition instructions:


(1) Equipment with a current fair market value of $10,000 or less (per unit) may be retained, sold, or otherwise disposed of with no further responsibility to the Federal agency or pass-through entity.


(2) Except as provided in ยง 200.312(b), or if the Federal agency or pass-through entity fails to provide requested disposition instructions within 120 days, items of equipment with a current fair market value in excess of $10,000 (per-unit) may be retained or sold by the recipient or subrecipient. However, the Federal agency is entitled to an amount calculated by multiplying the percentage of the Federal agency's contribution towards the original purchase by the current market value or proceeds from the sale. If the equipment is sold, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may permit the recipient or subrecipient to retain, from the Federal share, $1,000 of the proceeds to cover expenses associated with the selling and handling of the equipment.


(3) The recipient or subrecipient may transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that the recipient or subrecipient must be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property.


(4) In cases where a recipient or subrecipient fails to take appropriate disposition actions, the Federal agency or pass-through entity may direct the recipient or subrecipient to take disposition actions.


(f) *Equipment retention.* When included in the terms and conditions of the Federal award, the Federal agency may permit the recipient to retain equipment, or authorize a pass-through entity to permit the subrecipient to retain equipment, with no further obligation to the Federal Government unless prohibited by Federal statute or regulation.








