# § 721.10095   Oxetane, 3,3′-[oxybis(methylene)] bis[3-ethyl-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as oxetane, 3,3′-[oxybis(methylene)] bis[3-ethyl- (PMN P-03-471; CAS No. 18934-00-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(iii), and (a)(3) (polyvinyl alcohol gloves with a thickness of no less than 31.3 mils or silvershield/4H sleeves with a thickness of no less than 2.7 mils have satisfied § 721.63(a)(3)(i) for up to 8 hours.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), and (g)(2)(v).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 65759, Nov. 5, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 57425, Nov. 6, 2009]




