# § 306.11   Forms of registration for transferable securities.

The forms of registration described below are authorized for transferable securities:


(a) *Natural persons in their own right.* In the names of natural persons who are not under any legal disability, in their own right, substantially as follows:


(1) *One person.* In the name of one individual. Examples:


(2) *Two or more persons—general.* Securities will not be registered in the name of one person payable on death to another, or in any form which purports to authorize transfer by less than all the persons named in the registration (or all the survivors). 
3 Securities will not be registered in the forms John A. Doe and Mrs. Mary C. Doe, or either of them or William C. Doe or Henry J. Doe, or either of them and securities so assigned will be treated as though the words *or either of them* do not appear in the assignments. The taxpayer identifying number of any of the joint owners may be shown on securities registered in joint ownership form.


(i) *With right of survivorship.* In the names of two or more individuals with right of survivorship. Examples:


(ii) *Without right of survivorship.* In the names of two or more individuals in such manner as to preclude the right of survivorship. Examples:


(b) *Minors and incompetents*—(1) *Natural guardians of minors.* A security may be registered in the name of a natural guardian of a minor for whose estate no legal guardian or similar representative has legally qualified. Example:


(2) *Custodian under statute authorizing gifts to minors.* A security may be purchased as a gift to a minor under a gifts to minors statute in effect in the State in which either the donor or the minor resides. The security should be registered as provided in the statute, with an identifying reference to the statute if the registration does not clearly identify it. Examples:


(3) *Incompetents not under guardianship.* Registration in the form *John A. Brown, an incompetent (123-45-6789), under voluntary guardianship,* is permitted only on reissue after a voluntary guardian has qualified for the purpose of collecting interest. (See §§ 306.37(c)(2) and 306.57(c)(2)). Otherwise, registration in the name of an incompetent not under legal guardianship is not authorized.


(c) *Executors, administrators, guardians, and similar representatives or fiduciaries.* A security may be registered in the names of legally qualified executors, administrators, guardians, conservators, or similar representatives or fiduciaries of a single estate. The names and capacities of all the representatives or fiduciaries, as shown in their letters of appointment, must be included in the registration and must be followed by an adequate identifying reference to the estate. Examples:


(d) *Life tenant under will.* A security may be registered in the name of a life tenant followed by an adequate identifying reference to the will. Example:


(e) *Private trust estates.* A security may be registered in the name and title of the trustee or trustees of a single duly constituted private trust, followed by an adequate identifying reference to the authority governing the trust. Examples:


(1) If there are several trustees designated as a board or authorized to act as a unit, their names should be omitted and the words *Board of Trustees* substituted for the word *trustees.* Example:


(2) If the trustees do not constitute a board or otherwise act as a unit, and are either too numerous to be designated in the inscription by names and title, or serve for limited terms, some or all of the names may be omitted. Examples:


(f) *Private organizations (corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships).* A security may be registered in the name of any private corporation, unincorporated association, or partnership, including a nominee, which for purposes of these regulations is treated as the owner. The full legal name of the organization, as set forth in its charter, articles of incorporation, constitution, partnership agreement, or other authority from which its powers are derived, must be included in the registration and may be followed, if desired, by a reference to a particular account or fund, other than a trust fund, in accordance with the rules and examples given below:


(1) *A corporation.* The name of a business, fraternal, religious, or other private corporation must be followed by descriptive words indicating the corporate status unless the term *corporation* or the abbreviation *Inc.* is part of the name or the name is that of a corporation or association organized under Federal law, such as a national bank or Federal savings and loan association. Examples:


(2) *An unincorporated association.* The name of a lodge, club, labor union, veterans' organization, religious society, or similar self-governing organization which is not incorporated (whether or not it is chartered by or affiliated with a parent organization which is incorporated) must be followed by the words *an unincorporated association.* Examples:


(3) *A partnership.* The name of a partnership must be followed by the words *a partnership.* Example:


(g) *States, public bodies, and corporations and public officers.* A security may be registered in the name of a State or county, city, town, village, school district, or other political entity, public body or corporation established by law (including a board, commission, administration, authority or agency) which is the owner or official custodian of public funds, other than trust funds, or in the full legal title of the public officer having custody. Examples:


(h) *States, public officers, corporations or bodies as trustees.* A security may be registered in the title of a public officer or in the name of a State or county or a public corporation or public body acting as trustee under express authority of law. An appropriate reference to the statute creating the trust may be included in the registration. Examples:



---

[N] [38 FR 7078, Mar. 15, 1973; 38 FR 8153, Mar. 29, 1973]




