# § 173.301a   Additional general requirements for shipment of specification cylinders.

(a) *General.* The requirements in this section are in addition to the requirements in § 173.301 and apply to the shipment of gases in specification cylinders. 


(b) *Authorized cylinders not marked with a service pressure.* For authorized cylinders not marked with a service pressure, the service pressure is designated as follows: 


(c) *Cylinder pressure at 21 °C (70 °F).* The pressure in a cylinder at 21 °C (70 °F) may not exceed the service pressure for which the cylinder is marked or designated, except as provided in § 173.302a(b). For certain liquefied gases, the pressure at 21 °C (70 °F) must be lower than the marked service pressure to avoid having a pressure at a temperature of 55 °C (131 °F) that is greater than permitted. 


(d) *Cylinder pressure at 55 °C (131 °F).* The pressure in a cylinder at 55 °C (131 °F) may not exceed 
5/4 times the service pressure, except: 


(1) For a cylinder filled with acetylene, liquefied nitrous oxide, or carbon dioxide. 


(2) For a cylinder filled in accordance with § 173.302a(b), the pressure in the cylinder at 55 °C (131 °F) may not exceed 
5/4 times the filling pressure. 


(3) The pressure at 55 °C (131 °F) of Hazard Zone A and Hazard Zone B materials may not exceed the service pressure of the cylinder. Sufficient outage must be provided so that the cylinder will not be liquid full at 55 °C (131 °F).


(e) *Grandfather clause.* A cylinder in domestic use prior to the date on which the specification for the cylinder was first made effective may be used if the cylinder has been properly tested and otherwise conforms to the requirements applicable to the gas with which it is charged.



---

[N] [67 FR 51645, Aug. 8, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 61289, Sept. 30, 2002; 68 FR 24661, May 8, 2003; 76 FR 56317, Sept. 13, 2011]




