# § 520.903b   Febantel suspension.

(a) *Specifications.* Each ounce of suspension contains 2.75 grams (9.3 percent ounce) febantel.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 058198 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use in horses*—(1) *Amount.* 3 milliliters per 100 pounds body weight or 1 fluid ounce per 1000 pounds (6 milligrams per kilogram body weight). Administer by stomach tube or drench, or by mixing well into a portion of the normal grain ration. For animals maintained on premises where reinfection is likely to occur, retreatment may be necessary. For most effective results, retreat in 6 to 8 weeks.


(2) *Indications for use.* For removal of ascarids (*Parascaris equorum*—adult and sexually immature), pinworms (*Oxyuris equi*—adult and 4th stage larvae), large strongyles (*Strongylus vulgaris, S. edentatus,**S. equinus*), and various small strongyles in horses, breeding stallions and mares, pregnant mares, foals, and ponies.


(3) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(d) *Special considerations.* Febantel suspension may be used in combination with trichlorfon oral liquid in accordance with the provisions of § 520.2520c, this section, and the following conditions:


(1) Combine 1 part febantel suspension with 5 parts trichlorfon liquid.


(2) Allow animal to consume a portion of daily grain ration; administer mixture by stomach tube at rate of 18 milliliters per 100 pounds of body weight.



---

[N] [45 FR 8587, Feb. 8, 1980, as amended at 79 FR 28821, May 20, 2014; 86 FR 14818, Mar. 19, 2021] 




