# ยง 31.16   Monthly reporting requirements.

(a) *Monthly activity.* Each leverage transaction merchant shall file written monthly reports with the National Futures Association in the format specified by the National Futures Association, by the tenth business day of the month following the month covered by the report and shall include the following information separately for each leverage commodity and each long and short leverage contract:


(1) The total number of leverage contracts that are open as of the close of business on the last business day of the month for:


(i) All customer accounts, and


(ii) Separately for commercial leverage accounts.


(2) The total number of leverage contracts entered into by leverage customers during the month for:


(i) All customer accounts, and


(ii) Separately for commercial leverage accounts.


(3) The total number of leverage contracts which were repurchased or resold by the leverage transaction merchant during the month.


(4) The total number of leverage contracts which were liquidated by the leverage transaction merchant during the month (*i.e.,* as a result of overdue or unanswered margin calls).


(5) The total number of deliveries on leverage contracts during the month.


(6) The total number of leverage contracts which were rescinded during the month.


(b) *Prices.* The monthly report shall also show the following information separately for each leverage commodity and each long and short leverage contract: the leverage transaction merchant's last bid price offered and last ask price offered as of the close of business on each business day.



---

[N] [54 FR 41082, Oct. 5, 1989]




