# ยง 981.41   Research and development.

(a) *General.* The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish or provide for the establishment of projects involving production research, marketing research and development projects, and marketing promotion including paid advertising, designed to assist, improve, or promote the marketing, distribution, consumption or efficient production of almonds. The Board may also provide for crediting the pro rata expense assessment obligations of a handler with such portion of his direct expenditure for such marketing promotion including paid advertising as may be authorized. The expenses of such projects shall be paid from funds collected pursuant to ยง 981.81(a) or credited pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Authorization.* If, on the basis of a Board recommendation pursuant to ยง 981.40(e) with respect to projects pursuant to this section, and appertaining rules and regulations established by the Secretary on recommendation of the Board, and other available information, the Secretary concurs that such activities should be permitted, he shall authorize such activities.


(c) *Creditable expenditures.* The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may provide for crediting all or any portion of a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion including paid advertising, that promotes the sale of almonds, almond products or their uses. No handler shall receive credit for any allowable direct expenditures that would exceed the total of his assessment obligation which is attributable to that portion of his assessment designated for marketing promotion including paid advertising. Such expenditures may include, but are not limited to, money spent for advertising space or time in newspaper, magazines, radio, television, transit, and outdoor media, including the actual standard agency commission costs not to exceed 15 percent.


(d) *Promotion guidelines.* All marketing promotion activity engaged in by the Board, including paid advertising, shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:


(1) No marketing promotion, including paid advertising shall refer to any private brand, private trademark or private trade name;


(2) No promotion or advertising shall disparage the quality, use, value, or sale of like or any other agricultural commodity or product, and no false or unwarranted claims shall be made in connection with the product;


(3) No promotion or advertising shall be undertaken without reason to believe that returns to producers will be improved by such activity; and


(4) Upon conclusion of each activity, but at least annually, the Board shall summarize and report the results of such activity to its members and to the Secretary.


(e) *Rules and regulations.* Before any project involving marketing promotion, including paid advertising and the crediting of the pro rata expense assessment obligation of handlers is undertaken pursuant to this section, the Secretary, after recommendation by the Board, shall prescribe appropriate rules and regulations as are necessary to effectively regulate such activity.



---

[N] [37 FR 3984, Feb. 25, 1972, as amended at 61 FR 32921, June 26, 1996; 89 FR 37968, May 7, 2024]




