# § 710.37   Confidentiality claims.

(a) *Chemical identity.* A person submitting information under this part may request to maintain an existing claim of confidentiality for the specific chemical identity of a reportable chemical substance, but may do so only if the identity of the chemical substance is listed on the confidential portion of the Inventory as of the time the notice is submitted for that chemical substance under this part. A request to maintain an existing claim of confidentiality must be made at the time the information is submitted. If no person submitting the information specified in § 710.29(d)(4) for a particular chemical substance requests that the claim be maintained, EPA will treat the specific chemical identity of that chemical substance as not subject to a confidentiality claim and will move the chemical substance to the public portion of the Inventory. Except as set forth in this subsection, information claimed as confidential in accordance with this section will be treated and disclosed in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR part 2, subpart B.


(1) *Notice of Activity Form A.* A person requesting to maintain an existing claim of confidentiality for specific chemical identity may submit with the notice answers to the questions in paragraphs (c)(1) and(c)(2) of this section, signed and dated by an authorized official. If these answers are submitted less than five years before the date on which substantiation is due pursuant to TSCA section 8(b)(4)(D)(i), the answers will be deemed to be substantiations made under TSCA section (8)(b)(4)(D)(i) and the person will be exempt from further substantiation requirements under TSCA section (8)(b)(4)(D)(i). Answers that do not include the answers to all applicable questions in paragraph (c) of this section will not be deemed to be substantiations made under the TSCA section (8)(b)(4)(D)(i) requirement.


(2) *Notice of Activity Form B.* A person requesting to maintain an existing claim of confidentiality for specific chemical identity must submit answers to the questions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section within 30 days of submitting the notice, signed and dated by an authorized official. If this information is not submitted within 30 days of submitting the notice, EPA will consider the confidentiality claim as deficient, so that the specific chemical identity is not subject to a confidentiality claim, and may make the information public without further notice.


(i) Persons who submitted the information described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section before May 5, 2020 must submit answers to the questions in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section not later than June 4, 2020.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Information other than specific chemical identity.* A person submitting information under this part may assert a claim of confidentiality for information other than specific chemical identity. Any such confidentiality claim must be made at the time the information is submitted. Except as set forth in this section, information claimed as confidential in accordance with this subsection will be treated and disclosed in accordance with 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. A person asserting a claim of confidentiality under this subsection must submit with the notice answers to the questions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, signed and dated by an authorized official. If no claim is asserted at the time the information is submitted, or if the answers to the questions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are not provided, EPA will consider the information as not subject to a confidentiality claim and may make the information public without further notice.


(c) *Substantiation questions.* Persons asserting that information is exempt from substantiation pursuant to TSCA section 14(c)(2) must answer only the question in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(1) *Substantiation questions for any confidentiality claim.* For any information with a confidentiality claim that you assert is exempt from substantiation pursuant to TSCA section 14(c)(2), answer only the question in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. For all other information with a confidentiality claim, answer the questions in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) through (vi) of this section. If more than one data element on Form A or Form B is claimed as confidential, you must answer the applicable questions individually for each data element. If the answer to a question applies for all confidentiality claims on the form, indicate this in your substantiation response.


(i) Do you believe that the information is exempt from substantiation pursuant to TSCA section 14(c)(2)? If you answered yes, you must individually identify the specific information claimed as confidential and specify the applicable exemption(s).


(ii) Will disclosure of the information likely result in substantial harm to your business's competitive position? If you answered yes, describe with specificity the substantial harmful effects that would likely result to your competitive position if the information is made available to the public.


(iii) To the extent your business has disclosed the information to others (both internally and externally), what precautions has your business taken? Identify the measures or internal controls your business has taken to protect the information claimed as confidential: Non-disclosure agreement required prior to access; access is limited to individuals with a need-to-know; information is physically secured; other internal control measure(s). If yes, explain.


(iv) Does the information appear in any public documents, including (but not limited to) safety data sheets, advertising or promotional material, professional or trade publication, or any other media or publications available to the general public? If you answered yes, explain why the information should be treated as confidential.


(v) Is the claim of confidentiality intended to last less than 10 years? If so, indicate the number of years (between 1-10 years) or the specific date/occurrence after which the claim is withdrawn.


(vi) Has EPA, another federal agency, or court made any confidentiality determination regarding information associated with this chemical substance? If you answered yes, explain the outcome of that determination and provide a copy of the previous confidentiality determination or any other information that will assist in identifying the prior determination.


(2) *Substantiation for confidentiality claims for specific chemical identity.* (i) Is the confidential chemical substance publicly known to have ever been offered for commercial distribution in the United States? If you answered yes, explain why the information should be treated as confidential.


(ii) Does this particular chemical substance leave the site of manufacture (including import) or processing in any form, *e.g.,* as a product, effluent, or emission? If yes, please explain what measures have been taken, if any, to guard against the discovery of its identity.


(iii) If the chemical substance leaves the site in a form that is available to the public or your competitors, can the chemical identity be readily discovered by analysis of the substance (*e.g.,* product, effluent, or emission), in light of existing technologies and any costs, difficulties, or limitations associated with such technologies? Please explain why or why not.


(d) *Confidentiality of substantiation.* If any of the information contained in the answers to the questions listed in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is claimed as confidential business information, the submitter must clearly indicate such by marking the substantiation as confidential business information as provided in a Notice of Activity Form A or Form B.


(e) *Certification statement for claims.* An authorized official of a person submitting or substantiating a claim of confidentiality or a request to maintain an existing claim of confidentiality for specific chemical identity must certify that the submission complies with the requirements of this part by signing and dating the following certification statement: “I certify that all claims for confidentiality made or sought to be maintained with this submission are true and correct, and all information submitted herein to substantiate such claims is true and correct. Any knowing and willful misrepresentation is subject to criminal penalty pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001.” I further certify that it is true and correct that:


(1) My company has taken reasonable measures to protect the confidentiality of the information;


(2) I have determined that the information is not required to be disclosed or otherwise made available to the public under any other Federal law;


(3) I have a reasonable basis to conclude that disclosure of the information is likely to cause substantial harm to the competitive position of my company; and


(4) I have a reasonable basis to believe that the information is not readily discoverable through reverse engineering.



---

[N] [82 FR 37540, Aug. 11, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 13067, Mar. 6, 2020]




