# § 180.352   Requirements for retest and inspection of IBCs.

(a) *General.* Each IBC constructed in accordance with a UN standard for which a test or inspection specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section is required may not be filled and offered for transportation or transported until the test or inspection has been successfully completed. This paragraph does not apply to any IBC filled prior to the test or inspection due date. The requirements in this section do not apply to DOT 56 and 57 portable tanks.


(b) *Test and inspections for metal, rigid plastic, and composite IBCs.* Each IBC is subject to the following test and inspections:


(1) Each IBC intended to contain solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure or intended to contain liquids must be tested in accordance with the leakproofness test prescribed in § 178.813 of this subchapter prior to its first use in transportation and every 2.5 years thereafter, starting from the date of manufacture or the date of a repair conforming to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For this test, the IBC is not required to have its closures fitted. 


(2) An external visual inspection must be conducted initially after production and every 2.5 years starting from the date of manufacture or the date of a repair conforming to paragraph (d)(1) of this section to ensure that:


(i) The IBC is marked in accordance with requirements in § 178.703 of this subchapter. Missing or damaged markings, or markings difficult to read must be restored or returned to original condition.


(ii) Service equipment is fully functional and free from damage which may cause failure. Missing, broken, or damaged parts must be repaired or replaced.


(iii) The IBC is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests. The IBC must be externally inspected for cracks, warpage, corrosion or any other damage which might render the IBC unsafe for transportation. An IBC found with such defects must be removed from service or repaired in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The inner receptacle of a composite IBC must be removed from the outer IBC body for inspection unless the inner receptacle is bonded to the outer body or unless the outer body is constructed in such a way (e.g., a welded or riveted cage) that removal of the inner receptacle is not possible without impairing the integrity of the outer body. Defective inner receptacles must be replaced in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section or the entire IBC must be removed from service. For metal IBCs, thermal insulation must be removed to the extent necessary for proper examination of the IBC body.


(3) Each metal, rigid plastic and composite IBC must be internally inspected at least every five years to ensure that the IBC is free from damage and to ensure that the IBC is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests.


(i) The IBC must be internally inspected for cracks, warpage, and corrosion or any other defect that might render the IBC unsafe for transportation. An IBC found with such defects must be removed from hazardous materials service until restored to the original design type of the IBC.


(ii) Metal IBCs must be inspected to ensure the minimum wall thickness requirements in § 178.705(c)(1)(iv) of this subchapter are met. Metal IBCs not conforming to minimum wall thickness requirements must be removed from hazardous materials service.


(c) *Visual inspection for flexible, fiberboard, or wooden IBCs.* Each IBC must be visually inspected prior to first use and permitted reuse, by the person who places hazardous materials in the IBC, to ensure that:


(1) The IBC is marked in accordance with requirements in § 178.703 of this subchapter. Additional marking allowed for each design type may be present. Required markings that are missing, damaged or difficult to read must be restored or returned to original condition.


(2) Proper construction and design specifications have been met.


(i) Each flexible IBC must be inspected to ensure that:


(A) Lifting straps if used, are securely fastened to the IBC in accordance with the design type.


(B) Seams are free from defects in stitching, heat sealing or gluing which would render the IBC unsafe for transportation of hazardous materials. All stitched seam-ends must be secure.


(C) Fabric used to construct the IBC is free from cuts, tears and punctures. Additionally, fabric must be free from scoring which may render the IBC unsafe for transport.


(ii) Each fiberboard IBC must be inspected to ensure that:


(A) Fluting or corrugated fiberboard is firmly glued to facings.


(B) Seams are creased and free from scoring, cuts, and scratches.


(C) Joints are appropriately overlapped and glued, stitched, taped or stapled as prescribed by the design. Where staples are used, the joints must be inspected for protruding staple-ends which could puncture or abrade the inner liner. All such ends must be protected before the IBC is authorized for hazardous materials service.


(iii) Each wooden IBC must be inspected to ensure that:


(A) End joints are secured in the manner prescribed by the design.


(B) IBC walls are free from defects in wood. Inner protrusions which could puncture or abrade the liner must be covered.


(d) *Requirements applicable to repair of IBCs.* (1) Except for flexible and fiberboard IBCs and the bodies of rigid plastic and composite IBCs, damaged IBCs may be repaired and the inner receptacles of composite packagings may be replaced and returned to service provided:


(i) The repaired IBC conforms to the original design type, is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests, and is retested and inspected in accordance with the applicable requirements of this section;


(ii) An IBC intended to contain liquids or solids that are loaded or discharged under pressure is subjected to a leakproofness test as specified in § 178.813 of this subchapter and is marked with the date of the test; and


(iii) The IBC is subjected to the internal and external inspection requirements as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(iv) The person performing the tests and inspections after the repair must durably mark the IBC near the manfacturer's UN design type marking to show the following:


(A) The country in which the tests and inspections were performed;


(B) The name or authorized symbol of the person performing the tests and inspections; and


(C) The date (month, year) of the tests and inspections.


(v) Retests and inspections performed in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements for the 2.5 and five year periodic tests and inspections required by paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.


(2) Except for flexible and fiberboard IBCs, the structural equipment of an IBC may be repaired and returned to service provided:


(i) The repaired IBC conforms to the original design type and is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests; and


(ii) The IBC is subjected to the internal and external inspection requirements as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) Service equipment may be replaced provided:


(i) The repaired IBC conforms to the original design type and is capable of withstanding the applicable design qualification tests;


(ii) The IBC is subjected to the external visual inspection requirements as specified in paragraph (b) of this section; and


(iii) The proper functioning and leak tightness of the service equipment, if applicable, is verified.


(e) *Requirements applicable to routine maintenance of IBCs.* Except for routine maintenance of metal, rigid plastics and composite IBCs performed by the owner of the IBC, whose State and name or authorized symbol is durably marked on the IBC, the party performing the routine maintenance shall durably mark the IBC near the manufacturer's UN design type marking to show the following:


(1) The country in which the routine maintenance was carried out; and


(2) The name or authorized symbol of the party performing the routine maintenance.


(f) *Retest date.* The date of the most recent periodic retest must be marked as provided in § 178.703(b) of this subchapter.


(g) *Record retention.* (1) The owner or lessee of the IBC must keep records of periodic retests, initial and periodic inspections, and tests performed on the IBC if it has been repaired or remanufactured.


(2) Records must include design types and packaging specifications, test and inspection dates, name and address of test and inspection facilities, names or name of any persons conducting test or inspections, and test or inspection specifics and results.


(3) Records must be kept for each packaging at each location where periodic tests are conducted, until such tests are successfully performed again or for at least 2.5 years from the date of the last test. These records must be made available for inspection by a representative of the Department on request.



---

[N] [Amdt. 180-5, 59 FR 38079, July 26, 1994, as amended at 64 FR 10782, Mar. 5, 1999; 65 FR 58632, Sept. 29, 2000; 66 FR 45186, 45391, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 45042, July 31, 2003; 69 FR 76186, Dec. 20, 2004; 70 FR 34399, June 14, 2005; 70 FR 56099, Sept. 23, 2005; 71 FR 78635, Dec. 29, 2006]




