# ยง 60.491   Definitions.

(a) All terms which are used in this subpart and are not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Act and subpart A of this part.


(1) *Beverage can* means any two-piece steel or aluminum container in which soft drinks or beer, including malt liquor, are packaged. The definition does not include containers in which fruit or vegetable juices are packaged.


(2) *Exterior base coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the exterior of a two-piece beverage can body. The exterior base coat provides corrosion resistance and a background for lithography or printing operations. The exterior base coat operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. The exterior base coat may be pigmented or clear (unpigmented).


(3) *Inside spray coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating to the interior of a two-piece beverage can body. This coating provides a protective film between the contents of the beverage can and the metal can body. The inside spray coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven. Multiple applications of an inside spray coating are considered to be a single coating operation.


(4) *Overvarnish coating operation* means the system on each beverage can surface coating line used to apply a coating over ink which reduces friction for automated beverage can filling equipment, provides gloss, and protects the finished beverage can body from abrasion and corrosion. The overvarnish coating is applied to two-piece beverage can bodies. The overvarnish coating operation consists of the coating application station, flashoff area, and curing oven.


(5) *Two-piece can* means any beverage can that consists of a body manufactured from a single piece of steel or aluminum and a top. Coatings for a two-piece can are usually applied after fabrication of the can body.


(6) *VOC content* means all volatile organic compounds (VOC) that are in a coating. VOC content is expressed in terms of kilograms of VOC per liter of coating solids.


(b) Notations used under ยง 60.493 of this subpart are defined below:



---

[N] [48 FR 38737, Aug. 25, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 61763, Oct. 17, 2000]




