# § 45.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, the following terms shall have the meanings given in this section, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words indicating the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not listed which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.45, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 45, Removal of Tobacco Products and Cigarette Papers and Tubes, Without Payment of Tax, for Use of the United States.


*Armed forces.* The Army, Navy (including the Marine Corps), Air Force, and Coast Guard.


*Charge of the United States.* A patient in a hospital or similar institution, or a Federal prisoner, if the hospital, institution, or prison is operated by a Federal agency and the support or care of such person results in a charge on, or an expense to, the United States Government.


*Chewing tobacco.* Any leaf tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.


*Cigar.* Any roll of tobacco wrapped in leaf tobacco or in any substance containing tobacco (other than any roll of tobacco which is a cigarette within the meaning of paragraph (2) of the definition for cigarette).


*Cigarette.* (1) Any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco, and


(2) Any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Cigarette paper.* Paper, or any other material except tobacco, prepared for use as a cigarette wrapper.


*Cigarette tube.* Cigarette paper made into a hollow cylinder for use in making cigarettes.


*Factory.* The premises of a manufacturer of tobacco products or cigarette papers and tubes in which the manufacturer carries on such business.


*Federal agency.* A department or agency of the United States Government, including the American National Red Cross, and the U.S. Soldiers Home, Washington, D.C.


*Large cigarettes.* Cigarettes weighing more than three pounds per thousand.


*Large cigars.* Cigars weighing more than three pounds per thousand.


*Manufacturer of cigarette papers and tubes.* Any person who manufactures cigarette paper, or makes up cigarette paper into tubes, except for their own personal use or consumption. 


*Manufacturer of tobacco products.* Any person who manufactures cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, or roll-your-own tobacco but does not include:


(1) A person who produces tobacco products solely for that person's own consumption or use; or


(2) A proprietor of a customs bonded manufacturing warehouse with respect to the operation of such warehouse.


*Package.* The immediate container in which tobacco products, processed tobacco, or cigarette papers or tubes are put up by the manufacturer and offered for sale or delivery to the ultimate consumer. For purposes of this definition, a container of processed tobacco, the contents of which weigh 10 pounds or less (including any added non-tobacco ingredients or constituents), that is removed within the meaning of this part, is deemed to be a package offered for sale or delivery to the ultimate consumer.


*Person.* An individual, partnership, association, company, corporation, estate, or trust.


*Pipe tobacco.* Any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco to be smoked in a pipe.


*Removal or remove.* The removal of tobacco products or cigarette papers or tubes from the factory.


*Roll-your-own tobacco.* Any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes or cigars, or for use as wrappers thereof.


*Sale price.* The price for which large cigars are sold by the manufacturer or importer, determined in accordance with §§ 40.22 or 41.39 and used in computation of the tax.


*Small cigarettes.* Cigarettes weighing not more than three pounds per thousand.


*Small cigars.* Cigars weighing not more than three pounds per thousand.


*Smokeless tobacco.* Any chewing tobacco or snuff.


*Snuff.* Any finely cut, ground, or powdered tobacco that is not intended to be smoked.


*This chapter.* Chapter I, title 27, Code of Federal Regulations.


*Tobacco products.* Cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pipe tobacco, and roll-your-own tobacco.


*United States.* When used in a geographical sense shall include only the States and the District of Columbia.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13557, Mar. 31, 1978] 


