# § 1.919   Ownership information.

(a) Applicants or licensees in Wireless Radio Services that are subject to the ownership reporting requirements of § 1.2112 shall use FCC Form 602 to provide all ownership information required by the chapter. 


(b) Any applicant or licensee that is subject to the reporting requirements of § 1.2112 or § 1.2114 shall file an FCC Form 602, or file an updated form if the ownership information on a previously filed FCC Form 602 is not current, at the time it submits:


(1) An initial application for authorization (FCC Form 601);


(2) An application for license renewal (FCC Form 601);


(3) An application for assignment of authorization or transfer of control (FCC Form 603); or


(4) A notification of consummation of a *pro forma* assignment of authorization or transfer of control (FCC Form 603) under the Commission's forbearance procedures (see § 1.948(c) of this part).


(5) An application reporting any reportable eligibility event, as defined in § 1.2114.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) A single FCC Form 602 may be associated with multiple applications filed by the same applicant or licensee. If an applicant or licensee already has a current FCC Form 602 on file when it files an initial application, renewal application, application for assignment or transfer of control, or notification of a *pro forma* assignment or transfer, it may certify that it has a current FCC Form 602 on file.


(e) No filing fee is required to submit or update FCC Form 602.


(f) Applicants or licensees in Wireless Radio Services that are not subject to the ownership reporting requirements of § 1.2112 are not required to file FCC Form 602. However, such applicants and licensees may be required by the rules applicable to such services to disclose the real party (or parties) in interest to the application, including (as required) a complete disclosure of the identity and relationship of those persons or entities directly or indirectly owning or controlling (or both) the applicant or licensee.



---

[N] [63 FR 68923, Dec. 14, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 42995, July 21, 2003; 69 FR 75170, Dec. 15, 2004; 71 FR 26251, May 4, 2006; 79 FR 72150, Dec. 5, 2014]




