# § 1.6038D-1   Reporting with respect to specified foreign financial assets, definition of terms.

(a) *In general.* The following definitions apply for purposes of section 6038D and the regulations—


(1) *Specified person.* The term *specified person* means a specified individual or a specified domestic entity.


(2) *Specified individual.* The term *specified individual* means an individual who is a—


(i) U.S. citizen;


(ii) Resident alien of the United States for any portion of the taxable year;


(iii) Nonresident alien for whom an election under section 6013(g) or (h) is in effect; or


(iv) Nonresident alien who is a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico or a section 931 possession (as defined in § 1.931-1(c)(1)).


(3) *Resident alien.* The term *resident alien* has the meaning set forth in section 7701(b) and §§ 301.7701(b)-1 through 301.7701(b)-9 of this chapter.


(4) *Bona fide resident of a U.S. possession.* The term *bona fide resident of a U.S. possession* means an individual who is a “bona fide resident” under section 937(a) and § 1.937-1.


(5) *U.S. possession.* The term *U.S. possession* means American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(6) *Specified foreign financial asset.* The term *specified foreign financial asset* has the meaning set forth in § 1.6038D-3.


(7) *Financial account.* The term *financial account* has the meaning set forth in § 1.1471-5(b), provided, however, that the exclusions of retirement and pension accounts and non-retirement savings accounts under § 1.1471-5(b)(2)(i) and retirement and pension accounts, non-retirement savings accounts, and accounts satisfying similar conditions in an applicable Model 1 IGA or Model 2 IGA under § 1.1471-5(b)(2)(vi) shall not apply (see the section 6038D coordination rule in § 1.1471-5(b)(2)(i)(D)). See § 1.6038D-3(a)(2) relating to financial accounts maintained by a financial institution that is organized under the laws of a U.S. possession.


(8) *Financial institution.* The term *financial institution* has the meaning set forth in section 1471(d)(5) and the regulations thereunder.


(9) *Foreign financial institution.* The term *foreign financial institution* has the meaning set forth in § 1.1471-5(d).


(10) *Foreign entity.* The term *foreign entity* has the meaning set forth in § 1.1473-1(e).


(11) *Annual return.* The term *annual return* means an annual federal income tax return of a specified individual or an annual federal income tax return or information return of a specified domestic entity filed with the Internal Revenue Service under section 876, 6011, 6012, 6013, 6031, or 6037, and the regulations.


(12) *Specified domestic entity.* The term *specified domestic entity* has the meaning set forth in § 1.6038D-6.


(13) *Model 1 IGA* and *Model 2 IGA.* The terms *Model 1 IGA* and *Model 2 IGA* have the meanings set forth in § 1.1471-1(b)(78) and (79), respectively.


(b) *Effective/applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (b), this section applies to taxable years ending after December 19, 2011. Taxpayers may elect to apply the rules of this section to taxable years ending prior to December 19, 2011.


(2) *Financial accounts.* For purposes of applying the financial account definition in § 1.6038D-1(a)(7), the treatment under § 1.1471-5(b)(2)(vi) of retirement and pension accounts, non-retirement savings accounts, and accounts satisfying similar conditions in an applicable Model 1 IGA or Model 2 IGA (see § 1.1471-1(b)(78) and (79)) as financial accounts for purposes of the reporting required under section 6038D and § 1.6038D-2(a) shall apply to taxable years beginning after *December 12, 2014.*


---

[N] [T.D. 9706, 79 FR 73825, Dec. 12, 2014, as amended by T.D. 9752, 81 FR 8838, Feb. 23, 2016]




