# ยง 551.8   Inspection and reporting requirements for activities under a permit.

(a) *Inspection of permit activities.* You must allow BOEM representatives to inspect your exploration or scientific research activities under a permit. They will determine whether operations are adversely affecting the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area. BOEM will reimburse you for food, quarters, and transportation that you provide for BOEM representatives if you send in your reimbursement request to the Region that issued the permit within 90 days of the inspection.


(b) *Approval for modifications.* Before you begin modified operations, you must submit a written request describing the modifications and receive the Regional Director's oral or written approval. If circumstances preclude a written request, you must make an oral request and follow up in writing.


(c) *Reports.* (1) You must submit status reports on a schedule specified in the permit and include a daily log of operations.


(2) You must submit a final report of exploration or scientific research activities under a permit within 30 days after the completion of acquisition activities under the permit. You may combine the final report with the last status report and must include each of the following:


(i) A description of the work performed.


(ii) Charts, maps, plats, and digital navigational data in a format specified by the Regional Director, showing the areas and blocks in which any exploration or permitted scientific research activities were conducted. Identify the lines of geophysical traverses and their locations including a reference sufficient to identify the data produced during each activity.


(iii) The dates on which you conducted the actual exploration or scientific research activities.


(iv) A summary of any:


(A) Hydrocarbon or sulphur occurrences encountered;


(B) Environmental hazards; and


(C) Adverse effects of the exploration or scientific research activities on the environment, aquatic life, archaeological resources, or other uses of the area in which the activities were conducted.


(v) Other descriptions of the activities conducted as specified by the Regional Director.




