# § 319.56-4   Authorization of certain fruits and vegetables for importation.

(a) *Determination by the Administrator.* No fruit or vegetable is authorized importation into the United States unless the Administrator has determined that the risk posed by each quarantine pest associated with the fruit or vegetable can be reasonably mitigated by the application of one or more phytosanitary measures designated by the Administrator and the fruit or vegetable is imported into the United States in accordance with, and as stipulated in, the permit issued by the Administrator.


(b) *Designated phytosanitary measures.* (1) The fruits and vegetables are subject to phytosanitary treatments, which could include, but are not limited to, pest control treatments in the field or growing site, and post-harvest treatments.


(2) The fruits and vegetables are subject to growing area pest mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to detection surveys, trapping requirements, pest exclusionary structures, and field inspections.


(3) The fruits and vegetables are subject to safeguarding and movement mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to, safeguarded transport, box labeling, limited distribution, insect-proof boxes, and importation as commercial consignments only.


(4) The fruits and vegetables are subject to administrative mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to, registered fields or orchards, registered growing sites, registered packinghouses, inspection in the country of origin by an inspector or an official of the national plant protection organization of the exporting country, and operational workplan monitoring.


(5) The fruits and vegetables are subject to any other measures deemed appropriate by the Administrator.


(c) *Authorized fruits and vegetables*—(1) *Comprehensive list.* The name and origin of all fruits and vegetables authorized importation under this section, as well as the applicable requirements for their importation, may be found on the internet at *https://acir.aphis.usda.gov/s/”*

(2) *Fruits and vegetables authorized importation prior to October 15, 2018.* Fruits and vegetables that were authorized importation under this subpart either directly by permit or by specific regulation as of October 15, 2018 may continue to be imported into the United States under the same requirements that applied before October 15, 2018, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) *Other fruits and vegetables.* Fruits and vegetables not already authorized for importation as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be authorized importation only after:


(i) APHIS has analyzed the pest risk posed by the importation of a fruit or vegetable from a specified foreign region and has determined that the risk posed by each quarantine pest associated with the fruit or vegetable can be reasonably mitigated by the application of one or more phytosanitary measures;


(ii) APHIS has made its pest risk analysis and determination available for public comment for at least 60 days through a notice published in the _Federal Register_; and


(iii) The Administrator has announced his or her decision in a subsequent _Federal Register_ notice to authorize the importation of the fruit or vegetable subject to the phytosanitary measures specified in the notice.


(4) *Changes to phytosanitary measures.* (i) If the Administrator determines that the phytosanitary measures required for a fruit or vegetable that has been authorized importation under this subpart are no longer sufficient to reasonably mitigate the pest risk posed by the fruit or vegetable, APHIS will prohibit or further restrict importation of the fruit or vegetable. APHIS will also publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ advising the public of its finding. The notice will specify the amended importation requirements, provide an effective date for the change, and will invite public comment on the subject.


(ii) If the Administrator determines that any of the phytosanitary measures required for a fruit or vegetable that has been authorized importation under this subpart are no longer necessary to reasonably mitigate the pest risk posed by the fruit or vegetable, APHIS will make new pest risk documentation available for public comment, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, prior to allowing importation of the fruit or vegetable subject to the phytosanitary measures specified in the notice.



---

[N] [83 FR 46638, Sept. 14, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 79734, Oct. 1, 2024]




