# § 141.703   Sampling locations.

(a) Systems required to conduct source water monitoring under § 141.701 must collect samples for each plant that treats a surface water or GWUDI source. Where multiple plants draw water from the same influent, such as the same pipe or intake, the State may approve one set of monitoring results to be used to satisfy the requirements of § 141.701 for all plants.


(b)(1) Systems must collect source water samples prior to chemical treatment, such as coagulants, oxidants and disinfectants, unless the system meets the condition of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) The State may approve a system to collect a source water sample after chemical treatment. To grant this approval, the State must determine that collecting a sample prior to chemical treatment is not feasible for the system and that the chemical treatment is unlikely to have a significant adverse effect on the analysis of the sample.


(c) Systems that recycle filter backwash water must collect source water samples prior to the point of filter backwash water addition.


(d) *Bank filtration.* (1) Systems that receive *Cryptosporidium* treatment credit for bank filtration under § 141.173(b) or § 141.552(a), as applicable, must collect source water samples in the surface water prior to bank filtration.


(2) Systems that use bank filtration as pretreatment to a filtration plant must collect source water samples from the well (*i.e.*, after bank filtration). Use of bank filtration during monitoring must be consistent with routine operational practice. Systems collecting samples after a bank filtration process may not receive treatment credit for the bank filtration under § 141.717(c).


(e) *Multiple sources.* Systems with plants that use multiple water sources, including multiple surface water sources and blended surface water and ground water sources, must collect samples as specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section. The use of multiple sources during monitoring must be consistent with routine operational practice.


(1) If a sampling tap is available where the sources are combined prior to treatment, systems must collect samples from the tap.


(2) If a sampling tap where the sources are combined prior to treatment is not available, systems must collect samples at each source near the intake on the same day and must follow either paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section for sample analysis.


(i) Systems may composite samples from each source into one sample prior to analysis. The volume of sample from each source must be weighted according to the proportion of the source in the total plant flow at the time the sample is collected.


(ii) Systems may analyze samples from each source separately and calculate a weighted average of the analysis results for each sampling date. The weighted average must be calculated by multiplying the analysis result for each source by the fraction the source contributed to total plant flow at the time the sample was collected and then summing these values.


(f) *Additional Requirements.* Systems must submit a description of their sampling location(s) to the State at the same time as the sampling schedule required under § 141.702. This description must address the position of the sampling location in relation to the system's water source(s) and treatment processes, including pretreatment, points of chemical treatment, and filter backwash recycle. If the State does not respond to a system regarding sampling location(s), the system must sample at the reported location(s).




