# § 412.107   Special treatment: Hospitals that receive an additional update for FYs 1998 and 1999.

(a) *Additional payment update.* A hospital that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section receives the following increase to its applicable percentage amount set forth in § 412.63 (p) and (q): 


(1) For FY 1998, 0.5 percent. 


(2) For FY 1999, 0.3 percent. 


(b) *Criteria for classification.* A hospital is eligible for the additional payment update set forth in paragraph (a) of this section if it meets all of the following criteria: 


(1) *Definition.* The hospital is not a Medicare-dependent, small rural hospital as defined in § 412.108(a) and does not receive any additional payment under the following provisions: 


(i) The indirect medical education adjustment made under § 412.105. 


(ii) The disproportionate share adjustment made under § 412.106. 


(2) *State criteria.* The hospital is located in a State in which the aggregate payment made under § 412.112 (a) and (c) for hospitals described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for their cost reporting periods beginning in FY 1995 is less than the allowable operating costs described in § 412.2(c) for those hospitals. 


(3) *Hospital criteria.* The aggregate payment made to the hospital under § 412.112 (a) and (c) for the hospital's cost reporting period beginning in the fiscal year in which the additional payment update described in paragraph (a) of this section is made is less than the allowable operating cost described in § 412.2(c) for that hospital.



---

[N] [62 FR 46030, Aug. 29, 1997]




