# § 1.1038-3   Election to have section 1038 apply for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957.

(a) *In general.* If an election is made in the manner provided by paragraph (b) of this section, the applicable provisions of §§ 1.1038-1 and 1.1038-2 shall apply to all reacquisitions of real property occurring in each and every taxable year beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, for which the assessment of a deficiency, or the credit or refund of an overpayment, is not prevented on September 2, 1964, by the operation of any law or rule of law. The election so made shall apply to all taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, for which the assessment of a deficiency, or the credit or refund of an overpayment, is not prevented on September 2, 1964, by the operation of any law or rule of law and shall apply to every reacquisition occurring in such taxable years. The fact that the assessment of a deficiency, or the credit or refund of an overpayment, is prevented for any other taxable year or years affected by the election will not prohibit the making of an election under this section. For example, if an individual who uses the calendar year as the taxable year were to sell in 1960 real property used as his principal residence in respect of the sale of which gain is not recognized under section 1034, and if such property were reacquired by the seller in 1962 and resold within 1 year, he would be permitted to make an election under this section with respect to such reacquisition even though on September 2, 1964, the period of limitations on assessment or refund has run for 1960. An election under this section shall be deemed a consent to the application of the provisions of this section.


(b) *Time and manner of making election*—(1) *In general.* (i) An election to have the provisions of § 1.1038-2 apply to reacquisitions of real property occurring in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, shall be made by filing on or before September 3, 1965, a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for each taxable year in which the resale of such real property occurs. If the return for any such year is not due on or before such date and has not been filed, the election with respect to such taxable year shall be made by filing on or before such date the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.


(ii) An election to have the provisions of § 1.1038-1 apply to reacquisitions of real property occurring in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, shall be made by filing on or before September 3, 1965, a return, an amended return, or a claim for refund, whichever is proper, for each taxable year in which such reacquisitions occur. If the return for any such year is not due on or before such date and has not been filed, the election with respect to such taxable year shall be made by filing on or before such date the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.


(iii) If the facts are such that § 1.1038-2 applies to a reacquisition of property except that the reacquisition occurs in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1957, and before September 3, 1964, an election may not be made under this paragraph to have the provisions of § 1.1038-1 apply to such reacquisition.


(iv) Once made, an election under this paragraph may not be revoked after September 3, 1965. To any return, amended return, or claim for refund filed under this subparagraph there shall be attached the statement described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.


(2) *Statement to be attached.* The statement described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall indicate—


(i) The name, address and account number of the taxpayer, and the fact that the taxpayer is electing to have the provisions of section 1038 apply to the reacquisitions of real property,


(ii) The taxable years in which the reacquisitions of property occur and any other taxable year or years the tax for which is affected by the application of section 1038 to such reacquisitions,


(iii) The office of the district director where the return or returns for such taxable year or years were or will be filed,


(iv) The dates on which such return or returns were filed and on which the tax for such taxable year or years was paid,


(v) The type of real property reacquired, the terms under which such property was sold and reacquired, and an indication of whether the taxpayer is applying the provisions of § 1.1038-2 to the reacquisition of such property,


(vi) If § 1.1038-2 is being applied to the reacquisition, the terms under which the old residence was resold and, if applicable, the terms under which the new residence was sold, and


(vii) The office where, and the date when, the election to apply section 121 in respect to any sale of such property was or will be made.


(3) *Place for filing.* Any claim for refund, amended return, or statement, filed under this paragraph in respect of any taxable year, whether the taxable year in which occurs the reacquisition of property or the taxable year in which occurs the resale of the old residence, shall be filed in the office of the district director in which the return for such taxable year was or will be filed.


(c) *Extension of period of limitations on assessment or refund*—(1) *Assessment of tax.* If an election is properly made under paragraph (b) of this section and the assessment of a deficiency for the taxable years to which such election applies is not prevented on September 2, 1964, by the operation of any law or rule of law, the period within which a deficiency for such taxable years may be assessed shall, to the extent such deficiency is attributable to the application of section 1038, not expire prior to one year after the date on which such election is made.


(2) *Refund of tax.* If an election is properly made under paragraph (b) of this section and the credit or refund of any overpayment for the taxable years to which such election applies is not prevented on September 2, 1964, by the operation of any law or rule of law, the period within which a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment for such taxable years may be filed shall, to the extent such overpayment is attributable to the application of section 1038, not expire prior to one year after the date on which such election is made.


(d) *Payment of interest for period prior to September 2, 1964.* No interest shall be payable with respect to any deficiency attributable to the application of the provisions of section 1038, and no interest shall be allowed with respect to any credit or refund of any overpayment attributable to the application of such section, for any period prior to September 2, 1964. See section 2(c)(3) of the Act of September 2, 1964 (Pub. L. 88-750, 78 Stat. 856).



---

[N] [T.D. 6916, 32 FR 5930, Apr. 13, 1967]




