# § 250.1201   Definitions.

Terms not defined in this section have the meanings given in the applicable chapter of the API MPMS, which is incorporated by reference in § 250.198. Terms used in Subpart L have the following meaning:


*Allocation meter*—a meter used to determine the portion of hydrocarbons attributable to one or more platforms, leases, units, or wells, in relation to the total production from a royalty or allocation measurement point.


*API MPMS*—the American Petroleum Institute's Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, chapters 1, 20, and 21.


*British Thermal Unit (Btu)*—the amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit (59.5 °F) to 60.5 degrees Fahrenheit (60.5 °F) at standard pressure base (14.73 pounds per square inch absolute (psia)).


*Compositional Analysis*—separating mixtures into identifiable components expressed in mole percent.


*Force majeure event*—an event beyond your control such as war, act of terrorism, crime, or act of nature which prevents you from operating the wells and meters on your OCS facility.


*Gas lost*—gas that is neither sold nor used on the lease or unit nor used internally by the producer.


*Gas processing plant*—an installation that uses any process designed to remove elements or compounds (hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon) from gas, including absorption, adsorption, or refrigeration. Processing does not include treatment operations, including those necessary to put gas into marketable conditions such as natural pressure reduction, mechanical separation, heating, cooling, dehydration, desulphurization, and compression. The changing of pressures or temperatures in a reservoir is not processing.


*Gas processing plant statement*—a monthly statement showing the volume and quality of the inlet or field gas stream and the plant products recovered during the period, volume of plant fuel, flare and shrinkage, and the allocation of these volumes to the sources of the inlet stream.


*Gas royalty meter malfunction*—an error in any component of the gas measurement system which exceeds contractual tolerances.


*Gas volume statement*—a monthly statement showing gas measurement data, including the volume (Mcf) and quality (Btu) of natural gas which flowed through a meter.


*Inventory tank*—a tank in which liquid hydrocarbons are stored prior to royalty measurement. The measured volumes are used in the allocation process.


*Liquid hydrocarbons (free liquids)*—hydrocarbons which exist in liquid form at standard conditions after passing through separating facilities.


*Malfunction factor*—a liquid hydrocarbon royalty meter factor that differs from the previous meter factor by an amount greater than 0.0025.


*Natural gas*—a highly compressible, highly expandable mixture of hydrocarbons which occurs naturally in a gaseous form and passes a meter in vapor phase.


*Operating meter*—a royalty or allocation meter that is used for gas or liquid hydrocarbon measurement for any period during a calibration cycle.


*Pipeline (retrograde) condensate*—liquid hydrocarbons which drop out of the separated gas stream at any point in a pipeline during transmission to shore.


*Pressure base*—the pressure at which gas volumes and quality are reported. The standard pressure base is 14.73 psia.


*Prove*—to determine (as in meter proving) the relationship between the volume passing through a meter at one set of conditions and the indicated volume at those same conditions.


*Royalty meter*—a meter approved for the purpose of determining the volume of gas, oil, or other components removed, saved, or sold from a Federal lease.


*Royalty tank*—an approved tank in which liquid hydrocarbons are measured and upon which royalty volumes are based.


*Run ticket*—the invoice for liquid hydrocarbons measured at a royalty point.


*Sales meter*—a meter at which custody transfer takes place (not necessarily a royalty meter).


*Seal*—a device or approved method used to prevent tampering with royalty measurement components.


*Standard conditions*—atmospheric pressure of 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute (psia) and 60 °F.


*Surface commingling*—the surface mixing of production from two or more leases and/or unit participating areas prior to royalty measurement.


*Temperature base*—the temperature at which gas and liquid hydrocarbon volumes and quality are reported. The standard temperature base is 60 °F.


*Verification/Calibration*—testing and correcting, if necessary, a measuring device to ensure compliance with industry accepted, manufacturer's recommended, or regulatory required standard of accuracy.


*You or your*—the lessee or the operator or other lessees' representative engaged in operations in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS).




