# § 17.63   Economic hardship permits.

Upon receipt of a complete application, the Director may issue a permit authorizing any activity otherwise prohibited by § 17.61, in accordance with Section 10(b) of the Act and the issuance criteria of this section, in order to prevent undue economic hardship. No such exemption may be granted for the importation or exportation of a species also listed in Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, if the specimen would be used in a commercial activity.


(a) *Application requirements.* An application for a permit under this section must be submitted to the Director by the person allegedly suffering undue economic hardship because his desired activity is prohibited. The application must be submitted on an official application form (Form 3-200) provided by the Service, or must contain the general information and certification required by § 13.12(a) of this subchapter. It must include, as an attachment, all of the information required in § 17.62 plus the following additional information.


(1) The possible legal or economic alternatives to the activity sought to be authorized by the permit.


(2) A full statement, accompanied by copies of all relevant correspondence, showing the applicant's involvement with the plant sought to be covered by the permit (as well as his involvement with similar plants). The applicant should include information on that portion of his income derived from activities involving such plants in relation to the balance of his income during the calendar year immediately preceding either the _Federal Register_ notice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as Endangered, whichever is earlier.


(3) Where applicable, proof of a contract or other binding legal obligation which:


(i) Deals specifically with the plant sought to be covered by the permit;


(ii) Became binding prior to the date of the _Federal Register_ notice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as endangered, whichever is earlier; and


(iii) Will cause monetary loss of a given dollar amount if the permit sought under this section is not granted.


(b) *Issuance criteria.* Upon receiving an application completed in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Director will decide whether or not a permit should be issued for economic hardship, as defined in section 10(b) of the Act. In making his decision, the Director shall consider, in addition to the general criteria in § 13.21(b) of this subchapter, the following factors:


(1) Whether the purpose for which the permit is requested will significantly affect the survival of the species in the wild;


(2) The economic, legal, or other alternatives or relief available to the applicant;


(3) The amount of evidence that the applicant was in fact party to a contract or other binding legal obligation which:


(i) Deals specifically with the plant sought to be covered by the permit; and


(ii) Became binding prior to the date of the _Federal Register_ notice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as endangered, whichever is earlier;


(4) The severity of economic hardship which the contract or other binding legal obligation referred to in paragraph (b)(3) of this section would cause if the permit were denied;


(5) Where applicable, the portion of the applicant's income which would be lost if the permit were denied, and the relationship of that portion to the balance of his income.


(c) *Permit conditions.* In addition to the general conditions set forth in part 13 of this subchapter, every permit issued under this section may be subject to any of the following special conditions:


(1) If requested, the permittee shall submit to the Director a written report of the activities authorized by the permit. Such report must be postmarked by the date specified in the permit or otherwise requested by the Director.


(2) If requested, the permittee shall report to the Service's office designated in the permit the death, destruction or loss of all living plants covered by the permit. Such report must be postmarked by the date specified in the permit or otherwise requested by the Director.


(d) *Duration of permit.* The duration of a permit issued under this section shall be designated on the face of the permit. No permit issued under this section shall be valid for more than one year from the date of a _Federal Register_ notice of review of the status of the species or proposed rulemaking to list the species as endangered, whichever is earlier.



---

[N] [44 FR 54060, Sept. 18, 1979]




