# § 164.019-5   Standard components; acceptance criteria and procedures.

(a) *General.* Standard components used in the construction of PFDs must meet the applicable requirements of this part or part 160 and the documentation requirements of this section.


(b) *Use Codes.* Each standard component is assigned a Use Code as indicated in table 164.019-3. Additional Use Codes may be assigned by the Commandant.


(c) *Method and documentation of acceptance.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the following requirements pertaining to the shipment of standard components must be met in order for the standard components to be considered Coast Guard-accepted standard components:


(1) Each shipment of standard components must be accompanied by an affidavit complying with § 164.019-11.


(2) A sample affidavit, or a copy of the affidavit, provided with the first shipment of standard components to a PFD manufacturer, must be provided to the Commandant.


(3) A revised sample affidavit, or a copy of the revised affidavit, must be provided to the Coast Guard any time the information on the affidavit accompanying a shipment of standard components materially changes.


(d) *Exception.* Affidavits are not required to be provided for standard components that are under the quality control oversight program of a recognized laboratory meeting the requirements of § 164.019-17.


(e) *Suspension or termination of acceptance.* The procedures in §§ 2.75-40 and 2.75-50 of this chapter for suspension and termination of approvals also apply to Coast Guard acceptances of PFD components.




