# ยง 3177.9   Design requirements for pits.

(a) Pits shall be designed to meet the following requirements and minimum standards. For unlined pits approved under criterion in ยง 3177.8(b)(1)(iv), requirements in paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section, do not apply.


(1) As much as practical, the pit shall be located on level ground and away from established drainage patterns, including intermittent/ephemeral drainage ways, and unstable ground or depressions in the area.


(2) The pit shall have adequate storage capacity for safe containment of all produced water, even in those periods when evaporation rates are at a minimum. The design shall provide for a minimum of 2 feet of free-board.


(3) The pit shall be fenced or enclosed to prevent access by livestock, wildlife, and unauthorized personnel. If necessary, the pit shall be equipped to deter entry by birds. Fences shall not be constructed on the levees. Figure 1 in appendix A to this subpart shows an example of an acceptable fence design.


(4) The pit levees are to be constructed so that the inside grade of the levee is no steeper than 1 (vertical):2 (horizonal), and the outside grade no steeper than 1:3.


(5) The top of levees shall be level and at least 18 inches wide.


(6) The pit location shall be reclaimed pursuant to the requirements and standards of the surface management agency. On a spilt estate (private surface, Federal mineral) a surface owner's release statement or form is acceptable.


(b) Lined pits shall be designed to meet following requirement and minimum standards in addition to those specified in paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) The material used in lining pits shall be impervious. It shall be resistant to weather, sunlight, hydrocarbons, aqueous acids, alkalies, salt, fungi, or other substances likely to be contained in the produced water.


(2) If rigid materials are used, leak-proof expansion joints shall be provided, or the material shall be of sufficient thickness and length to withstand expansion without cracking, contraction, and settling movements in the underlying earth. Semi-rigid liners such as compacted bentonite or clay may also be used provided that, considering the thickness of the lining material chosen and its degree of permeability, the liner is impervious for the expected period of use. Figure 2 in appendix A to this subpart shows examples of acceptable standards for concrete, asphalt, and bentonite/clay liners.


(3) If flexible membrane materials are used, they shall have adequate resistance to tears or punctures. Figure 3 in appendix A to this subpart gives an example of acceptable standards for installation of the flexible membrane.


(4) Lined pits shall have an underlying gravel-filled sump and lateral system or other suitable devices for the detection of leaks. Examples of the acceptable design of the leak detection system are shown in Figures 4 and 5 of appendix A to this subpart.


(c) Failure to design the pit to meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and minimum standards in this subpart will result in disapproval of the proposal or a requirement that it be modified unless a request for variance is approved by the authorized officer.




