# ยง 1303.23   Parental rights.

(a) *Inspect record.* (1) A parent has the right to inspect child records.


(2) If the parent requests to inspect child records, the program must make the child records available within a reasonable time, but no more than 45 days after receipt of request.


(3) If a program maintains child records that contain information on more than one child, the program must ensure the parent only inspects information that pertains to the parent's child.


(4) The program shall not destroy a child record with an outstanding request to inspect and review the record under this section.


(b) *Amend record.* (1) A parent has the right to ask the program to amend information in the child record that the parent believes is inaccurate, misleading, or violates the child's privacy.


(2) The program must consider the parent's request and, if the request is denied, render a written decision to the parent within a reasonable time that informs the parent of the right to a hearing.


(c) *Hearing.* (1) If the parent requests a hearing to challenge information in the child record, the program must schedule a hearing within a reasonable time, notify the parent, in advance, about the hearing, and ensure the person who conducts the hearing does not have a direct interest in its outcome.


(2) The program must ensure the hearing affords the parent a full and fair opportunity to present evidence relevant to the issues.


(3) If the program determines from evidence presented at the hearing that the information in the child records is inaccurate, misleading, or violates the child's privacy, the program must either amend or remove the information and notify the parent in writing.


(4) If the program determines from evidence presented at the hearing that information in the child records is accurate, does not mislead, or otherwise does not violate the child's privacy, the program must inform the parent of the right to place a statement in the child records that either comments on the contested information or that states why the parent disagrees with the program's decision, or both.


(d) *Right to copy of record.* The program must provide a parent, free of charge, an initial copy of child records disclosed to third parties with parental consent and, upon parent request, an initial copy of child records disclosed to third parties, unless the disclosure was for a court that ordered neither the subpoena, its contents, nor the information furnished in response be disclosed.


(e) *Right to inspect written agreements.* A parent has the right to review any written agreements with third parties.




