# § 4901.14   Action on request.

(a) *Time for action.* Promptly and in any event within 20 working days after receipt of a disclosure request (subject to extension under § 4901.16), the Disclosure Officer will take action with respect to each requested item (or portion of an item) under either paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section. Following receipt, PBGC may ask the requester for information once and toll the 20-day period until PBGC receives such information.


(b) *Request granted.* If the Disclosure Officer determines that the disclosure request will be granted, PBGC will so advise the requester and will promptly make the records available to the requester. PBGC will accommodate any specification of the preferred form or format for the sought record as stated in the request, if the record is readily reproducible in the preferred form or format.


(c) *Request denied.* If the Disclosure Officer determines that the disclosure request will be denied, PBGC will so advise the requester in writing with a brief statement of the reasons for the denial, including, if applicable, a reference to the specific exemption(s) authorizing the denial and an explanation of how each such exemption applies to the matter withheld.


(d) *Records not located.* If the Disclosure Officer determines that, despite a reasonably calculated search to uncover all relevant documents, the requested records could not be located, PBGC will issue a “no-records” response, and so advise the requester in writing.


(e) *Information for requester.* Written responses issued under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section will include the name and title of the person(s) responsible for the denial, outline the appeal procedure available, and notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from a PBGC FOIA Public Liaison or the Office of Government Information Services.



---

[N] [87 FR 43995, July 25, 2022]




