# § 4288.20   Submittal of applications.

(a) *Address to make application.* Application must be submitted to USDA, Rural Development-Energy Division, Program Branch, Attention: Repowering Assistance Program, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Stop 3225, Washington, DC 20250-3225.


(b) *Content and form of submission.* Applicants must submit a signed original and one copy of an application containing the information specified in this section. The applicant must also furnish the Agency the required documentation identified in Form RD 4288-4, “Repowering Assistance Program Application,” to verify compliance with program provisions before acceptance into the program. Note that applicants are required to have a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) (unless the applicant is an individual). Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at *https://sam.gov/.* Applicants must submit to the Agency the documents specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.




(1) *Form RD 4288-4.* Applicants must submit this form and all necessary attachments providing project information on the biorefinery; the facility at which the biorefinery operates, including location and products produced; and the types and quantities of renewable biomass feedstock being proposed to produce heat or power. This form requires the applicant to provide relevant data to allow for technical analysis of their existing facility to demonstrate replacement of fossil fuel by renewable biomass with reasonable costs and maximum efficiencies. The applicant must also submit evidence that the biorefinery was in existence on or before June 18, 2008. The applicant is required to certify the information provided.


(2) RD Instruction 1940-Q, Exhibit A-1, “Certification for Contracts, Grants and Loans.”


(3) Form RD 400-1.


(4) Form RD 400-4.


(5) Environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(6) Certifications. The applicant must furnish the Agency all required certifications before acceptance into the program, and furnish access to records required by the Agency to verify compliance with program provisions. The applicant must submit forms or other written documentation certifying to the following:


(i) AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions” or other written documentation.


(ii) AD-1048, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions” or other written documentation.


(iii) SF-LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.”


(c) *Application package contents.* Applicants are required to provide relevant data to allow for technical analysis of their existing facilities to demonstrate replacement of fossil fuel by renewable biomass with reasonable costs and maximum efficiencies. Applicants in existence on or before June 18, 2008 with more than 24 months of actual operating data must provide data for the most recent 24-month period. Applicants in existence on or before June 18, 2008 with less than 24 months of actual operating data must provide 12 months of data supported by engineering and design calculations, and site plans, prepared by the construction engineering firm. All applicants must submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(9) of this section as part of their application package.


(1) *Contact data.* Contact information for the primary technical contact for the biorefinery.


(2) *Biorefinery data.* Basic information on facility operations over time (hours/day, days/year).


(3) *Electric use data.* Information on existing electric service to the facility, data on consumption, peak and average demand, and monthly/seasonal use patterns.


(4) *Fuel use data.* Information on natural gas and current fuel use for boilers and heaters, including fuel type, costs, and use patterns.


(5) *Thermal loads.* Information on existing thermal loads, including type (steam, hot water, direct heat), conditions (temperature, pressure) and use patterns.


(6) *Existing equipment.* Information on existing heating and cooling equipment, including type, capacities, efficiencies and emissions.


(7) *Site-specific data.* Information on other site-specific issues, such as expansion plans or neighborhood considerations that might impact the proposed new system design or operation; or environmental impacts.


(8) *Biofuel and biobased product production.* Information on biofuel and biobased product production, including quantity and units of production.


(9) *Feasibility study.* The applicant must submit a feasibility study by an independent qualified consultant, which has no financial interest in the biorefinery, and demonstrates that the renewable biomass system of the biorefinery is feasible, taking into account the economic, technical and environmental aspects of the system. The feasibility study must include the components specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (c)(9)(x) of this section.


(i) An executive summary, including resume of the consultant, and an introduction/project overview (brief general overview of project location, size, *etc.*).


(ii) An economic feasibility determination, including:


(A) Information regarding the project site;


(B) Information on the availability of trained or trainable labor; and


(C) Information on the availability of infrastructure and rail and road service to the site.


(iii) A technical feasibility determination, including a report that:


(A) Describes the repowering project, including:


(*1*) Information on heating and cooling equipment, including type, capacities, efficiencies and emissions;


(*2*) Anticipated impacts of the repowering project on the information requested above relating to electric use data, fuel use data, thermal loads and biofuel and biobased product production; and


(*3*) A project development schedule as more fully described in § 4288.21(b)(4)(iv);


(B) Is based upon verifiable data and contains sufficient information and analysis so that a determination may be made on the technical feasibility of achieving the levels of energy production that are projected in the statements. The report must provide the information in a format that is responsive to the scoring criteria specified in § 4288.21(b)(1) through (5) and applicants should identify in their report the information that corresponds to each of the scoring criteria; and


(C) Identifies and estimates project operation and development costs and specifies the level of accuracy of these estimates and the assumptions on which these estimates have been based.


(iv) A financial feasibility determination that discusses the following:


(A) Repowering project construction funding, including repayment terms and security arrangements. Attach any documents relating to the project financing;


(B) The reliability of the financial projections and assumptions on which the project is based including all sources of project capital, both private and public, such as Federal funds;


(C) Projected balance sheets and costs associated with project operations;


(D) Cash flow projections for 3 years;


(E) The adequacy of raw materials and supplies;


(F) A sensitivity analysis, including feedstock and energy costs, product/co-product prices;


(G) Risks related to the project; and


(H) The continuity, maintenance and availability of records.


(v) A management feasibility determination.


(vi) Recommendations for implementation.


(vii) The environmental concerns and issues of the system.


(viii) The availability of feedstock, including discussions of:


(A) Feedstock source management;


(B) Estimates of feedstock volumes and costs;


(C) Collection, pre-treatment, transportation, and storage; and


(D) Impacts on existing manufacturing plants or other facilities that use similar feedstock.


(ix) The feasibility/plans of project to work with producer associations or cooperatives including estimated amount of annual feedstock from those entities.


(x) If woody biomass from National forest system lands or public lands is proposed as the feedstock, documentation must be provided that it cannot be used as a higher value wood-based product.



---

[N] [76 FR 7926, Feb. 11, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 11053, Mar. 2, 2016; 89 FR 34959, May 1, 2024]




