# § 688.120   What definitions apply to this part?

In addition to the definitions at sec. 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) and § 675.300 of this chapter, the following definitions apply:


*Adjusted income* means, with respect to a family, the amount (as determined by the Housing Development Agency) of the income of the members of the family residing in a dwelling unit or the persons on a lease, after any income exclusions as follows:


(1) *Mandatory exclusions.* In determining adjusted income, a Housing Development Agency must exclude from the annual income of a family the following amounts:


(i) *Elderly and disabled families.* $400 for any elderly or disabled family.


(ii) *Medical expenses.* The amount by which three percent of the annual family income is exceeded by the sum of:


(A) Unreimbursed medical expenses of any elderly family or disabled family;


(B) Unreimbursed medical expenses of any family that is not covered under paragraph (1)(ii)(A) of this definition, except that this paragraph (1)(ii)(B) only applies to the extent approved in appropriation Acts; and


(C) Unreimbursed reasonable attendant care and auxiliary apparatus expenses for each handicapped member of the family, to the extent necessary to enable any member of such family (including such handicapped member) to be employed.


(iii) *Child care expenses.* Any reasonable child care expenses necessary to enable a member of the family to be employed or to further his or her education.


(iv) *Minors, students, and persons with disabilities.* $480 for each member of the family residing in the household (other than the head of the household or his or her spouse) who is less than 18 years of age or is attending school or vocational training on a full-time basis, or who is 18 years of age or older and is a person with disabilities.


(v) *Child support payments.* Any payment made by a member of the family for the support and maintenance of any child who does not reside in the household, except that the amount excluded under this clause may not exceed $480 for each child for whom such payment is made; except that this clause only applies to the extent approved in appropriations Acts.


(vi) *Spousal support expenses.* Any payment made by a member of the family for the support and maintenance of any spouse or former spouse who does not reside in the household, except that the amount excluded under this clause must not exceed the lesser of the amount that such family member has a legal obligation to pay, or $550 for each individual for whom such payment is made; except that this clause only applies to the extent approved in appropriations Acts.


(vii) *Earned income of minors.* The amount of any earned income of a member of the family who is not:


(A) 18 years of age or older; and


(B) The head of the household (or the spouse of the head of the household).


(2) *Permissive exclusions for public housing.* In determining adjusted income, a Housing Development Agency may, at the discretion of the agency, establish exclusions from the annual income of a family residing in a public housing dwelling unit. Such exclusions may include the following amounts:


(i) *Excessive travel expenses.* Excessive travel expenses in an amount not to exceed $25 per family per week, for employment or education-related travel.


(ii) *Earned income.* An amount of any earned income of the family, established at the discretion of the Housing Development Agency, which may be based on:


(A) All earned income of the family,


(B) The amount earned by particular members of the family;


(C) The amount earned by families having certain characteristics; or


(D) The amount earned by families or members during certain periods or from certain sources.


(iii) *Others.* Such other amounts for other purposes, as the Housing Development Agency may establish.


*Applicant* means an eligible entity that has submitted an application under § 688.210.


*Basic skills deficient* means an individual:


(1) Who is a youth, and who has English reading, writing, or computing skills at or below the eighth grade level on a generally accepted standardized test; or


(2) Who is a youth or adult, and who is unable to compute or solve problems, or read, write, or speak English, at a level necessary to function on the job, in the individual's family, or in society.


*Community or other public facility* means those facilities which are either privately owned by non-profit organizations, including faith-based and community-based organizations, and publicly used for the benefit of the community, or publicly owned and publicly used for the benefit of the community.


*Construction Plus* means the inclusion of occupational skills training for YouthBuild participants in in-demand occupations other than construction.


*Eligible entity* means a public or private non-profit agency or organization (including a consortium of such agencies or organizations), including:


(1) A community-based organization;


(2) A faith-based organization;


(3) An entity carrying out activities under this title, such as a Local Workforce Development Board (WDB);


(4) A community action agency;


(5) A State or local Housing Development Agency;


(6) An Indian tribe or other agency primarily serving Indians;


(7) A community development corporation;


(8) A State or local youth service or conservation corps; and


(9) Any other entity eligible to provide education or employment training under a Federal program (other than the program carried out under this section).


*English language learner,* when used with respect to a participant, means an eligible individual who has limited ability in reading, writing, speaking, or comprehending the English language, and:


(1) Whose native language is a language other than English; or


(2) Who lives in a family or community environment where a language other than English is the dominant language.


*Exit,* as used in § 688.400, has the same meaning as in § 677.150(c) of this chapter.


*Follow-up services* include:


(1) The leadership development and supportive service activities listed in §§ 681.520 and 681.570 of this chapter;


(2) Regular contact with a youth participant's employer, including assistance in addressing work-related problems that arise;


(3) Assistance in securing better paying jobs, career development, and further education;


(4) Work-related peer support groups;


(5) Adult mentoring; and


(6) Services necessary to ensure the success of youth participants in employment and/or postsecondary education.


*Homeless child or youth* means an individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and includes a child or youth who:


(1) Is sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or a similar reason;


(2) Is living in a motel, hotel, trailer park, or campground due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;


(3) Is living in an emergency or transitional shelter, is abandoned in a hospital, or is awaiting foster care placement;


(4) Has a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;


(5) Is living in cars, parks, public spaces, abandoned buildings, substandard housing, bus or train stations, or similar settings; or


(6) Is a migratory child living in circumstances described in this definition.


*Homeless individual* means an individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence and includes an individual who:


(1) Is sharing the housing of other persons due to loss of housing, economic hardship, or similar reason;


(2) Is living in a motel, hotel, trailer park, or campground due to the lack of alternative adequate accommodations;


(3) Is living in an emergency or transitional shelter;


(4) Is abandoned in a hospital, or is awaiting foster care placement;


(5) Has a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as regular sleeping accommodation for human beings; or


(6) Is a migratory child living in circumstances described in this definition.


*Housing Development Agency* means any agency of a Federal, State or local government, or any private non-profit organization, that is engaged in providing housing for homeless individuals or low-income families.


*Income,* as defined in the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2)), means income is from all sources of each member of the household, as determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, except that any amounts not actually received by the family and any amounts which would be eligible for exclusion under sec. 1382b(a)(7) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, may not be considered as income under this definition.


*In-Demand Industry Sector or Occupation* means:


(1) An industry sector that has a substantial current or potential impact (including through jobs that lead to economic self-sufficiency and opportunities for advancement) on the State, regional, or local economy, as appropriate, and that contributes to the growth or stability of other supporting business, or the growth of other industry sectors; or


(2) An occupation that currently has or is projected to have a number of positions (including positions that lead to economic self-sufficiency and opportunities for advancement) in an industry sector so as to have a significant impact on the State, regional, or local economy, as appropriate.


*Indian,* as defined in the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b), means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe.


*Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Individual with a disability* means an individual with a disability as defined in sec. 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).


*Low-income family* means a family whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area unless the Secretary determines that a higher or lower ceiling is warranted. This definition includes families consisting of one person as defined by 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(3).


*Migrant youth* means a youth, or a youth who is the dependent of someone who, during the previous 12 months, has:


(1) Worked at least 25 days in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment;


(2) Made at least $800 from agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment, if at least 50 percent of his or her income came from such agricultural labor;


(3) Was employed at least 50 percent of his or her total employment in agricultural labor that is characterized by chronic unemployment or underemployment; or


(4) Was employed in agricultural labor that requires travel to a jobsite such that the farmworker is unable to return to a permanent place of residence within the same day.


*Needs-based payments* means additional payments beyond regular stipends for program participation that are based on defined needs that enable a youth to participate in the program.


*Occupational skills training* means an organized program of study that provides specific vocational skills that lead to proficiency in performing actual tasks and technical functions required by certain occupational fields at entry, intermediate, or advanced levels. Occupational skills training includes training programs that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials that align with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area. Such training must:


(1) Be outcome-oriented and focused on an occupational goal specified in the individual service strategy;


(2) Be of sufficient duration to impart the skills needed to meet the occupational goal; and


(3) Result in attainment of a recognized postsecondary credential.


*Offender* means an adult or juvenile who:


(1) Is or has been subject to any stage of the criminal justice process, and who may benefit from WIOA services; or


(2) Requires assistance in overcoming artificial barriers to employment resulting from a record of arrest or conviction.


*Participant* means an individual who has been determined eligible to participate in the YouthBuild program, and who enrolls in the program and receives services or training described in § 688.320.


*Pre-apprenticeship,* as defined in § 681.480 of this chapter, means a program designed to prepare individuals to enter and succeed in an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 *et seq.*) (referred to in this part as a “registered apprenticeship” or “registered apprenticeship program”) and includes the following elements:


(1) Training and curriculum that aligns with the skill needs of employers in the economy of the State or region involved;


(2) Access to educational and career counseling and other supportive services, directly or indirectly;


(3) Hands-on, meaningful learning activities that are connected to education and training activities, such as exploring career options, and understanding how the skills acquired through coursework can be applied toward a future career;


(4) Opportunities to attain at least one industry-recognized credential; and


(5) A partnership with one or more registered apprenticeship programs that assists in placing individuals who complete the pre-apprenticeship program in a registered apprenticeship program.


(6) YouthBuild programs that receive funding under this part are considered pre-apprenticeship programs under this definition.


*Recognized postsecondary credential* means a credential consisting of an industry-recognized certificate or certification, a certificate of completion of a registered apprenticeship, a license recognized by the State involved or Federal government, or an associate or baccalaureate degree.


*Registered apprenticeship program* means an apprenticeship program that:


(1) Is registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act” (50 Stat. 664; 20 U.S.C. 50 *et seq.*)); and


(2) Meets such other criteria as the Secretary may establish.


*School dropout* means an individual who no longer attends any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma or its State-recognized equivalent.


*Secondary school* means a nonprofit institutional day or residential school, including a public secondary charter school, that provides secondary education, as determined under State law, except that the term does not include any education beyond grade 12.


*Section 3* means a program described in sec. 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992.


*Supportive services* for youth, as defined in § 681.570 of this chapter, are services that enable an individual to participate in WIOA activities. These services include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) Linkages to community services;


(2) Assistance with transportation;


(3) Assistance with child care and dependent care;


(4) Referrals to child support;


(5) Assistance with housing;


(6) Needs-related payments;


(7) Assistance with educational testing;


(8) Reasonable accommodations for youth with disabilities;


(9) Referrals to health care;


(10) Assistance with uniforms or other appropriate work attire and work-related tools, including such items as eyeglasses and protective eye gear;


(11) Assistance with books, fees, school supplies, and other necessary items for students enrolled in postsecondary education classes; and


(12) Payments and fees for employment and training-related applications, tests, and certifications.


*Transitional housing* means housing provided to ease the movement of individuals and families experiencing homelessness to permanent housing within 24 months or such longer period.


*YouthBuild program* means any program that receives assistance under this part and provides disadvantaged youth with opportunities for employment, education, leadership development, service to the community, and training through the rehabilitation (which, for purposes of this part, includes energy efficiency enhancements) or construction of housing for homeless individuals and low-income families, and public facilities.


*Youth in foster care,* as defined in § 681.210 of this chapter, means an individual in foster care or who has aged out of the foster care system or who has attained 16 years of age and left foster care for kinship, guardianship, or adoption; or a child eligible for assistance under sec. 477 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 677), or in an out-of-home placement.




