# ยง 1.19   Document supply fees.

The United States Patent and Trademark Office will supply copies of the following patent-related documents upon payment of the fees indicated. Paper copies will be in black and white unless the original document is in color, a color copy is requested and the fee for a color copy is paid.


(a) Uncertified copies of patent application publications and patents:


(1) Printed copy of the paper portion of a patent application publication or patent including a design patent, statutory invention registration, or defensive publication document. Service includes preparation of copies by the Office within two to three business days and delivery by United States Postal Service; and preparation of copies by the Office within one business day of receipt and delivery to an Office Box or by electronic means (e.g., facsimile, electronic mail): $3.00


(2) Printed copy of a plant patent in color: $16.00.










(3) Color copy of a patent (other than a plant patent) or statutory invention registration containing a color drawing: $25.00


(b) Copies of Office documents to be provided in paper, or in electronic form, as determined by the Director (for other patent-related materials *see* ยง 1.21(k)):


(1) Copy of a patent application as filed, or a patent-related file wrapper and contents, stored in paper in a paper file wrapper, in an image format in an image file wrapper, or if color documents, stored in paper in an Artifact Folder:


(i) If provided on paper:


(A) Application as filed: $38.00.


(B) Copy Patent File Wrapper, Paper Medium, Any Number of Sheets: $312.00.








(C) [Reserved]


(D) Individual application documents, other than application as filed, per document: $27.00.








(ii) If provided on compact disc or other physical electronic medium in single order or if provided electronically (*e.g.,* by electronic transmission) other than on a physical electronic medium:


(A) Application as filed: $38.00.


(B) Copy Patent File Wrapper, Electronic, Any Medium, Any Size: $65.00.










(C) [Reserved]


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) If provided to a foreign intellectual property office pursuant to a bilateral or multilateral agreement (*see* ยง 1.14(h)): $0.00


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Copy of Office records, except copies available under paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section: $27.00.


(4) For assignment records, abstract of title and certification, per patent: $38.00.












(c) Library service (35 U.S.C. 13): For providing to libraries copies of all patents issued annually, per annum: $50.00


(d)-(e) [Reserved]


(f) Uncertified copy of a non-United States patent document, per document: $27.00.








(g) [Reserved]


(h) Copy of Patent Grant Single-Page TIFF Images (52 week subscription): $10,400.00


(i) Copy of Patent Grant Full-Text W/Embedded Images, Patent Application Publication Single-Page TIFF Images, or Patent Application Publication Full-Text W/Embedded Images (52 week subscription): $5,200.00



---

[N] [78 FR 4287, Jan. 18, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 65655, Oct. 27, 2015; 82 FR 52814, Nov. 14, 2017; 85 FR 46988, Aug. 3, 2020; 89 FR 92007, Nov. 20, 2024]










