# § 63.804   Compliance procedures and monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of an existing affected source subject to § 63.802(a)(1) shall comply with those provisions using any of the methods presented in § 63.804 (a)(1) through (a)(4). 


(1) Calculate the average VHAP content for all finishing materials used at the facility using Equation 1, and maintain a value of E no greater than 1.0;


(2) Use compliant finishing materials according to the following criteria: 


(i) Demonstrate that each stain, sealer, and topcoat has a VHAP content of no more than 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, and each thinner contains no more than 10.0 percent VHAP by weight by maintaining certified product data sheets for each coating and thinner; 


(ii) Demonstrate that each washcoat, basecoat, and enamel that is purchased pre-made, that is, it is not formulated onsite by thinning another finishing material, has a VHAP content of no more than 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, and each thinner contains no more than 10.0 percent VHAP by weight by maintaining certified product data sheets for each coating and thinner; and 


(iii) Demonstrate that each washcoat, basecoat, and enamel that is formulated at the affected source is formulated using a finishing material containing no more than 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids) and a thinner containing no more than 3.0 percent VHAP by weight. 


(3) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the value of E_ac_ in Equation 2 is no greater than 1.0. 


The value of E_bc_ in Equation 2 shall be calculated using Equation 1; or


(4) Use any combination of an averaging approach, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, compliant finishing materials, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and a control system, as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. 


(b) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.802(a)(2)(i) shall comply with the provisions by using compliant foam adhesives with a VHAP content no greater than 1.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.8 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied. 


(c) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.802(a)(2)(ii) shall comply with those provisions by using either of the methods presented in § 63.804 (c)(1) and (c)(2). 


(1) Use compliant contact adhesives with a VHAP content no greater than 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied; or 


(2) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the value of G_ac_ is no greater than 1.0.


(d) The owner or operator of a new affected source subject to § 63.802(b)(1) may comply with those provisions by using any of the following methods: 


(1) Calculate the average VHAP content across all finishing materials used at the facility using Equation 1, and maintain a value of E no greater than 0.8; 


(2) Use compliant finishing materials according to the following criteria: 


(i) Demonstrate that each sealer and topcoat has a VHAP content of no more than 0.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.8 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, each stain has a VHAP content of no more than 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, and each thinner contains no more than 10.0 percent VHAP by weight; 


(ii) Demonstrate that each washcoat, basecoat, and enamel that is purchased pre-made, that is, it is not formulated onsite by thinning another finishing material, has a VHAP content of no more than 0.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.8 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, and each thinner contains no more than 10.0 percent VHAP by weight; and 


(iii) Demonstrate that each washcoat, basecoat, and enamel that is formulated onsite is formulated using a finishing material containing no more than 0.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.8 lb VHAP/lb solids) and a thinner containing no more than 3.0 percent HAP by weight. 


(3) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the value of E_ac_ in Equation 4 is no greater than 0.8.


The value of E_bc_ in Equation 4 shall be calculated using Equation 1; or 


(4) Use any combination of an averaging approach, as described in (d)(1), compliant finishing materials, as described in (d)(2), and a control system, as described in (d)(3). 


(e) The owner or operator of a new affected source subject to § 63.802(b)(2) shall comply with the provisions using either of the following methods: 


(1) Use compliant contact adhesives with a VHAP content no greater than 0.2 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.2 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied; or 


(2) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the value of G_ac_ in Equation 3 is no greater than 0.2. 


(f) *Initial compliance.* (1) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(1) or (d)(1) shall submit the results of the averaging calculation (Equation 1) for the first month with the initial compliance status report required by § 63.807(b). The first month's calculation shall include data for the entire month in which the compliance date falls. For example, if the source's compliance date is November 21, 1997, the averaging calculation shall include data from November 1, 1997 to November 30, 1997. 


(2) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant stains, washcoats, sealers, topcoats, basecoats, enamels, and thinners, as applicable, are being used by the affected source. 


(3) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that are complying through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) and are applying coatings using continuous coaters shall demonstrate initial compliance by: 


(i) Submitting an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir and the VHAP content as calculated from records, and compliant thinners are being used; or 


(ii) Submitting an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir, are being used; the viscosity of the coating in the reservoir is being monitored; and compliant thinners are being used. The affected source shall also submit data that demonstrate that viscosity is an appropriate parameter for demonstrating compliance. 


(4) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(3) or (d)(3) shall demonstrate initial compliance by: 


(i) Submitting a monitoring plan that identifies each operating parameter to be monitored for the capture device and discusses why each parameter is appropriate for demonstrating continuous compliance; 


(ii) Conducting an initial performance test as required under § 63.7 using the procedures and test methods listed in §§ 63.7 and 63.805 (c) and (d) or (e); 


(iii) Calculating the overall control efficiency (R) following the procedures in § 63.805 (d) or (e); and 


(iv) Determining those operating conditions critical to determining compliance and establishing one or more operating parameters that will ensure compliance with the standard. 


(A) For compliance with a thermal incinerator, minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter. 


(B) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameter. 


(C) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the pressure drop across the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameters. 


(D) For compliance with a carbon adsorber, the operating parameters shall be the total regeneration mass stream flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration, or the concentration level of organic compounds exiting the adsorber, unless the owner or operator requests and receives approval from the Administrator to establish other operating parameters. 


(E) For compliance with a control device not listed in this section, one or more operating parameter values shall be established using the procedures identified in § 63.804(g)(4)(vi). 


(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.804(f)(4) shall calculate each site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the maximum or minimum operating parameter values, as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with the standards, during the three test runs required by § 63.805(c)(1). 


(5) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (b), (c)(1), or (e)(1), shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant contact adhesives are being used by the affected source. 


(6) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (c)(2) or (e)(2), shall demonstrate initial compliance by: 


(i) Submitting a monitoring plan that identifies each operating parameter to be monitored for the capture device and discusses why each parameter is appropriate for demonstrating continuous compliance; 


(ii) Conducting an initial performance test as required under § 63.7 using the procedures and test methods listed in §§ 63.7 and 63.805 (c) and (d) or (e);


(iii) Calculating the overall control efficiency (R) following the procedures in § 63.805 (d) or (e); and 


(iv) Determining those operating conditions critical to determining compliance and establishing one or more operating parameters that will ensure compliance with the standard. 


(A) For compliance with a thermal incinerator, minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter. 


(B) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst shall be the operating parameter. 


(C) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the pressure drop across the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameters. 


(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.804(f)(6) shall calculate each site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the maximum or minimum operating values as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with the standards, during the three test runs required by § 63.805(c)(1). 


(7) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(3) or (b)(3) shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant strippable spray booth coatings are being used by the affected source. 


(8) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the work practice standards in § 63.803 shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that the work practice implementation plan has been developed and procedures have been established for implementing the provisions of the plan. 


(g) *Continuous compliance demonstrations.* (1) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(1) or (d)(1) shall demonstrate continuous compliance by submitting the results of the averaging calculation (Equation 1) for each month within that semiannual period and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c). 


(i) The compliance certification shall state that the value of (E), as calculated by Equation 1, is no greater than 1.0 for existing sources or 0.8 for new sources. An affected source is in violation of the standard if E is greater than 1.0 for existing sources or 0.8 for new sources for any month. A violation of the monthly average is a separate violation of the standard for each day of operation during the month, unless the affected source can demonstrate through records that the violation of the monthly average can be attributed to a particular day or days during the period. 


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source. 


(2) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) shall demonstrate continuous compliance by using compliant coatings and thinners, maintaining records that demonstrate the coatings and thinners are compliant, and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c). 


(i) The compliance certification shall state that compliant stains, washcoats, sealers, topcoats, basecoats, enamels, and thinners, as applicable, have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period or should otherwise identify the periods of noncompliance and the reasons for noncompliance. An affected source is in violation of the standard whenever a noncompliant coating, as demonstrated by records or by a sample of the coating, is used. 


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source. 


(3) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that are complying through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) and are applying coatings using continuous coaters shall demonstrate continuous compliance by following the procedures in paragraph (g)(3) (i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) Using compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir and the VHAP content as calculated from records, using compliant thinners, and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c). 


(A) The compliance certification shall state that compliant coatings have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period, or should otherwise identify the days of noncompliance and the reasons for noncompliance. An affected source is in violation of the standard whenever a noncompliant coating, as determined by records or by a sample of the coating, is used. Use of a noncompliant coating is a separate violation for each day the noncompliant coating is used.


(B) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source.


(ii) Using compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir, using compliant thinners, maintaining a viscosity of the coating in the reservoir that is no less than the viscosity of the initial coating by monitoring the viscosity with a viscosity meter or by testing the viscosity of the initial coating and retesting the coating in the reservoir each time solvent is added, maintaining records of solvent additions, and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c). 


(A) The compliance certification shall state that compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir, have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period. Additionally, the certification shall state that the viscosity of the coating in the reservoir has not been less than the viscosity of the initial coating, that is, the coating that is initially mixed and placed in the reservoir, for any day in the semiannual reporting period. 


(B) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source. 


(C) An affected source is in violation of the standard when a sample of the as-applied coating exceeds the applicable limit established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2), as determined using EPA Method 311, or the viscosity of the coating in the reservoir is less than the viscosity of the initial coating. 


(4) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(3) or (d)(3) shall demonstrate continuous compliance by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating the appropriate monitoring equipment according to manufacturer's specifications. The owner or operator shall also submit the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.807(d) and § 63.10(e) of subpart A. 


(i) Where a capture/control device is used, a device to monitor each site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.804(f)(6)(i) is required. 


(ii) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required. 


(A) Where a thermal incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs. 


(B) Where a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed. 


(C) Where a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before the bed. In addition, a pressure monitoring device shall be installed to determine the pressure drop across the catalyst bed. The pressure drop shall be measured monthly at a constant flow rate. 


(iii) Where a carbon adsorber is used one of the following is required: 


(A) An integrating stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, having an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater, and capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle; 


(B) An organic monitoring device, equipped with a continuous recorder, to indicate the concentration level of organic compounds exiting the carbon adsorber; or 


(C) Any other monitoring device that has been approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.804(f)(4)(iv)(D). 


(iv) Owners or operators of an affected source shall not operate the capture or control device at a daily average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter values. The daily average value shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. 


(v) Owners or operators of an affected source that are complying through the use of a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed shall maintain a constant pressure drop, measured monthly, across the catalyst bed. 


(vi) An owner or operator who uses a control device not listed in § 63.804(f)(4) shall submit, for the Administrator's approval, a description of the device, test data verifying performance, and appropriate site-specific operating parameters that will be monitored to demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard. 


(5) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2) (i) or (ii) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (b), (c)(1), or (e)(1), shall submit a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c). 


(i) The compliance certification shall state that compliant contact and/or foam adhesives have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period, or should otherwise identify each day noncompliant contact and/or foam adhesives were used. Each day a noncompliant contact or foam adhesive is used is a single violation of the standard. 


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source. 


(6) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (c)(2) or (e)(2), shall demonstrate continuous compliance by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating the appropriate monitoring equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications. The owner or operator shall also submit the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.807(d) and § 63.10(e) of subpart A of this part. 


(i) Where a capture/control device is used, a device to monitor each site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.804(f)(6)(i) is required.


(ii) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required. 


(A) Where a thermal incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs. 


(B) Where a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed. 


(C) Where a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before the bed. In addition, a pressure monitoring device shall be installed to measure the pressure drop across the catalyst bed. The pressure drop shall be measured monthly at a constant flow rate. 


(iii) Where a carbon adsorber is used one of the following is required: 


(A) An integrating stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, having an accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored or ±0.5 °C, whichever is greater, and capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle;


(B) An organic monitoring device, equipped with a continuous recorder, to indicate the concentration level of organic compounds exiting the carbon adsorber; or


(C) Any other monitoring device that has been approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.804(f)(4)(iv)(D).


(iv) Owners or operators of an affected source shall not operate the capture or control device at a daily average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter values. The daily average value shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day.


(v) Owners or operators of an affected source that are complying through the use of a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed shall maintain a constant pressure drop, measured monthly, across the catalyst bed.


(vi) An owner or operator using a control device not listed in this section shall submit to the Administrator a description of the device, test data verifying the performance of the device, and appropriate operating parameter values that will be monitored to demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard. Compliance using this device is subject to the Administrator's approval.


(7) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(3) or (b)(3) shall submit a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c).


(i) The compliance certification shall state that compliant strippable spray booth coatings have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period, or should otherwise identify each day noncompliant materials were used. Each day a noncompliant strippable booth coating is used is a single violation of the standard.


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source.


(8) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the work practice standards in § 63.803 shall submit a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c).


(i) The compliance certification shall state that the work practice implementation plan is being followed, or should otherwise identify the provisions of the plan that have not been implemented and each day the provisions were not implemented. During any period of time that an owner or operator is required to implement the provisions of the plan, each failure to implement an obligation under the plan during any particular day is a violation.


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source.


(9) *Continuous compliance requirements.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standards and operating limits by using the performance test methods and procedures in § 63.805 for each affected source.


(i) *General requirements.* (A) You must monitor and collect data, and provide a site specific monitoring plan as required by §§ 63.804, 63.806 and 63.807.


(B) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating and periods of malfunction. Any period for which data collection is required and the operation of the CEMS is not otherwise exempt and for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.


(C) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.


(ii) [Reserved]


(h) The owner or operator of an existing or new affected source subject to § 63.802(a)(4) or (b)(4) shall comply with those provisions by using either of the methods presented in § 63.804(h)(1) and (2) if complying with § 63.802(a)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(i) or by using the method presented in § 63.804(h)(3) if complying with § 63.802(a)(4)(ii) or (b)(4)(ii).


(1) Calculate total formaldehyde emissions from all finishing materials and contact adhesives used at the facility using Equation 5 and maintain a value of F_total_ no more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.


(2) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the calculated value of F_total_ in Equation 6 is no more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.


(3) Demonstrate compliance by use of coatings and contact adhesives only if they are low-formaldehyde coatings and contact adhesives maintaining a certified product data sheet for each coating and contact adhesive used, as required by § 63.806(b)(1), and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c).


(i) The compliance certification shall state that low-formaldehyde coatings and contact adhesives, as applicable, have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period or should otherwise identify the periods of noncompliance and the reasons for noncompliance. An affected source is in violation of the standard whenever a coating or contact adhesive that is not low-formaldehyde, as demonstrated by records or by a sample of the coating or contact adhesive, is used. Use of a noncompliant coating or contact adhesive is a separate violation for each day the noncompliant coating or contact adhesive is used.


(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source.



---

[N] [60 FR 62936, Dec. 7, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 72073, Nov. 21, 2011]




