# § 489.60   Definitions.

As used in this subpart unless the context indicates otherwise—


*Assessment* means a sum certain that CMS may assess against an HHA in lieu of damages under Titles XI, XVIII, or XXI of the Social Security Act or under regulations in this chapter.


*Assets* includes but is not limited to any listing that identifies Medicare beneficiaries to whom home health services were furnished by a participating or formerly participating HHA.


*Civil money penalty* means a sum certain that CMS has the authority to impose on an HHA as a penalty under Titles XI, XVIII, or XXI of the Social Security Act or under regulations in this chapter.


*Participating home health agency* means a “home health agency” (HHA), as that term is defined by section 1861(o) of the Social Security Act, that also meets the definition of a “provider” set forth at § 400.202 of this chapter.


*Rider* means a notice issued by a Surety that a change in the bond has occurred or will occur.


*Surety bond* means one or more bonds issued by one or more surety companies under 31 U.S.C. 9304 to 9308 and 31 CFR parts 223, 224, and 225, provided the bond otherwise meets the requirements of this section.


*Unpaid civil money penalty or assessment* means a civil money penalty or assessment imposed by CMS on an HHA under Titles XI, XVIII, or XXI of the Social Security Act, plus accrued interest, that, after the HHA or Surety has exhausted all administrative appeals, remains unpaid (because the civil money penalty or assessment has not been paid to, or offset or compromised by, CMS) and is not the subject of a written arrangement, acceptable to CMS, for payment by the HHA. In the event a written arrangement for payment, acceptable to CMS, is made, an *unpaid civil money penalty or assessment* also means such civil money penalty or assessment, plus accrued interest, that remains due 60 days after the HHA's default on such arrangement.


*Unpaid claim* means a Medicare overpayment for which the HHA is responsible, plus accrued interest, that, 90 days after the date of the agency's notice to the HHA of the overpayment, remains due (because the overpayment has not been paid to, or recouped or compromised by, CMS) and is not the subject of a written arrangement, acceptable to CMS, for payment by the HHA. In the event a written arrangement for payment, acceptable to CMS, is made, an *unpaid claim* also means a Medicare overpayment for which the HHA is responsible, plus accrued interest, that remains due 60 days after the HHA's default on such arrangement.



---

[N] [63 FR 313, Jan. 5, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 29655, June 1, 1998]




