# § 165.512   Safety Zone; Patapsco River, Northwest and Inner Harbors, Baltimore, MD.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section:


(1) *Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region* means the Commander, Coast Guard  Maryland-National Capital Region or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region to act on his or her behalf.


(2) *USS CONSTELLATION “turn-around” participants* means the USS CONSTELLATION, its support craft and the accompanying towing vessels.


(b) *Location.* The following area is a moving safety zone: All waters, from surface to bottom, within 200 yards ahead of or 100 yards outboard or aft of the historic sloop-of-war USS CONSTELLATION, while operating in the Inner Harbor, the Northwest Harbor and the Patapsco River.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) The general regulations governing safety zones, found in § 165.23, apply to the safety zone described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) With the exception of USS CONSTELLATION “turn-around” participants, entry into or remaining in this zone is prohibited, unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region.


(3) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage through the moving safety zone must first request authorization from the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region to seek permission to transit the area. The Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region can be contacted at telephone number (410) 576-2693. The Coast Guard vessels enforcing this section can be contacted on Marine Band Radio VHF Channel 16 (156.8 MHz). Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the person or vessel shall proceed as directed. If permission is granted, all persons or vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region, and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the zone.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the zone by Federal, State and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced from 2 p.m. through 7 p.m. on the Thursday before Memorial Day (observed), and, if necessary due to inclement weather, from 2 p.m. through 7 p.m. on the Thursday following Memorial Day (observed).



---

[N] [CGD05-07-010, 72 FR 34624, June 25, 2007, as amended by USCG-2012-1075, 78 FR 14189, Mar. 5, 2013; USCG-2016-0060, 81 FR 38594, June 14, 2016]




