# § 256.3   Definitions.

As used in this part—


(a) *Act* means the Department of Transportation Act, as amended.


(b) *Administrator* means the Federal Railroad Administrator, or his delegate.


(c) *Allowable project costs* means those project costs for which Federal financial assistance may be expended under § 256.7.


(d) *Applicant* means a governmental entity, a non-profit public-purpose organization, or any responsible person having the legal, financial, and technical capacity to implement an intermodal passenger terminal project under this part. The applicant must have legal authority to receive and expend Federal funds.


(e) *Chairman* means the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts.


(f) *Civic and cultural activities* includes, but is not limited to, museums, libraries, musical and dramatic presentations, art exhibitions, adult education programs, public meetings of community groups, convention visitors and others, and other public activities supported in whole or in part under Federal law.


(g) *Council* means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.


(h) *Demonstration funds* means funds authorized for the purpose set forth in paragraph (1)(A) of subsection 4(i) of the Act.


(i) *Intermodal passenger terminal* means an existing railroad passenger terminal which has been or may be modified as necessary to accommodate several modes of transportation, including intercity rail service and some or all of the following: Intercity bus, commuter rail, intra-city rail transit and bus transportation, airport limousine service and airline ticket offices, rent-a-car facilities, taxis, private parking, and other transportation services.


(j) *National Register* means the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior.


(k) *Planning funds* means funds authorized for the purpose set forth in paragraph (1)(D) of subsection 4(i) of the Act.


(l) *Preservation funds* means funds authorized for the purpose set forth in paragraph (1)(B) of subsection 4(i) of the Act.


(m) *Project* means a locally sponsored, coordinated, and administered program, or any part thereof, to plan, finance, construct, maintain, or improve an intermodal passenger terminal, which may incorporate civic or cultural activities where feasible in an architecturally or historically distinctive railroad passenger terminal.


(n) *4R Act* means the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976, as amended, Public Law 94-210, 90 Stat. 125, 49 U.S.C. 1653.


(o) *Sufficient commitments* means commitments of a binding nature adequate to ensure the successful operation of a project. Such commitments may be conditional, requiring, for example, the participation of other entities in the project, or action by a date certain.



---

[N] [40 FR 29080, July 10, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 21887, May 22, 1978; 44 FR 21647, Apr. 11, 1979]




