# § 173.302   Filling of cylinders with nonliquefied (permanent) compressed gases or adsorbed gases.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Except as provided in § 171.23(a)(3) of this subchapter, a cylinder filled with a non-liquefied compressed gas (except gas in solution) must be offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements of this section and § 173.301 of this subpart. In addition, a DOT specification cylinder must meet the requirements in §§ 173.301a, 173.302a, and 173.305 of the subpart, as applicable. UN pressure receptacles must meet the requirements in §§ 173.301b and 173.302b of this subpart, as applicable. Where more than one section applies to a cylinder, the most restrictive requirements must be followed.


(2) *Adsorbed gas.* Except as provided in § 171.23(a)(3) of this subchapter, a cylinder filled with an adsorbed gas must be offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, and §§ 173.301, and 173.302c of this subpart. UN cylinders must meet the requirements in §§ 173.301b and 173.302b of this subpart, as applicable. Where more than one section applies to a cylinder, the most restrictive requirements must be followed.


(b) *Aluminum cylinders in oxygen service.* Each aluminum cylinder filled with oxygen must meet all of the following conditions: 


(1) Metallic portions of a valve that may come into contact with the oxygen in the cylinder must be constructed of brass or stainless steel. 


(2) Except for UN cylinders, each cylinder opening must be configured with straight threads only.


(3) Each UN pressure receptacle must be cleaned in accordance with the requirements of ISO 11621 (IBR, see § 171.7 or this subchapter). Each DOT cylinder must be cleaned in accordance with the requirements of GSA Federal Specification RR-C-901D, paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter). Cleaning agents equivalent to those specified in Federal Specification RR-C-901D may be used provided they do not react with oxygen. One cylinder selected at random from a group of 200 or fewer and cleaned at the same time must be tested for oil contamination in accordance with Federal Specification RR-C-901D, paragraph 4.3.2, and meet the specified standard of cleanliness.


(4) The pressure in each cylinder may not exceed 3000 psig at 21 °C (70 °F). 


(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 173.24(b)(1) and paragraph (f) of this section, an authorized cylinder containing oxygen continuously fed to tanks containing live fish may be offered for transportation and transported.


(d) Shipment of Division 2.1 materials in aluminum cylinders is authorized for transportation only by motor vehicle, rail car, or cargo-only aircraft.


(e) *DOT 3AL cylinders manufactured of 6351-T6 aluminum alloy.* Suitable safeguards should be provided to protect personnel and facilities should failure occur while filling cylinders manufactured of aluminum alloy 6351-T6 used in self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (SCUBA), self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) or oxygen service. The cylinder filler should allow only those individuals essential to the filling process to be in the vicinity of the cylinder during the filling process.


(f) *Compressed oxygen and oxidizing gases by aircraft.* A cylinder containing oxygen, compressed; compressed gas, oxidizing, n.o.s.; or nitrogen trifluoride is authorized for transportation by aircraft only when it meets the following requirements:


(1) Only DOT specification 3A, 3AA, 3AL, 3E, 3HT, 39 cylinders, 4E (filled to less than 200 psig at 21 °C (70 °F), and UN pressure receptacles ISO 9809-1, ISO 9809-2, ISO 9809-3 and ISO 7866 cylinders are authorized.


(2) Cylinders must be equipped with a pressure relief device in accordance with § 173.301(f) and, for DOT 39 cylinders offered for transportation after October 1, 2008, for the other DOT specification cylinders with the first requalification due after October 1, 2008, or for the UN pressure receptacles prior to initial use:


(i) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for DOT 3A, 3AA, 3AL, and 3E cylinders, and UN pressure receptacles ISO 9809-1, ISO 9809-2, ISO 9809-3 and ISO 7866 cylinders must be 100% of the cylinder minimum test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10%;


(ii) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for a DOT 3HT cylinder must be 90% of the cylinder minimum test pressure with a tolerance of plus zero to minus 10%; and


(iii) The rated burst pressure of a rupture disc for a DOT 39 cylinder must be not more than 80 percent of cylinder burst pressure but not less than 105 percent of cylinder test pressure. Cylinders filled and offered for transportation in accordance with the requirements of the section before January 27, 2021 may continue to be used for the life of the packaging.


(3) The cylinder must be placed in a rigid outer packaging that—


(i) Conforms to the requirements of either part 178, subparts L and M of this subchapter at the Packing Group I or II performance level or the performance criteria in Air Transport Association (ATA) Specification No. 300 for a Category I Shipping Container;


(ii) Is capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Flame Penetration Resistance Test in appendix E to part 178 of this subchapter; and


(iii) Prior to each shipment, passes a visual inspection that verifies that all features of the packaging are in good condition, including all latches, hinges, seams, and other features, and that the packaging is free from perforations, cracks, dents, or other abrasions that may negatively affect the flame penetration resistance and thermal resistance characteristics of the packaging.


(4) The cylinder and the outer packaging must be capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Thermal Resistance Test specified in appendix D to part 178 of this subchapter.


(5) The cylinder and the outer packaging must both be marked and labeled in accordance with part 172, subparts D and E of this subchapter. The additional marking “DOT31FP,” is allowed to indicate that the cylinder and the outer packaging are capable of passing, as demonstrated by design testing, the Thermal Resistance Test specified in appendix D to part 178 of this subchapter.


(6) A cylinder of compressed oxygen that has been furnished by an aircraft operator to a passenger in accordance with 14 CFR § 121.574, § 125.219, or § 135.91 is excepted from the outer packaging requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [67 FR 51646, Aug. 8, 2002, as amended at 67 FR 61289, Sept. 30, 2002; 68 FR 75745, Dec. 31, 2003; 71 FR 33883; June 12, 2006; 71 FR 51127, Aug. 29, 2006; 72 FR 55098, Sept. 28, 2007; 76 FR 56317, Sept. 13, 2011; 80 FR 1161, Jan. 8, 2015; 80 FR 72927, Nov. 23, 2015; 81 FR 3676, Jan. 21, 2016; 85 FR 75714, Nov. 25, 2020; 85 FR 85416, Dec. 28, 2020]




