# ยง 1006.310   Rent and lease-purchase limitations.

(a) *Rents.* The DHHL must develop and follow written policies governing rents for rental housing units assisted with NHHBG funds, including methods by which rents are determined.


(1) *Maximum and minimum rent.* The maximum monthly tenant rent payment for a low-income family may not exceed 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income. DHHL may also decide to compute rental or homebuyer payments on any lesser percentage of the adjusted income of the family. The Act does not set minimum rent or homebuyer payments; however, DHHL may do so.


(2) *Flat or income-adjusted rent.* Flat rent means the tenant's rent payment is set at a specific dollar amount or specific percent of market rent. Income-adjusted rent means the tenant's rent payment varies based on the tenant's income (*i.e.,* 30 percent of monthly adjusted income). DHHL may charge flat or income-adjusted rents, provided the rental or homebuyer payment of the low-income family does not exceed 30 percent of the family's adjusted income.


(3) *Utilities.* Utilities may be considered a part of rent or homebuyer payments if DHHL decides to define rent or homebuyer payments to include utilities in its written policies on rents and homebuyer payments required by section 811(a)(1) of NAHASDA. DHHL may define rents and homebuyer payments to exclude utilities.


(b) *Lease-purchase.* If DHHL assists low-income families to become homeowners of rental housing through a long-term lease (*i.e.,* 10 or more years) with an option to purchase the housing, DHHL must develop and follow written policies governing lease-purchase payments (*i.e.,* homebuyer payments) for rental housing units assisted with NHHBG funds, including methods by which payments are determined. The maximum monthly payment for a low-income family may not exceed 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income.


(c) *Exception for certain homeownership payments.* Homeownership payments for families who are not low-income, as permitted under ยง 1006.301(b), are not subject to the requirement that homebuyer payments may not exceed 30 percent of the monthly adjusted income of that family.


(d) *Applicability.* Low-income families who receive homeownership assistance other than lease-purchase assistance are not subject to the limitations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.





---

[N] [89 FR 9762, Feb. 12, 2024]










