# § 29.404   Initial benefit determinations and reconsideration by the Benefits Administrator.

(a) *Initial benefit determinations.* The Benefits Administrator will process applications for Federal Benefit Payments and determine the eligibility for and the amount and form of Federal Benefit Payments. All initial benefit determination decisions which may reasonably be construed as a denial (in whole or part) of a claim for Federal Benefit Payments must be in writing, must advise claimants of their right to request reconsideration under paragraph (b), of this section and must state the time limits applicable to such a request. 


(b) *Claimant's right to reconsideration of benefit denials.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, claimants who disagree with the amount or form of a Federal Benefit Payment determination and wish to contest the determination must first request the Benefits Administrator to reconsider its determination. 


(2) A decision to collect a debt is not a denial of a benefit claim under this section. 


(c) *Form and timing of requests for reconsideration.* (1) A request for reconsideration must be in writing, must include the claimant's name, address, date of birth and claim number, if applicable, and must state the basis for the request. 


(2) A request for reconsideration must be received by the Benefits Administrator within 30 calendar days from the date of the written notice of the initial benefit determination. 


(d) *Reconsideration decisions.* A reconsideration decision by the Benefits Administrator denying (in whole or part) a claim for a Federal Benefit Payment must—


(1) Be in writing; 


(2) Provide adequate notice of such denial, setting forth the specific reason for the denial in a manner calculated to be understood by the average participant; and 


(3) Provide notice of the right to appeal the Benefit Administrator's decision to the Department, the address to which such an appeal must be submitted, and the time limits applicable to such an appeal.


(e) *Appeal of reconsideration decisions.* The Department will review an appeal of a reconsideration decision under § 29.405. 




