# ยง 42.2   Designation of Director of Equal Employment Opportunity and Complaint Adjudication Officer.

(a) In compliance with the regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (29 CFR 1613.204(c)), the Assistant Attorney General for Administration is hereby designated as Director of Equal Employment Opportunity for the Department of Justice with responsibilities for administration of the Equal Employment Opportunity Program within the Department. The Director of Equal Employment Opportunity shall publish and implement the Department of Justice regulations, which shall include a positive action program to eliminate causes of discrimination and shall include procedures for processing complaints of discrimination within the Department. 


(b) The Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Rights Division shall appoint a Complaint Adjudication Officer, who shall render final decisions for the Department of Justice on complaints of discrimination filed by employees and applicants for employment in the Department pursuant to the Department's Equal Employment Opportunity Regulations. In rendering decisions, the Complaint Adjudication Officer shall order such remedial action as may be appropriate, whether or not there is a finding of discrimination, but in cases where no discrimination is found any remedial action ordered shall have the prior approval of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Civil Rights Division, who shall consult with the Deputy Attorney General on the matter.



---

[N] [Order No. 420-69, 34 FR 12281, July 25, 1969, as amended by Order No. 721-77, 42 FR 25725, May 19, 1977; Order No. 731-77, 42 FR 35646, July 11, 1977; Order No. 899-80, 45 FR 43703, June 30, 1980; Order No. 960-81, 46 FR 52357, Oct. 27, 1981] 




