# ยง 120.221   Fees and expenses that the Lender may collect from a loan applicant or Borrower.

Unless otherwise allowed by SBA Loan Program Requirements, the Lender may charge and collect from the applicant or Borrower only the following fees and expenses:


(a) *Service and packaging fees.* The Lender may charge an applicant reasonable fees (customary for similar Lenders in the geographic area where the loan is being made) for packaging and other services. The Lender must advise the applicant in writing that the applicant is not required to obtain or pay for unwanted services. The applicant is responsible for deciding whether fees are reasonable. SBA may review these fees at any time. Lender must refund any such fee considered unreasonable by SBA.


(b) *Extraordinary servicing.* Subject to prior written SBA approval, if all or part of a loan will have extraordinary servicing needs, the Lender may charge the applicant a service fee not to exceed 2 percent per year on the outstanding balance of the part requiring special servicing. 


(c) *Out-of-pocket expenses.* The Lender may collect from the applicant necessary out-of-pocket expenses such as filing or recording fees. 


(d) *Late payment fee.* The Lender may charge the Borrower a late payment fee not to exceed 5 percent of the regular loan payment. 


(e) *Legal services.* Lender may charge the Borrower for legal services rendered on an hourly basis.



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020]




