# § 21.9750   Course measurement.

VA will calculate an individual's rate of pursuit of an approved program of education during the individual's period of enrollment in accordance with this section. For the purpose of this chapter, VA will consider any rate of pursuit higher than 50 percent to be more than one-half time training.


(a) *Measurement of courses reported in credit hours.* If the courses are measured in credit hours, then the number of credit hours the individual is taking in a term, quarter, or semester will be divided by the minimum number of credit hours considered to be full-time pursuit in a term, quarter, or semester at the institution of higher learning as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The resulting percentage will be the individual's rate of pursuit.


(b) *Measurement of courses reported in clock hours.* If the courses are measured in clock hours, VA will—


(1) Convert the clock hours to equivalent credit hours by—


(i) Adding the total number of clock hours pursued during the term, quarter or semester;


(ii) Dividing the sum of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section by the total number of weeks in the term; and


(iii) Multiplying the result of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section rounded to the nearest hundredth by—


(A) If the institution of higher learning measures courses using both credit and clock hours, the decimal determined by dividing the number of credit hours considered full-time at the institution by the number of clock hours considered full-time at the institution.


(B) If the institution of higher learning only measures courses using clock hours, the decimal determined by dividing 14 credit hours by the number of clock hours considered full-time at the institution.


(2) Divide the result of paragraph (b)(1) rounded to the nearest hundredth by the minimum number of credit hours considered to be full-time pursuit in a term, quarter, or semester as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The resulting percentage will be the individual's rate of pursuit.


(c) Fourteen credit hours are full-time unless the institution of higher learning certifies that all undergraduate students enrolled for 13 credit hours, or for 12 credit hours, are charged full-time tuition or are considered full-time for other administrative purposes.


(d) *High school courses.* If an individual using transferred entitlement is eligible for pursuit of a secondary school diploma or equivalency certificate, VA will determine the rate of pursuit in accordance with this paragraph. For individuals pursuing high school courses measured in—


(1) Credit hours, VA will use the formula in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Clock hours, VA will use the formula in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) Units, VA will convert the units to credit hours as follows—


(i) Divide the total number of units required for the program of education by 4 (the number of ordinary school years generally required for completion);


(ii) Round the result of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section to the nearest whole number.


(iii) Multiply the result of paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section by:


(A) 1.0 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 100 percent. This number is equivalent to 14 credit hours;


(B) .75 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 75 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 10.5 credit hours for any number of units equal to or greater than the number determined in this paragraph but less than the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(A) of this section;


(C) .50 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 50 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 7 credit hours for any number of units equal to or greater than the number determined in this paragraph but less than the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B) of this section;


(D) .25 to determine the number of units required for a rate of pursuit equal to 25 percent. An individual will be considered to be enrolled in 3.5 credit hours for any number of units up to the number determined in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(C) of this section.


