# § 1187.2   What terms do I need to know?

As used in the part:


*Awardee* means an eligible applicant receiving a grant under the IBIP.


*Business incubator* means an organization that:


(1) Provides physical workspace and facilities resources to startups and established businesses; and


(2) Is designed to accelerate the growth and success of businesses through a variety of business support resources and services, including—


(i) Business education, counseling, and advice regarding access to capital;


(ii) Networking opportunities;


(iii) Mentorship opportunities; and


(iv) Other services intended to aid in developing a business.


*Eligible applicant* means an applicant eligible to apply for a grant under § 1187.3.


*IBIP* means the Indian Business Incubator Program (IBIP) under the Native American Business Incubator Program Act.


*Indian Tribe* has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).


*Institution of higher education* means an educational institution in any State that—


(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate, or persons who meet the requirements of 20 U.S.C. 1091(d);


(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education;


(3) Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree, or awards a degree that is acceptable for admission to a graduate or professional degree program, subject to review and approval by the Secretary;


(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and


(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted pre-accreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary for the granting of pre-accreditation status, and the Secretary has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time.


*Native American* or *Native* means a person who is a member of an Indian Tribe, as defined in section 4(d) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304(d)).


*Native business* means a business concern that is at least 51-percent owned and controlled by 1 or more Native Americans.


*Native entrepreneur* means an entrepreneur who is a Native American.


*OIED* means the Office of Indian Economic Development in the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.


*Reservation* means Indian reservations, public domain Indian allotments, former Indian reservations in Oklahoma, and land held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, and village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.


*Tribal college or university* means an institution that—


(1) Qualifies for funding under the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*) or the Navajo Community College Act (25 U.S.C. 640a note); or


(2) Is cited in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note).






