# § 25.121   Climb: One-engine-inoperative.

(a) *Takeoff; landing gear extended.* In the critical takeoff configuration existing along the flight path (between the points at which the airplane reaches *V*_LOF_ and at which the landing gear is fully retracted) and in the configuration used in § 25.111 but without ground effect, the steady gradient of climb must be positive for two-engine airplanes, and not less than 0.3 percent for three-engine airplanes or 0.5 percent for four-engine airplanes, at *V*_LOF_ and with—


(1) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at the power or thrust available when retraction of the landing gear is begun in accordance with § 25.111 unless there is a more critical power operating condition existing later along the flight path but before the point at which the landing gear is fully retracted; and 


(2) The weight equal to the weight existing when retraction of the landing gear is begun, determined under § 25.111. 


(b) *Takeoff; landing gear retracted.* In the takeoff configuration existing at the point of the flight path at which the landing gear is fully retracted, and in the configuration used in § 25.111 but without ground effect:


(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 2.4 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.7 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 3.0 percent for four-engine airplanes, at V_2_ with:


(i) The critical engine inoperative, the remaining engines at the takeoff power or thrust available at the time the landing gear is fully retracted, determined under § 25.111, unless there is a more critical power operating condition existing later along the flight path but before the point where the airplane reaches a height of 400 feet above the takeoff surface; and


(ii) The weight equal to the weight existing when the airplane's landing gear is fully retracted, determined under § 25.111.


(2) The requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be met:


(i) In non-icing conditions; and


(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if in the configuration used to show compliance with § 25.121(b) with this takeoff ice accretion:


(A) The stall speed at maximum takeoff weight exceeds that in non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V_SR_; or


(B) The degradation of the gradient of climb determined in accordance with § 25.121(b) is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net takeoff flight path gradient reduction defined in § 25.115(b).


(c) *Final takeoff.* In the en route configuration at the end of the takeoff path determined in accordance with § 25.111:


(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 1.2 percent for two-engine airplanes, 1.5 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 1.7 percent for four-engine airplanes, at V_FTO_ with—


(i) The critical engine inoperative and the remaining engines at the available maximum continuous power or thrust; and


(ii) The weight equal to the weight existing at the end of the takeoff path, determined under § 25.111.


(2) The requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be met:


(i) In non-icing conditions; and


(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the final takeoff ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g), if in the configuration used to show compliance with § 25.121(b) with the takeoff ice accretion used to show compliance with § 25.111(c)(5)(i):


(A) The stall speed at maximum takeoff weight exceeds that in non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent of V_SR_; or


(B) The degradation of the gradient of climb determined in accordance with § 25.121(b) is greater than one-half of the applicable actual-to-net takeoff flight path gradient reduction defined in § 25.115(b).


(d) *Approach.* In a configuration corresponding to the normal all-engines-operating procedure in which V_SR_ for this configuration does not exceed 110 percent of the V_SR_ for the related all-engines-operating landing configuration:


(1) The steady gradient of climb may not be less than 2.1 percent for two-engine airplanes, 2.4 percent for three-engine airplanes, and 2.7 percent for four-engine airplanes, with—


(i) The critical engine inoperative, the remaining engines at the go-around power or thrust setting;


(ii) The maximum landing weight;


(iii) A climb speed established in connection with normal landing procedures, but not exceeding 1.4 V_SR_; and


(iv) Landing gear retracted.


(2) The requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be met:


(i) In non-icing conditions; and


(ii) In icing conditions with the most critical of the approach ice accretion(s) defined in Appendices C and O of this part, as applicable, in accordance with § 25.21(g). The climb speed selected for non-icing conditions may be used if the climb speed for icing conditions, computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, does not exceed that for non-icing conditions by more than the greater of 3 knots CAS or 3 percent.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5066, 29 FR 18291, Dec. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 25-84, 60 FR 30749, June 9, 1995; Amdt. 25-108, 67 FR 70826, Nov. 26, 2002; Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44666; Aug. 8, 2007; Amdt. 25-140, 79 FR 65525, Nov. 4, 2014]




