# § 142.6   Invoice requirements.

(a) *Contents.* The commercial invoice, or the documentation acceptable in place of a commercial invoice in those instances listed in § 141.83(d) of this chapter, shall be furnished with the entry and before release of the merchandise is authorized. The commercial invoice or other acceptable documentation shall contain:


(1) An adequate description of the merchandise. 


(2) The quantities of the merchandise. 


(3) The values or approximate values of the merchandise. 


(4) The appropriate eight-digit subheading from the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. If the importer is uncertain of the appropriate subheading number, Customs shall assist him at his request. The port director may waive this requirement if he is satisfied that the information is not available at the time release of the merchandise is authorized. 


(5) The name and complete address of the foreign individual or firm who is responsible for invoicing the merchandise, ordinarily the manufacturer/seller, but where the manufacturer is not the seller, the party who sold the merchandise for export to the U.S., or made the merchandise available for sale.


(b) *Information not required when filing entry.* In addition to the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the commercial invoice or substitute document filed with the entry documentation also may include any other invoice information required by §§ 141.86 through 141.89 of this chapter. However, if this information does not appear on the invoice or substitute document filed with the entry documentation, it shall be included in the invoice or substitute document delivered at the time the entry summary documentation is filed. 



---

[N] [T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46821, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 80-26, 45 FR 3901, Jan. 21, 1980, as amended by T.D. 90-25, 55 FR 12343, Apr. 3, 1990; T.D. 90-78, 55 FR 40167, Oct. 2, 1990]




