# § 222.7   Cooperation in management.

(a) *Cooperation with local livestock associations*—(1) *Authority.* The Chief, Forest Service, is authorized to recognize, cooperate with, and assist local livestock associations in the management of the livestock and range resources on a single range allotment, associated groups of allotments, or other association-controlled lands on which the members' livestock are permitted to graze.


(2) *Purposes.* These associations will provide the means for the members to:


(i) Manage their permitted livestock and the range resources.


(ii) Meet jointly with Forest officers to discuss and formulate programs for management of their livestock and the range resources.


(iii) Express their wishes through their designated officers or committees.


(iv) Share costs for handling of livestock, construction and maintenance of range improvements or other accepted programs deemed needed for proper management of the permitted livestock and range resources.


(v) Formulate association special rules needed to ensure proper resource management.


(3) *Requirements for recognition.* The requirements for receiving recognition by the Forest Supervisor are:


(i) The members of the association must constitute a majority of the grazing permittees on the range allotment or allotments involved.


(ii) The officers of the association must be elected by a majority of the association members or of a quorum as specified by the association's constitution and bylaws.


(iii) The officers other than the Secretary and Treasurer must be grazing permittees on the range allotment or allotments involved.


(iv) The association's activities must be governed by a constitution and bylaws acceptable to the Forest Supervisor and approved by him.


(4) *Withdrawing recognition.* The Forest Supervisor may withdraw his recognition of the association whenever:


(i) The majority of the grazing permittees request that the association be dissolved.


(ii) The association becomes inactive, and does not meet in annual or special meetings during a consecutive 2-year period.


(b) *Cooperation with national, State, and county livestock organizations.* The policies and programs of national, State, and county livestock organizations give direction to, and reflect in, the practices of their members. Good working relationships with these groups is conducive to the betterment of range management on both public and private lands. The Chief, Forest Service, will endeavor to establish and maintain close working relationships with National livestock organizations who have an interest in the administration of National Forest System lands, and direct Forest officers to work cooperatively with State and county livestock organizations having similar interests.


(c) *Interagency cooperation.* The Chief, Forest Service, will cooperate with other Federal agencies which have interest in improving range management on public and private lands.


(d) *Cooperation with others.* The Chief, Forest Service, will cooperate with other agencies, institutions, organizations, and individuals who have interest in improvement of range management on public and private lands.




