# ยง 451.02   Applications for exemptions.

(a) *Scope.* This section prescribes the application procedures for applying for an exemption from the requirements of section 7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act, as amended.


(b) *Where to apply.* Applications should be made to the appropriate Secretary(ies) by writing:


(1) The Secretary, Attention: Endangered Species Committee, Department of the Interior, 18th and C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240.


(2) The Secretary, Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20030.


(c) *Who may apply.* (1) A Federal agency, (2) the Governor of the State in which an agency action will occur, if any, or (3) a permit or license applicant may apply to the Secretary for an exemption for an agency action if, after consultation under section 7(a)(2) of the Act, the Secretary's opinion indicates that the agency action would violate section 7(a)(2) of the Act.


(d) *When to apply.* (1) Except in the case of agency action involving a permit or license application, an application for an exemption must be submitted to the Secretary within 90 days following the termination of the consultation process.


(2) In the case of agency action involving a permit or license application, an application for an exemption may be submitted after the Federal agency concerned formally denies the permit or license. An applicant denied a permit or license may not simultaneously seek administrative review within the permitting or licensing agency and apply for an exemption. If administrative review is sought, an application for an exemption may be submitted if that review results in a formal denial of the permit or license. For an exemption application to be considered, it must be submitted within 90 days after the date of a formal denial of a permit or license.


(e) *Contents of the application when submitted.* Exemption applicants must provide the following information at the time the application is submitted.


(1) Name, mailing address, and phone number, including the name and telephone number of an individual to be contacted regarding the application.


(2) If the applicant is a Federal agency:


(i) A comprehensive description of the proposed agency action and if a license or permit denial is involved, a comprehensive description of the license or permit applicant's proposed action.


(ii) In the case of a denial of a license or permit, a description of the permit or license sought, including a statement of who in the Federal agency denied the permit or license, the grounds for the denial, and a copy of the permit or license denial.


(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained, before the proposed action can proceed.


(iv) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act.


(v) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.


(vi) A copy of the biological opinion.


(vii) A description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the Federal agency, by the licensing or permitting agency, and by the permit or license applicant, to the extent known.


(viii) A statement describing why the proposed agency action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.


(ix) A description of resources committed by the Federal agency, or the permit or license applicant, if any, to the proposed action subsequent to the initiation of consultation.


(3) If the applicant is a permit or license applicant other than a Federal agency:


(i) A comprehensive description of the applicant's proposed action.


(ii) A description of the permit or license sought from the Federal agency, including a statement of who in that agency denied the permit or license and the grounds for the denial.


(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained, before it can proceed with the proposed action.


(iv) A copy of the permit or license denial.


(v) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.


(vi) A copy of the biological opinion.


(vii) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act, to the extent that such information is available to the applicant.


(viii) A description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the applicant, and to the extent that such information is available to the applicant, a description of each alternative to the proposed action considered by the Federal agency.


(ix) A statement describing why the applicant's proposed action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.


(x) A description of resources committed to the proposed action by the permit or license applicant subsequent to the initiation of consultation.


(4) If the applicant is the Governor of a State in which the proposed agency action may occur:


(i) A comprehensive description of the proposed agency action and if a license or permit denial is involved, a comprehensive description of the license or permit applicant's proposed action.


(ii) A description of the permit or license, if any, sought from the Federal agency, including a statement of who in that agency denied the permit or license and the grounds for the denial, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.


(iii) A description of all permit(s), license(s) or other legal requirements which have been satisfied or obtained, or which must still be satisfied or obtained before the agency can proceed with the proposed action, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.


(iv) A copy of the biological assessment, if one was prepared.


(v) A copy of the biological opinion.


(vi) A description of the consultation process carried out pursuant to section 7(a) of the Act, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.


(vii) A description of all alternatives considered by the Federal agency, by the licensing or permitting agency, and by the permit or license applicant, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.


(viii) A statement describing why the proposed agency action cannot be altered or modified to avoid violating section 7(a)(2) of the Act.


(ix) A description of resources committed to the proposed action subsequent to the initiation of consultation, to the extent that such information is available to the Governor.


(5) Each applicant, whether a Federal agency, a permit or license applicant, or a Governor, must also submit the following:


(i) A complete statement of the nature and the extent of the benefits of the proposed action.


(ii) A complete discussion of why the benefits of the proposed action clearly outweigh the benefits of each considered alternative course of action.


(iii) A complete discussion of why none of the considered alternatives are reasonable and prudent.


(iv) A complete statement explaining why the proposed action is in the public interest.


(v) A complete explanation of why the action is of regional or national significance.


(vi) A complete discussion of mitigation and enhancement measures proposed to be undertaken if an exemption is granted.


(6) When the exemption applicant is a license or permit applicant or a Governor, a copy of the application shall be provided by the exemption applicant at the time the application is filed, to the Federal agency which denied the license or permit.


(f) *Review of the application by the Secretary.* (1) Upon receiving the application, the Secretary shall review the contents thereof and consider whether the application complies with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section.


(2) The Secretary shall reject an application within 10 days of receiving it if he determines that it does not comply with paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section. If the Secretary rejects an application because it does not contain the information required by paragraph (e) of this section, the applicant may resubmit a revised application so long as the applicant does so during the 90 day period specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) If the Secretary finds that the application meets the requirements of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, he will consider the application in accordance with part 452.


(g) *Notification of the Secretary of State.* The Secretary will promptly transmit to the Secretary of State a copy of all applications submitted in accordance with ยง 451.02.


(h) *Public notification.* Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Secretary shall promptly publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ (1) announcing that an application has been filed, (2) stating the applicant's name, (3) briefly describing the proposed agency action and the result of the consultation process, (4) summarizing the information contained in the application, (5) designating the place where copies of the application can be obtained and (6) specifying the name of the person to contact for further information. The Secretary will promptly notify each member of the Committee upon receipt of an application for exemption.


(i) The information collection requirements contained in part 451 do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.,* because it is anticipated there will be fewer than ten respondents annually.




