# ยง 102-3.65   What are the public notification requirements for discretionary advisory committees?

A notice to the public in the _Federal Register_ is required when a discretionary advisory committee is established, renewed, reestablished, or a new discretionary committee is established as the result of a merger of existing committees. The notices should be written in plain language and should not assume that the public has background knowledge or familiarity with an agency or the advisory committee. The agency is also strongly encouraged to make the notice available electronically in the languages represented by the affected communities on the agency's advisory committee website, if one exists, as well as use additional notification methods (such as an agency's social media accounts) to reach advisory committee stakeholders (such as professional trade or membership groups, civic groups, community-based organizations, ethnic media, representatives of affected stakeholder groups, and colleges and universities). Electronic notices must meet the requirements of title VI and E.O. 13166, as well as obligations under relevant sections of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 794.


(a) *Procedure.* Upon receiving notice from the Secretariat that its review is complete in accordance with ยง 102-3.60(a), the agency must publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing that the advisory committee is being established (including due to a merger), renewed, or reestablished. When establishing a new advisory committee, the notice also must describe the nature and purpose of the advisory committee and affirm that the advisory committee is necessary and in the public interest.


(b) *Time required for notices.* Notices of advisory committee establishment (including due to a merger) and reestablishment must appear at least 15 calendar days before the charter is filed, except that the Secretariat may approve less than 15 calendar days when requested by the agency in exceptional circumstances (such as a national emergency or natural disaster). This requirement for advance notice does not apply to advisory committee renewals, notices of which may be published concurrently with the filing of the charter.






