# § 721.5580   Oxirane, 2,2′-[methylenebis[(2,6-dimethyl-4,1-phenylene)oxymethylene]]bis-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as oxirane, 2,2′-[methylenebis[(2,6-dimethyl-4,1-phenylene)oxymethylene]]bis- (PMN P-97-1011; CAS No. 93705-66-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer, importer, or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.35 milligram/meter
3 (mg/m
3).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (f) and (q).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 44579, Aug. 20, 1998]




