# § 842.615   Deposits required.

(a) The deposits required to elect reduced annuities under §§ 842.610, 842.611, and 842.612 are not annuity overpayments and their collection is not subject to waiver.


(b) *Actuarial reduction in annuity of retirees who make post-retirement elections to provide a current spouse annuity or a former spouse annuity.* (1) The annuity reduction required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section applies to all retirees who are required to pay deposits under § 842.611 or § 842.612 and have not paid any portion of the deposit prior to October 1, 1993, or from annuity accruing before that date.


(2) Retirees described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must have a permanent annuity reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(3) A reduction under paragraph (b)(2) of this section commences on the same date as the annuity reduction under § 842.611 or § 842.612.


(4) The annuity reduction under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is equal to the lesser of—


(i) The amount of the deposit under § 842.611 or § 842.612 divided by the present value factor for the retiree's age on the commencing date of the reduction under paragraph (b)(3) of this section (plus any previous reduction(s) in the retiree's annuity required under paragraph (b)(2) or (c)(2) of this section); or


(ii) Twenty-five percent of the rate of the retiree's self-only annuity on the commencing date of the reduction (under paragraph (b)(3) of this section).


(5)(i) The reduction under paragraph (b)(2) or paragraph (c)(2) of this section terminates on the date that the retiree dies.


(ii) If payment of a retiree's annuity is suspended or terminated and later reinstated, or if a new annuity becomes payable, OPM will increase the amount of the original reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) or paragraph (c)(4) of this section by any cost-of-living adjustments under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code, occurring between the commencing date of the original reduction and the commencing date of the reinstated or new annuity (but the adjusted reduction may not exceed 25 percent of the rate of the reinstated or new self-only annuity).


(c) *Post-retirement survivor election deposits that were partially paid before October 1, 1993.* (1) The annuity reduction required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section applies to all retirees who are required to pay deposits under § 842.611 or § 842.612 and have paid any portion (but not all) of the deposit prior to October 1, 1993, or from annuity accruing before that date.


(2) Retirees described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must have a permanent annuity reduction computed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) A reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section commences on October 1, 1993.


(4) The annuity reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is equal to the lesser of—


(i) The amount of the principal balance remaining to be paid on October 1, 1993, divided by the present value factor for the retiree's age on October 1, 1993; or


(ii) Twenty-five percent of the rate of the retiree's self-only annuity on October 1, 1993.


(5)(i) The reduction under paragraph (c)(2) of this section terminates on the date that the retiree dies.


(ii) If payment of a retiree's annuity is suspended or terminated and later reinstated, or if a new annuity becomes payable, OPM will increase the amount of the original reduction computed under paragraph (b)(4) or paragraph (c)(4) of this section by any cost-of-living adjustments under section 8462 of title 5, United States Code, occurring between the commencing date of the original reduction and the commencing date of the reinstated or new annuity (but the adjusted reduction may not exceed 25 percent of the rate of the reinstated or new self-only annuity).


(d) For retirees who die before October 1, 1993, any unpaid portion of the deposit required under § 842.611 or § 842.612 will be collected from the survivor annuity (for which the election required the deposit) before OPM pays any survivor annuity.



---

[N] [52 FR 2061, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 58 FR 52883, Oct. 13, 1993]




