# § 56.36   Form of grademark and information required.

(a) *Form of official identification symbol and grademark.* (1) The shield set forth in Figure 1 of this section shall be the official identification symbol for purposes of this part and when used, imitated, or simulated in any manner in connection with shell eggs, shall be deemed prima facia to constitute a representation that the product has been officially graded for the purposes of § 56.2.


(2) Except as otherwise authorized, the grademark permitted to be used to officially identify USDA consumer-graded shell eggs shall be of the form and design indicated in Figures 2 through 4 of this section. The shield shall be of sufficient size so that the printing and other information contained therein is legible and in approximately the same proportion as shown in these figures.


(3) The “Produced From” grademark in Figure 5 of this section may be used to identify products for which there are no official U.S. grade standards (e.g., pasteurized shell eggs), provided that these products are approved by the Agency and are prepared from U.S. Consumer Grade AA or A shell eggs.


(b) *Information required on grademark.* (1) Except as otherwise authorized by the Administrator, each grademark used shall include the letters “USDA” and the U.S. grade of the product it identifies, such as “A Grade,” as shown in Figure 2 of this section. Such information shall be printed with the shield and the wording within the shield in contrasting colors in a manner such that the design is legible and conspicuous on the material upon which it is printed.


(2) The size or weight class of the product, such as “Large,” may appear within the grademark as shown in Figure 3 of this section. If the size or weight class is omitted from the grademark, it must appear prominently on the main panel of the carton.


(3) Except as otherwise authorized, the bands of the shield in Figure 4 of this section shall be displayed in three colors, with the color of the top, middle, and bottom bands being blue, white, and red, respectively.


(4) The “Produced From” grademark in Figure 5 of this section may be any one of the designs shown in Figures 2 through 4 of this section. The text outside the shield shall be conspicuous, legible, and in approximately the same proportion and close proximity to the shield as shown in Figure 5 of this section.


(5) The plant number of the official plant preceded by the letter “P” must be shown on each carton or packaging material.



---

[N] [63 FR 13330, Mar. 19, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 25485, May 13, 2003]




