# § 510.515   Beneficiary incentives under the CJR model.

(a) *General.* Participant hospitals may choose to provide in-kind patient engagement incentives to beneficiaries in a CJR episode, subject to the following conditions:


(1) The incentive must be provided directly by the participant hospital or by an agent of the hospital under the hospital's direction and control to the beneficiary during a CJR episode of care.


(2) The item or service provided must be reasonably connected to medical care provided to a beneficiary during a CJR episode of care.


(3) The item or service must be a preventive care item or service or an item or service that advances a clinical goal, as listed in paragraph (c) of this section, for a beneficiary in a CJR episode by engaging the beneficiary in better managing his or her own health.


(4) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services outside the CJR episode of care.


(5) The item or service must not be tied to the receipt of items or services from a particular provider or supplier.


(6) The availability of the items or services must not be advertised or promoted except that a beneficiary may be made aware of the availability of the items or services at the time the beneficiary could reasonably benefit from them.


(7) The cost of the items or services must not be shifted to another federal health care program, as defined at section 1128B(f) of the Act.


(b) *Technology provided to a CJR beneficiary.* Beneficiary engagement incentives involving technology are subject to the following additional conditions:


(1) Items or services involving technology provided to a beneficiary may not exceed $1,000 in retail value for any one beneficiary in any one CJR episode.


(2) Items or services involving technology provided to a beneficiary must be the minimum necessary to advance a clinical goal, as listed in paragraph (c) of this section, for a beneficiary in a CJR episode.


(3) Items of technology exceeding $100 in retail value must—


(i) Remain the property of the CJR participant; and


(ii) Be retrieved from the beneficiary at the end of the CJR episode. The participant hospital must document all retrieval attempts, including the ultimate date of retrieval. Documented, diligent, good faith attempts to retrieve items of technology will be deemed to meet the retrieval requirement.


(c) *Clinical goals of the CJR model.* The following are the clinical goals of the CJR model, which may be advanced through beneficiary incentives:


(1) Beneficiary adherence to drug regimens.


(2) Beneficiary adherence to a care plan.


(3) Reduction of readmissions and complications resulting from LEJR procedures.


(4) Management of chronic diseases and conditions that may be affected by the LEJR procedure.


(d) *Documentation of beneficiary incentives.* (1) Participant hospitals must maintain documentation of items and services furnished as beneficiary incentives that exceed $25 in retail value.


(2) The documentation must be established contemporaneously with the provision of the items and services and must include at least the following:


(i) The date the incentive is provided.


(ii) The identity of the beneficiary to whom the item or service was provided.


(3) The documentation regarding items of technology exceeding $100 in retail value must also include contemporaneous documentation of any attempt to retrieve technology at the end of a CJR episode as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(4) The CJR participant hospital must retain and provide access to the required documentation in accordance with § 510.110.



---

[N] [80 FR 73540, Nov. 24, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 621, Jan. 3, 2017]




