# § 301.6221(b)-1   Election out for certain partnerships with 100 or fewer partners.

(a) *In general.* The provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code (subchapter C of chapter 63) do not apply for any partnership taxable year for which an eligible partnership under paragraph (b) of this section makes a valid election in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. For rules regarding deficiency procedures, see subchapter B of chapter 63 of the Internal Revenue Code and §§ 301.6211-1 through 301.6215-1.


(b) *Eligible partnership*—(1) *In general.* Only an eligible partnership may make an election under this section. A partnership is an eligible partnership for purposes of this section if—


(i) The partnership has 100 or fewer partners as determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and


(ii) Each statement the partnership is required to furnish under section 6031(b) for the partnership taxable year is furnished to a partner that was an eligible partner (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) for the partnership's entire taxable year.


(2) *100 or fewer partners*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a partnership has 100 or fewer partners if the partnership is required to furnish 100 or fewer statements under section 6031(b) for the taxable year.


(ii) *Special rule for S corporations.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), a partnership with a partner that is an S corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)(1)) must take into account each statement required to be furnished by the S corporation to its shareholders under section 6037(b) for the taxable year of the S corporation ending with or within the partnership's taxable year.


(iii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2). For purposes of these examples, each partnership is required to file a return under section 6031(a):


(3) *Eligible Partners*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the term *eligible partner* means a partner that is an individual, a C corporation (as defined by section 1361(a)(2)), an eligible foreign entity described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, an S corporation, or an estate of a deceased partner. An S corporation is an eligible partner regardless of whether one or more shareholders of the S corporation are not an eligible partner.


(ii) *Partners that are not eligible partners.* A partner is not an eligible partner under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section if the partner is—


(A) A partnership,


(B) A trust,


(C) A foreign entity that is not an eligible foreign entity described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section,


(D) A wholly owned entity disregarded as separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes,




(E) An estate of an individual other than a deceased partner, or


(F) Any person who holds an interest in the partnership on behalf of another person, or


(G) A qualified subchapter S subsidiary, as defined in section 1361(b)(3)(B).




(iii) *Eligible foreign entity.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), a foreign entity is an eligible partner if the foreign entity would be treated as a C corporation if it were a domestic entity. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a foreign entity would be treated as a C corporation if it were a domestic entity if the entity is classified as a per se corporation under § 301.7701-2(b)(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), or (8), is classified by default as an association taxable as a corporation under § 301.7701-3(b)(2)(i)(B), or is classified as an association taxable as a corporation in accordance with an election under § 301.7701-3(c).


(iv) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (b)(3). For purposes of these examples, each partnership is required to file a return under section 6031(a):


(c) *Election*—(1) *In general.* An election under this section must be made on the eligible partnership's timely filed return, including extensions, for the taxable year to which the election applies and include all information required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in forms, instructions, or other guidance. An election is not valid unless the partnership discloses to the IRS all of the information required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and, in the case of a partner that is an S corporation, the shareholders of such S corporation. An election once made may not be revoked without the consent of the IRS.


(2) *Disclosure of partner information to the IRS.* A partnership making an election under this section must disclose to the IRS information about each person that was a partner at any time during the taxable year of the partnership to which the election applies, including each partner's name and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number (TIN) (or alternative form of identification required by forms, instructions, or other guidance), each partner's Federal tax classification, an affirmative statement that the partner is an eligible partner under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, and any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions, or other guidance. If a partner is an S corporation, the partnership must also disclose to the IRS information about each shareholder of the S corporation that was a shareholder at any time during the taxable year of the S corporation ending with or within the partnership's taxable year, including each shareholder's name and correct TIN (or alternative form of identification as prescribed by forms, instructions, or other guidance), each shareholder's Federal tax classification, and any other information required by the IRS in forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(3) *Partner notification.* A partnership that makes an election under this section must notify each of its partners of the election within 30 days of making the election in the form and manner determined by the partnership.


(d) *Election made by a partnership that is a partner* —(1) *In general.* The fact that a partnership has made an election under this section does not affect whether the provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63 apply to any other partnership, including a partnership in which the partnership making the election is a partner. Accordingly, the provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63 that apply to partners in a partnership that has not made an election under this section apply, to the extent provided in the regulations under subchapter C of chapter 63, to partners (that are themselves partnerships that have made an election under this section) in their capacity as partners in the other partnership.


(2) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. For purposes of these examples, each partnership is required to file a return under section 6031(a):


(e) *Effect of an election*—(1) *In general.* An election made under this section is an action taken under subchapter C of chapter 63 by the partnership for purposes of section 6223. Accordingly, the partnership and all partners are bound by an election of the partnership under this section unless the IRS determines that the election is invalid. See § 301.6223-2 for the binding nature of actions taken by a partnership under subchapter C of chapter 63.


(2) *IRS determination that election is invalid.* If the IRS determines that an election under this section for a partnership taxable year is invalid, the IRS will notify the partnership in writing and the provisions of subchapter C of chapter 63 will apply to that partnership taxable year.


(f) *Applicability date.* These regulations are applicable to partnership taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(D), (F), and (G) of this section apply to taxable years ending on or after November 20, 2020.



---

[N] [T.D. 9829, 83 FR 31, Jan. 2, 2018, as amended by T.D. 9969, 87 FR 75490, Dec. 9, 2022]






