# ยง 451.21   Effluent limitations attainable by the application of the best practicable control technology currently available (BPT).

Except as provided in 40 CFR 125.30 through 125.32, any existing point source subject to this subpart must meet the following requirements, expressed as practices (or any modification to these requirements as determined by the permitting authority based on its exercise of its best professional judgment) representing the application of BPT:


(a) *Feed management.* Employ efficient feed management and feeding strategies that limit feed input to the minimum amount reasonably necessary to achieve production goals and sustain targeted rates of aquatic animal growth. These strategies must minimize the accumulation of uneaten food beneath the pens through the use of active feed monitoring and management practices. These practices may include one or more of the following: Use of real-time feed monitoring, including devices such as video cameras, digital scanning sonar, and upweller systems; monitoring of sediment quality beneath the pens; monitoring of benthic community quality beneath the pens; capture of waste feed and feces; or other good husbandry practices approved by the permitting authority.


(b) *Waste collection and disposal.* Collect, return to shore, and properly dispose of all feed bags, packaging materials, waste rope and netting.


(c) *Transport or harvest discharge.* Minimize any discharge associated with the transport or harvesting of aquatic animals including blood, viscera, aquatic animal carcasses, or transport water containing blood.


(d) *Carcass removal.* Remove and dispose of aquatic animal mortalities properly on a regular basis to prevent discharge to waters of the U.S.


(e) *Materials storage.* (1) Ensure proper storage of drugs, pesticides and feed in a manner designed to prevent spills that may result in the discharge of drugs, pesticides or feed to waters of the U.S.


(2) Implement procedures for properly containing, cleaning, and disposing of any spilled material.


(f) *Maintenance.* (1) Inspect the production system on a routine basis in order to identify and promptly repair any damage.


(2) Conduct regular maintenance of the production system in order to ensure that it is properly functioning.


(g) *Recordkeeping.* (1) In order to calculate representative feed conversion ratios, maintain records for aquatic animal net pens documenting the feed amounts and estimates of the numbers and weight of aquatic animals.


(2) Keep records of the net changes, inspections and repairs.


(h) *Training.* The permittee must:


(1) In order to ensure the proper clean-up and disposal of spilled material adequately train all relevant facility personnel in spill prevention and how to respond in the event of a spill.


(2) Train staff on the proper operation and cleaning of production systems including training in feeding procedures and proper use of equipment.




