# ยง 3560.408   Lease of security property.

(a) *General.* Borrowers must obtain Agency approval prior to entering into a lease agreement related to any property serving as security for Agency loans. Agency approvals of lease agreements are considered loan servicing actions under 7 CFR part 1970, and as such do not require additional NEPA analysis and documentation.


(b) *Leases to public housing authorities.* Borrowers may not lease all or part of their housing facilities to a housing authority. Lease agreements in place prior to the effective date of this regulation may be continued provided that leases are in a form acceptable to the housing authority and are on terms that will enable the borrower to comply with Agency program requirements, to meet Agency program objectives, and make loan and other required payments to the Agency on an Agency approved schedule.


(c) *Lease of a portion of the security property.* The Agency may, subject to the applicable provisions governing loan purposes found in of ยง 3560.53, ยง 3560.553 and ยง 3560.603, approve the leasing of facilities related to a housing project (e.g., central kitchens, recreation facilities, laundry rooms, and community rooms) when the borrower will continue to operate the facilities for the purposes for which the loan was made. Agency approval is not required for leases with a term of less than 30 days. The Agency will only approve a lease with a term over 30 days if the following conditions are met:


(1) The lease is in the best interest of the borrower, the tenants, and the Federal Government.


(2) The amount of the consideration agreed to in the lease is adequate to pay all prorated operating and maintenance expenses, a prorated share of the annual reserve deposit, and the prorated part of the loan amortization at the note rate of interest.


(3) All compensation and considerations, whether payments, a share of proceeds, or improvements to the property paid for by the lessee, must be disclosed to the Agency. No payments or compensation for entering into a lease shall flow to the borrower or any identity-of-interest related to the borrower.


(4) The lease provides at its termination for the restoration of the leased space to its original condition or a condition acceptable to the owner and the Federal Government.


(5) Consent to the lease will not exceed 3 years at a time unless the Agency determines that a longer lease is advantageous to the borrower, the tenants, and the Federal Government.


(6) When another lienholder's mortgage requires that lienholder's consent to a lease, the borrower must obtain written consent from the lienholder before the Agency will consider approving the lease.


(d) *Mineral leases.* Mineral leases will be handled according to 7 CFR 3550.159 except that all references to County Supervisor will be construed to mean District Director when applied to the MFH Programs.



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 11049, Mar. 2, 2016]




