# § 200.73   Applicable hold-harmless provisions.

(a) *General.* (1) Except as authorized under paragraph (c) of this section and § 200.100(d)(2), an SEA may not reduce the allocation of an eligible LEA below the hold-harmless amounts established under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(2) The hold-harmless protection limits the maximum reduction of an LEA's allocation compared to the LEA's allocation for the preceding year.


(3) Except as provided in § 200.100(d), an SEA must apply the hold-harmless requirement separately for basic grants, concentration grants, targeted grants, and education finance incentive grants as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(4) Under sections 1122(c) and 1125A(f)(3) of the ESEA, the hold-harmless percentage varies based on the LEA's proportion of formula children, as shown in the following table:


(b) *Targeted grants and education finance incentive grants.* The number of formula children used to determine the hold-harmless percentage is the number before applying the weights described in section 1125 and section 1125A of the ESEA.


(c) *Adjustment for insufficient funds.* If the amounts made available to the State are insufficient to pay the full amount that each LEA is eligible to receive under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the SEA must ratably reduce the allocations for all LEAs in the State to the amount available.


(d) *Eligibility for hold-harmless protection.* (1) An LEA must meet the eligibility requirements for a basic grant, targeted grant, or education finance incentive grant under § 200.71 in order for the applicable hold-harmless provision to apply.


(2) An LEA not meeting the eligibility requirements for a concentration grant under § 200.71 must be paid its hold-harmless amount for four consecutive years.


(e) *Hold-harmless protection for a newly opened or significantly expanded charter school LEA.* An SEA must calculate a hold-harmless base for the prior year for a newly opened or significantly expanded charter school LEA that, as applicable, reflects the new or significantly expanded enrollment of the charter school LEA.



---

[N] [82 FR 31711, July 7, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 31675, July 2, 2019]




