# § 760.402   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart. The definitions in parts 718 and 1400 of this title also apply, except where they conflict with the definitions in this section.


*Adult beef bull* means a male beef breed bovine animal that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes before it died.


*Adult beef cow* means a female beef breed bovine animal that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred beef heifer is also considered an adult beef cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Adult buffalo and beefalo bull* means a male animal of those breeds that was at least 2 years old and used for breeding purposes before it died.


*Adult buffalo and beefalo cow* means a female animal of those breeds that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred buffalo or beefalo heifer is also considered an adult buffalo or beefalo cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Adult dairy bull* means a male dairy breed bovine animal at least 2 years old used primarily for breeding dairy cows before it died.


*Adult dairy cow* means a female bovine dairy breed animal used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption that had delivered one or more offspring before dying. A first-time bred dairy heifer is also considered an adult dairy cow if it was pregnant at the time it died.


*Adverse weather* means damaging weather events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, floods, blizzards, disease, wildfires, extreme heat, and extreme cold.


*Agricultural operation* means a farming operation.


*Application* means the “Livestock Indemnity Program” form.


*Buck* means a male goat.


*Commercial use* means used in the operation of a business activity engaged in as a means of livelihood for profit by the eligible producer.


*Contract* means, with respect to contracts for the handling of livestock, a written agreement between a livestock owner and another individual or entity setting the specific terms, conditions, and obligations of the parties involved regarding the production of livestock or livestock products.


*Deputy Administrator* or DAFP means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Farm Service Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture or the designee.


*Equine animal* means a domesticated horse, mule, or donkey.


*Ewe* means a female sheep.


*Farming operation* means a business enterprise engaged in producing agricultural products.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency.


*Goat* means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Capra, including Angora goats. Goats are further defined by sex (bucks and nannies) and age (kids).


*Kid* means a goat less than 1 year old.


*Lamb* means a sheep less than 1 year old.


*Livestock owner* means one having legal ownership of the livestock for which benefits are being requested on the day such livestock died.


*Nanny* means a female goat.


*Non-adult beef cattle* means a beef breed bovine animal that does not meet the definition of adult beef cow or bull. Non-adult beef cattle are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died.


*Non-adult buffalo or beefalo* means an animal of those breeds that does not meet the definition of adult buffalo or beefalo cow or bull. Non-adult buffalo or beefalo are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time of death.


*Non-adult dairy cattle* means a dairy breed bovine animal, of a breed used for the purpose of providing milk for human consumption, that does not meet the definition of adult dairy cow or bull. Non-adult dairy cattle are further delineated by weight categories of either less than 400 pounds or 400 pounds or more at the time they died.


*Normal mortality* means the numerical amount, computed by a percentage, as established for the area by the FSA State Committee, of expected livestock deaths, by category, that normally occur during a calendar year for a producer.


*Poultry* means domesticated chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese. Poultry are further delineated by sex, age, and purpose of production as determined by FSA.


*Ram* means a male sheep.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture or a designee of the Secretary.


*Sheep* means a domesticated, ruminant mammal of the genus Ovis. Sheep are further defined by sex (rams and ewes) and age (lambs) for purposes of dividing into categories for loss calculations.


*State committee, State office, county committee, or county office* means the respective FSA committee or office.


*Swine* means a domesticated omnivorous pig, hog, or boar. Swine for purposes of dividing into categories for loss calculations are further delineated by sex and weight as determined by FSA.


*United States* means all fifty States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the District of Columbia.




