# § 720.22   Members or civilian employees subpoenaed as witnesses in Federal courts.

(a) *Witnesses on behalf of Federal Government.* When members or civilian employees of the Department of the Navy are required to appear as witnesses in a Federal Court to testify on behalf of the Federal Government in cases involving Department of the Navy activities, the Chief of Naval Personnel or the Commandant of the Marine Corps, as appropriate, will issue temporary additional duty orders to that person. The charges for such orders will be borne by the activity to which the required witness is attached. Payment to witnesses will be as provided by the Joint Federal Travel Regulations and U.S. Navy travel instructions. If the required witness is to appear in a case in which the activities of the Department of the Navy are not involved, the Department of the Navy will be reimbursed in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Navy Comptroller Manual, section 046268.


(b) *Witnesses on behalf of nongovernmental parties*—(1) *Criminal actions.* When members or civilian employees are served with a subpoena to appear as a witness for a defendant in a criminal action and the fees and mileage required by rule 17(d) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure are tendered, the commanding officer may issue the person subpoenaed permissive orders authorizing attendance at the trial at no expense to the Government, unless the person's absence would have an adverse impact on naval operations. In such a case, a full report of the circumstances will be made to the Judge Advocate General or, in the case of civilian employees, to the Associate General Counsel (Litigation). In those cases where fees and mileage are not tendered as required by rule 17(d) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, but the person subpoenaed still desires to attend, the commanding officer also may issue permissive orders at no cost to the Government. Such persons, however, should be advised that an agreement as to reimbursement for any expenses incident to travel, lodging, and subsistence should be effected with the party desiring their attendance and that no reimnbursement should be expected from the Government.


(2) *Civil actions.* When members or civilian employees are served with a subpoena to appear as a witness on the behalf of a nongovernmental party in a civil action brought in a Federal court, the provisions of § 720.20 apply.




