# § 1020.10   Television receivers.

(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of this section are applicable to television receivers with cathode ray tubes manufactured subsequent to January 15, 1970.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *External surface* means the cabinet or enclosure provided by the manufacturer as part of the receiver. If a cabinet or enclosure is not provided as part of the receiver, the external surface shall be considered to be a hypothetical cabinet, the plane surfaces of which are located at those minimum distances from the chassis sufficient to enclose all components of the receiver except that portion of the neck and socket of the cathode-ray tube which normally extends beyond the plane surfaces of the enclosure. 


(2) *Maximum test voltage* means 130 root mean square volts if the receiver is designed to operate from nominal 110 to 120 root mean square volt power sources. If the receiver is designed to operate from a power source having some voltage other than from nominal 110 to 120 root mean square volts, maximum test voltage means 110 percent of the nominal root mean square voltage specified by the manufacturer for the power source. 


(3) *Service controls* means all of those controls on a television receiver provided by the manufacturer for purposes of adjustment which, under normal usage, are not accessible to the user. 


(4) *Television receiver* means an electronic product designed to receive and display a television picture through broadcast, cable, or closed circuit television. 


(5) *Usable picture* means a picture in synchronization and transmitting viewable intelligence. 


(6) *User controls* means all of those controls on a television receiver, provided by the manufacturer for purposes of adjustment, which on a fully assembled receiver under normal usage, are accessible to the user. 


(c) *Requirements*—(1) *Exposure rate limit.* Radiation exposure rates produced by a television receiver shall not exceed 0.5 milliroentgens per hour at a distance of five (5) centimeters from any point on the external surface of the receiver, as measured in accordance with this section. 


(2) *Measurements.* Compliance with the exposure rate limit defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be determined by measurements made with an instrument, the radiation sensitive volume of which shall have a cross section parallel to the external surface of the receiver with an area of ten (10) square centimeters and no dimension larger than five (5) centimeters. Measurements made with instruments having other areas must be corrected for spatial nonuniformity of the radiation field to obtain the exposure rate average over a ten (10) square centimeter area. 


(3) *Test conditions.* All measurements shall be made with the receiver displaying a usable picture and with the power source operated at supply voltages up to the maximum test voltage of the receiver and, as applicable, under the following specific conditions: 


(i) On television receivers manufactured subsequent to January 15, 1970, measurements shall be made with all user controls adjusted so as to produce maximum x-radiation emissions from the receiver. 


(ii) On television receivers manufactured subsequent to June 1, 1970, measurements shall be made with all user controls and all service controls adjusted to combinations which result in the production of maximum x-radiation emissions. 


(iii) On television receivers manufactured subsequent to June 1, 1971, measurements shall be made under the conditions described in paragraph (c)(3) (ii) of this section, together with conditions identical to those which result from that component or circuit failure which maximizes x-radiation emissions. 


(4) *Critical component warning.* The manufacturer shall permanently affix or inscribe a warning label, clearly legible under conditions of service, on all television receivers which could produce radiation exposure rates in excess of the requirements of this section as a result of failure or improper adjustment or improper replacement of a circuit or shield component. The warning label shall include the specification of operating high voltage and an instruction for adjusting the high voltage to the specified value. 



---

[N] [38 FR 28632, Oct. 15, 1973, as amended at 88 FR 3654, Jan. 20, 2023]




