# § 354.3   User fees for certain international services.

(a) *Definitions.* Whenever in this section the following terms are used, unless the context otherwise requires, they shall be construed, respectively, to mean:


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).


*Arrival.* Arrival at a port of entry, as listed in 19 CFR 101.3 or as defined by 19 CFR 101.1, in the customs territory of the United States or at any place serviced by any such port of entry.


*Calendar year.* The period from January 1 to December 31, inclusive, of any particular year.


*Cascadia.* British Columbia and those ports of entry into the United States lying south of 59°26′59.316″ N, north of 43°23′34.152″ N, west of 122°20′31.2″ W, and east of 135°20′2.4″ W.”


*Certificate.* Any certificate issued by or on behalf of APHIS describing the condition of a shipment of plants or plant products for export, including but not limited to Phytosanitary Certificate (PPQ Form 577), Export Certificate for Processed Plant Products (PPQ Form 578), and Phytosanitary Certificate for Reexport (PPQ Form 579).


*Commercial aircraft.* Any aircraft used to transport persons or property for compensation or hire.


*Commercial purpose.* The intention of receiving compensation or making a gain or profit.


*Commercial railroad car.* Any carrying vehicle, measured from coupler to coupler and designed to operate on railroad tracks, other than a locomotive or a caboose.


*Commercial shipment.* A shipment for gain or profit.


*Commercial truck.* Any self-propelled vehicle, including an empty vehicle or a truck cab without a trailer, which is designed and used for the transportation of commercial merchandise or for the transportation of non-commercial merchandise on a for-hire basis.


*Commercial vessel.* Any watercraft or other contrivance used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water to transport property for compensation or hire, with the exception of any aircraft or ferry.


*Customs and Border Protection (CBP).* U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Department of Homeland Security.


*Customs territory of the United States.* The 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.


*Designated State or county inspector.* A State or county plant regulatory official designated by the Secretary of Agriculture to inspect and certify to shippers and other interested parties as to the phytosanitary condition of plant products inspected under the Plant Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 7701 *et seq.*).


*Great Lakes.* The Great Lakes of North America and the waters of the St. Lawrence River west of a rhumb line drawn from Cap de Rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island, and west of a line along 63° W. longitude from Anticosti Island to the north shore of the St. Lawrence River.


*Passenger.* A natural person for whom transportation is provided, including infants, whether a separate ticket or travel document is issued for the infant, or the infant or toddler occupies a seat, or the infant or toddler is held or carried by another passenger.


*Person.* An individual, corporation, partnership, trust, association, or any other public or private entity, or any officer, employee, or agent thereof.


(b) *Fee for inspection of commercial vessels of 100 net tons or more.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the master, licensed deck officer, or purser of any commercial vessel which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, and which is either required to make entry at the customs house under 19 CFR 4.3 or is a U.S.-flag vessel proceeding coastwise under 19 CFR 4.85, shall, upon arrival, proceed to CBP and pay an agricultural quarantine and inspection (AQI) user fee. The base AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in table 1. The fee will be paid for each arrival regardless of the number of arrivals taking place in the course of a single voyage.


(2) The following categories of commercial vessels are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:


(i) Commercial cruise vessels carrying passengers paying fees under paragraph (f) of this section;


(ii) Any vessel which, at the time of arrival, is being used solely as a tugboat;


(iii) Vessels used exclusively in the governmental service of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, so long as the vessel is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;


(iv) Vessels arriving in distress or to take on fuel, sea stores, or ship's stores;


(v) Tugboats towing vessels on the Great Lakes; and


(vi) Vessels returning to the United States after traveling to Canada solely to take on fuel.


(3) If not otherwise exempt from paying the fee, a vessel traveling solely between the United States and Canada and within the Great Lakes or Cascadia may pay the AQI user fee for each arrival as the fee is shown in table 2, provided that the vessel:


(i) Is not carrying cargo originating from countries other than the United States or Canada.


(ii) Is not carrying plants or plant products.


(iii) Is not carrying animals or animal products.


(iv) Is not carrying soil or quarry products from areas in Canada listed in § 319.77-3 of this chapter as being infested with gypsy moth.


(v) Is not carrying wood packaging material as defined under § 319.40-1 of this chapter.


(c) *Fee for inspection of commercial trucks*—(1) *On-arrival payment.* Upon arrival at a CBP port of entry, the driver or other person in charge of a commercial truck that is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or under 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, must tender the AQI user fees to CBP, unless they have been prepaid as provided for in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. APHIS strongly encourages electronic remittance of fees. The fee applies to all commercial trucks, regardless of what they are carrying, as well as empty trucks and truck cabs (see table 3).


(2) *Prepayment.* (i) The owner, their agent, or person in charge of a commercial vehicle may at any time prepay the commercial truck AQI fee as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for all arrivals of that vehicle during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar year. The prepayment transponder fee is set at 50 times the unrounded per arrival fee for the period between October 1, 2024 and September 30, 2025, and 60 times the unrounded per arrival fee thereafter. Prepayment of the AQI fee must be made in accordance with the procedures and payment methods set forth in 19 CFR 24.22. The following information must be provided, together with the prepayment amount for each arrival:


(A) Vehicle make, model, and model year;


(B) Vehicle Identification Number (VIN);


(C) License numbers issued by State, Province, or country; and


(D) Owner's name and address.


(ii) Purchases of transponders may be made at any time during a calendar year; APHIS will not prorate for the portion of the calendar year already elapsed, nor refund single-crossing fees already paid.


(d) *Fee for inspection of commercial railroad cars*—(1) *General requirement.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each commercial railroad car (loaded or empty) which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or under 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, upon each arrival, as indicated in table 4. The railroad company receiving a railroad car in interchange at a port of entry or, barring interchange, the company moving a car in line haul service into the customs territory of the United States, will be responsible for payment of the fee. Payment of the fee must be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (d)(3) or (4) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the term “railroad car” means any carrying vehicle, measured from coupler to coupler and designed to operate on railroad tracks. If the AQI user fee is prepaid for all arrivals of a commercial railroad car during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar year, the AQI user fee is an amount 48 times the AQI user fee for each arrival.


(2) *Exemptions.* The following categories of commercial railroad cars are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:


(i) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in Canada, if:


(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs Canada; and


(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within the United States.


(ii) Any commercial railroad car that is part of a train whose journey originates and terminates in the United States, if:


(A) The commercial railroad car is part of the train when the train departs the United States; and


(B) No passengers board or disembark from the commercial railroad car, and no cargo is loaded or unloaded from the commercial railroad car, while the train is within any country other than the United States; and


(iii) Locomotives and cabooses.


(3) *Prepayment.* The owner, agent, or person in charge of a railroad company may at any time prepay the commercial railroad car AQI fee as defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for all arrivals of that railroad car during a calendar year or any remaining portion of a calendar. This payment must be remitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.


(4) *Remittance procedures.* The Association of American Railroads (AAR), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), and railroad companies acting individually shall file monthly written statement with USDA, APHIS, FMD, within 90 days after the end of each calendar month. Each written statement shall indicate:


(i) The number of commercial railroad cars entering the customs territory of the United States during the relevant period by railroad company;


(ii) The total monthly AQI user fees due from each railroad company; and


(iii) In the case of prepayments to cover all annual arrivals of certain railroad car(s) in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section; include the number of railroad cars being prepaid for, railroad car number(s) covered by the prepayment and the calendar year to which the prepayment applies.


(iv) Railroad companies may include the written statement with their mailed payment as directed in this paragraph (d)(4). For all other payment types, the companies must email the written statement to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.* Individual railroad companies must submit a written statement for periods with no fees collected. Detailed remittance instructions are located at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.* Questions and correspondence may be directed to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov* or (612) 336-3400 (fax) or (877) 777-2128 (phone).


(5) *Payment procedures.* (i) If the railroad company intends to pay monthly, the owner, agent or person in charge of an individual railroad company shall pay the AQI user fees calculated by the Association of American Railroads (AAR), the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), or the individual railroad company itself within 90 days after the end of each calendar month in which commercial railroad cars entered the customs territory of the United States.


(ii) If the owner, agent or person in charge of an individual railroad company intends to prepay for railroad car(s) for the entire calendar year, as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, prepayment may be made at any time during a calendar year; APHIS will not prorate for the portion of the calendar year already elapsed, nor refund or credit per arrival fees already paid.


(iii) Written statements as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, are required to accompany all payments. Detailed payment instructions are located at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.* Questions and correspondence may be sent to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov,* fax (612) 336-3400 or phone (877) 777-2128.


(6) *Compliance.* (i) AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of AQI user fees collected and remitted and otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this paragraph (d). The AAR, AMTRAK, and each railroad company responsible for making AQI user fee payments must advise the USDA, APHIS, FMD of the name, address, and telephone number of an agent or other responsible person who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, collections, and written statements, payments, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted.


(ii) The agent or other responsible person for a payment remains the agent or responsible person until the railroad company notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The agent or responsible person must contact APHIS to initiate any transfer by contacting *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.* The new agent or responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.


(e)(1) *Fee for inspection of commercial aircraft.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, an AQI user fee will be charged for each commercial aircraft which is arriving, or which has arrived and is proceeding from one United States airport to another under a CBP “Permit to Proceed,” as specified in 19 CFR 122.81 through 122.85, or an “Agricultural Clearance or Safeguard Order” (PPQ Form 250), used pursuant to § 330.400 of this chapter and 9 CFR 94.5, and which is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D. Each carrier or their agent is responsible for paying the AQI user fee. The AQI user fee for each arrival is shown in table 5:


(2) *Exemptions.* The following categories of commercial aircraft are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) Any aircraft used exclusively in the governmental services of the United States or a foreign government, including any Agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, as long as the aircraft is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes;


(iii) Any aircraft making an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft was a foreign port;


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) Any aircraft moving from the U.S. Virgin Islands to Puerto Rico; and


(vi) Any aircraft making an in-transit stop at a port of entry, during which the aircraft does not proceed through any portion of the Federal clearance process, such as inspection or clearance by APHIS or CBP, no cargo is removed from or placed on the aircraft, no passengers get on or off the aircraft, no crew members get on or off the aircraft, no food is placed on the aircraft, and no garbage is removed from the aircraft.


(3) *Remittance and payment procedures.* (i) The carrier or their agent must pay the appropriate fees for receipt no later than 90 days after the close of the month in which the aircraft arrivals occurred. APHIS strongly encourages electronic payment of fees. To set up electronic payment refer to our detailed instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-paymen*t-types.pdf or for further information relative to electronic remittance, or for further information relative to electronic remittance, contact *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.* In the event electronic remission is impractical, a check or money order can be mailed to the Agency lock box following detailed payment instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-payment-types.pdf.* Questions and correspondence may be directed to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov* or to (612) 336-3400 (fax) or (877) 777-2128 (phone). For payment information, refer to our detailed payment instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.* Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and a charge to cover the cost of processing and handling a delinquent claim as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).


(ii) The carrier or their agent must provide a written statement each month stating the fees that are due for the month. Carriers or their agents must include a hard copy of the written statement with any mailed payment. For all other payment types, including for months with no fees collected, the carriers must email the written statement to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.*

(iii) The written statement must include the following information:


(A) Name and address of the person making the payment;


(B) Calendar month covered by the payment;


(C) Amount being paid, or a written statement stating that no fees were collected.


(iv) All fee payments required under this section must be made in U.S. dollars. For all payment types accepted, please visit *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.*

(4) *Compliance.* Each carrier subject to this section must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of the AQI user fees paid and to otherwise determine compliance in accordance with this paragraph (e) and 21 U.S.C. 136a. Each carrier must advise USDA, APHIS, FMD, FOB of the name, address, and telephone number of an agent or responsible person who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, payments, and written statements as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted. The agent or responsible person for a payment remains the agent or responsible person until the carrier notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The carrier or their agent or responsible person must contact APHIS at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts* to initiate any transfer. The new agent or responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.


(5) *Limitations on charges.* (i) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of aircraft if the aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section.


(ii) Airlines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for inspection of cargo from an aircraft if:


(A) The aircraft is subject to the AQI user fee for arriving aircraft as prescribed by this section; and


(B) The cargo is inspected between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday; or


(C) The cargo is inspected concurrently with the aircraft.


(f)(1) *Fee for inspection of international passengers.* Except as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, each passenger aboard a commercial aircraft or cruise ship who is subject to inspection under part 330 of this chapter or 9 CFR chapter I, subchapter D, upon arrival from a place outside of the customs territory of the United States, must pay an AQI user fee. The fee covers one individual arriving into a port of entry within the customs territory of the United States from a foreign port. Each air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document for transportation into the customs territory of the United States is responsible for collecting from the passenger the applicable fee specified in this section, including the fee applicable to any infants or toddlers traveling without a separate ticket or travel document, whether in assigned seats or held in an adult passenger's lap. In the event that the air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document does not collect the AQI user fee when tickets are sold, the air carrier or cruise line must collect the user fee that is applicable at the time of departure from the passenger upon departure. The AQI user fee will apply to tickets purchased beginning October 1, 2024. The fees are shown in tables 6 and 7:


(2) *Exemptions.* The following categories of passengers are exempt from paying an AQI user fee:


(i) Crew members onboard for purposes related to the operation of the vessel;


(ii) Crew members who are on duty on a commercial aircraft;


(iii) Airline employees, including “deadheading” crew members, who are traveling on official airline business;


(iv) Diplomats, except for U.S. diplomats, who can show that their names appear on the accreditation listing maintained by the U.S. Department of State. In lieu of the accreditation listing, an individual diplomat may present appropriate proof of diplomatic status to include possession of a diplomatic passport or visa, or diplomatic identification card issued by a foreign government;


(v) Passengers departing and returning to the United States without having touched a foreign port or place;


(vi) Passengers arriving on any commercial aircraft used exclusively in the governmental service of the United States or a foreign government, including any agency or political subdivision of the United States or a foreign government, so long as the aircraft is not carrying persons or merchandise for commercial purposes. Passengers on commercial aircraft under contract to the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) are exempted if they have been precleared abroad under the joint DOD/APHIS Military Inspection Program;


(vii) Passengers arriving on an aircraft due to an emergency or forced landing when the original destination of the aircraft was a foreign port;


(viii) Passengers transiting the United States and not subject to inspection; and


(ix) Passengers moving from the U.S. Virgin Islands to Puerto Rico.


(3) *Circumstances of user fee collections.* AQI user fees shall be collected under the following circumstances:


(i) When through tickets or travel documents are issued indicating travel to the customs territory of the United States that originates in any foreign country; and


(ii) When passengers arrive in the customs territory of the United States in transit from a foreign country and are inspected by APHIS or CBP.


(4) *Responsibility for collection of fees.* (i) Any air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document on or after May 13, 1991, is responsible for collecting the AQI user fee from all passengers transported into the customs territory of the United States to whom the AQI user fee applies.


(A) Tickets or travel documents must be marked by the person who collects the AQI user fee to indicate that the required AQI user fee has been collected from the passenger.


(B) If the AQI user fee applies to a passenger departing from the United States and if the passenger's tickets or travel documents were issued on or after May 13, 1991, but do not reflect collection of the AQI user fee at the time of issuance, then the carrier transporting the passenger from the United States must collect the AQI user fee upon departure.


(C) AQI user fees collected from international passengers pursuant to this paragraph (f) shall be held in trust for the United States by the person collecting such fees, by any person holding such fees, or by the person who is ultimately responsible for remittance of such fees to APHIS. AQI user fees collected from international passengers shall be accounted for separately and shall be regarded as trust funds held by the person possessing such fees as agents, for the beneficial interest of the United States. All such user fees held by any person shall be property in which the person holds only a possessory interest and not an equitable interest. As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the AQI user fees for international passengers, the person holding such user fees shall be entitled to any interest or other investment return earned on the user fees between the time of collection and the time the user fees are due to be remitted to APHIS under this section. Nothing in this section shall affect APHIS' right to collect interest for late remittance.


(ii) [Reserved]


(5) *Remittance and payment procedures.* (i) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document or their own non-carrier related tickets or travel documents, must remit collections of AQI user fees from the passengers to APHIS.


(ii) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must remit the passengers' fees to APHIS no later than 90 days after the close of the calendar month in which the ticket issuer collected the AQI user fees from the passengers. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalties, and a charge to cover the cost of processing and handling a delinquent claim as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).


(iii) All fee payments required under this section must be made in U.S. dollars. For payment types accepted please visit *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/business-services/aqi-user-fees.* APHIS strongly encourages electronic remittance of fees. To set up electronic remittance refer to our detailed payment instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/mrpbs/userfees/aqi-payment-types.pdf* or for further information relative to electronic remittance, contact *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.* In the event electronic remission is impractical, a check or money order can be mailed to the Agency lock box following detailed payment instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/aqi-payment-types.pdf.* Questions and correspondence may be sent to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov* or fax (612) 336-3400 or (877) 777-2128. For payment information, refer to our detailed payment instructions at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/sites/default/files/aqi-payment-types.pdf.*

(iv) The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must provide a written statement each month stating the passenger fees that are due for the month or stating that no payments are due. The air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document must include the written statement with their mailed payment. For all other payment types, they must email the written statement separately to *ABSHelpline@usda.gov.* The written statement must include the following information:


(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;


(B) Calendar month covered by the payment; and


(C) Amount collected and remitted.


(v) Refunds by a remitter of AQI user fees collected in conjunction with unused tickets or travel documents shall be netted against the next subsequent remittance. The ticket or travel document-issuing entity must submit a revised written statement indicating the revised number of passengers and international passenger AQI user fees amount collected. The revised written statement must be completed and filed for each month during which the ticket or travel document-issuing entity certifies that there was a decrease in the number of passengers and international passenger AQI user fees collected.


(6) *Notification.* Carriers contracting with U.S.-based tour wholesalers are responsible for notifying the USDA, APHIS, FMD, FOB at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts* of all journeys contracted, the number of spaces contracted for, and the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the United States-based tour wholesaler, within 90 days after the close of the calendar month in which such a journey occurred; *except that,* carriers are not required to make notification if tickets, marked to show collection of the AQI user fee, are issued for the individual contracted spaces.


(7) *Compliance.* Each carrier, travel agent, U.S.-based tour wholesaler, or other entity subject to this section must allow APHIS, CBP, and authorized representatives to verify the accuracy of the AQI user fees collected and remitted and to otherwise determine compliance with 21 U.S.C. 136a and this paragraph (f). Each carrier, travel agent, U.S.-based tour wholesaler, or other entity must advise USDA, APHIS, FMD, at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/ppq-program-overview/ppq-cbp-aqi-user-fees-contacts* of the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is authorized to verify AQI user fee calculations, payments, and remittance, as well as any changes in the identifying information submitted. The responsible person for a payment remains the responsible person until the air or sea carrier, travel agent, tour wholesaler, or other party issuing a ticket or travel document notifies APHIS of a transfer of responsibility. The responsible person must contact APHIS to initiate any transfer. The new responsible person assumes all responsibilities for ensuring compliance for meeting the requirements of this part.


(8) *Limitation on charges.* Airlines and cruise lines will not be charged reimbursable overtime for passenger inspection services required for any aircraft or cruise ship on which a passenger arrived who has paid the international passenger AQI user fee for that flight or cruise.


(g) *Fees for export certification of plants and plant products.* (1) For each certificate issued by APHIS personnel, the recipient must pay the applicable AQI user fee at the time and place the certificate is issued.


(2) When the work necessary for the issuance of a certificate is performed by APHIS personnel on a Sunday or holiday, or at any other time outside the regular tour of duty of the APHIS personnel issuing the certificate, in addition to the applicable user fee, the recipient must pay the applicable overtime rate in accordance with § 354.1.


(3)(i) Each exporter who receives a certificate issued on behalf of APHIS by a designated State or county inspector must pay an administrative user fee, as shown in table 8. The administrative fee can be remitted by the exporter directly to APHIS through the Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System (PCIT), provided that the exporter has a PCIT account and submits the application for the export certificate through the PCIT. If the PCIT is not used, the State or county issuing the certificate is responsible for collecting the fee and remitting it monthly to the U.S. Bank, United States Department of Agriculture, APHIS, AQI, P.O. Box 979043, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.


(ii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a commercial shipment are shown in table 9.


(iii) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a low-value commercial shipment are shown in table 10. A commercial shipment is a low-value commercial shipment if the items being shipped are identical to those identified on the certificate; the shipment is accompanied by an invoice which states that the items being shipped are worth less than $1,250; and the shipper requests that the user fee charged be based on the low value of the shipment.


(iv) The AQI user fees for an export or reexport certificate for a noncommercial shipment are shown in table 11.


(v) The AQI user fees for replacing any certificate are shown in table 12.


(4) If a designated State inspector issues a certificate, the State where the certificate is issued may charge for inspection services provided in that State.


(5) Any State which wishes to charge a fee for services it provides to issue certificates must establish fees in accordance with one of the following guidelines:


(i) *Calculation of a “cost-per-certificate” fee.* The State must:


(A) Estimate the annual number of certificates to be issued;


(B) Determine the total cost of issuing certificates by adding together delivery,
1 support,
2 and administrative costs;
3 and


(C) Divide the cost of issuing certificates by the estimated number of certificates to be issued to obtain a “raw” fee. The State may round the “raw” fee up to the nearest quarter, if necessary for ease of calculation, collection, or billing; or


(ii) *Calculation of a “cost-per-hour” fee.* The State must:


(A) Estimate the annual number of hours taken to issue certificates by adding together delivery,
4 support,
5 and administrative 
6 hours;


(B) Determine the total cost of issuing certificates by adding together delivery,
1 support,
2 and administrative costs; and


(C) Divide the cost of issuing certificates by the estimated number of hours taken to issue certificates to obtain a “cost-per-hour” fee. The State may round the “cost-per-hour” fee up to the nearest quarter, if necessary for ease of calculation, collection, or billing.


(6) For payment of any of the AQI user fees required in this paragraph (g), we will accept personal checks for amounts less than $100, and checks drawn on commercial accounts, cashier's checks, certified checks, traveler's checks, and money orders for any amount. All payments must be for the exact amount due.


(h)(1) *Fee for conducting and monitoring treatments.* (1) Each importer of a consignment of articles that require treatment upon arrival from a place outside of the customs territory of the United States, either as a preassigned condition of entry or as a remedial measure ordered following the inspection of the consignment, must pay an AQI user fee.  The AQI user fee is charged on a per-treatment basis, *i.e.,* if two or more consignments are treated together, only a single fee will be charged, and if a single consignment is split or must be retreated, a fee will be charged for each separate treatment conducted. The AQI user fee for each treatment is shown in table 13:


(2) *Treatment provider.* (i) Private entities that provide AQI treatment services to importers are responsible for collecting the AQI treatment user fee from the importer for whom the service is provided. Treatment providers must collect the AQI treatment fee applicable at the time the treatment is applied.


(ii) When AQI treatment services are provided by APHIS, APHIS will collect the AQI treatment fee applicable at the time the treatment is applied from the person receiving the services. Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to “The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.”


(3) *Collection of fees.* (i) In cases where APHIS is not providing the AQI treatment and collecting the associated fee, AQI user fees collected from importers pursuant to this paragraph (h) shall be held in trust for the United States by the person collecting such fees, by any person holding such fees, or by the person who is ultimately responsible for remittance of such fees to APHIS. AQI user fees collected from importers shall be accounted for separately and shall be regarded as trust funds held by the person possessing such fees as agents, for the beneficial interest of the United States. All such user fees held by any person shall be property in which the person holds only a possessory interest and not an equitable interest. As compensation for collecting, handling, and remitting the AQI treatment user fees, the person holding such user fees shall be entitled to any interest or other investment return earned on the user fees between the time of collection and the time the user fees are due to be remitted to APHIS under this section. Nothing in this section shall affect APHIS' right to collect interest from the person holding such user fees for late remittance.


(ii) [Reserved]


(4) *Remittance and statement procedures.* (i) The treatment provider that collects the AQI treatment user fee must remit the fee to USDA, APHIS, AQI, PO Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000.


(ii) AQI treatment user fees must be remitted for receipt no later than 31 days after the close of the calendar quarter in which the AQI user fees were collected. Late payments will be subject to interest, penalty, and handling charges as provided in the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 3717).


(iii) The remitter must mail with the remittance a written statement to USDA, APHIS, AQI, PO Box 979044, St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. The statement must include the following information:


(A) Name and address of the person remitting payment;


(B) Taxpayer identification number of the person remitting payment;


(C) Calendar quarter covered by the payment; and


(D) Amount collected and remitted.


(iv) Remittances must be made by check or money order, payable in United States dollars, through a United States bank, to “The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.”


(i) *Consequences for nonpayment or late payment of user fees*—(1) *Unpaid debt.* In cases of delinquent debts, the government is required to charge and collect interest, penalties, and costs. See 31 U.S.C. 3717(a) (interest); 3717(e)(1) (costs); and 3717(e)(2) (penalties). If any person for whom the service is provided fails to pay when due any debt to APHIS, including any user fee due under chapter I or chapter III of this title, then:


(i) *Subsequent user fee payments.* Payment must be made for subsequent user fees before the service is provided if:


(A) For unbilled fees, the user fee is unpaid 60 days after the date the pertinent regulatory provision indicates payment is due;


(B) For billed fees, the user fee is unpaid 60 days after date of bill;


(C) The person for whom the service is provided or the person requesting the service has not paid the late payment penalty charges, interest charges, or charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill on any delinquent APHIS user fee; or


(D) Payment has been dishonored.


(ii) *Resolution of difference between estimate and actual.* APHIS will estimate the user fee to be paid; any difference between the estimate and the actual amount owed to APHIS will be resolved as soon as reasonably possible following the delivery of the service, with APHIS returning any excess to the payor or billing the payor for the additional amount due.


(iii) *Prepayment form.* The prepayment must be in guaranteed form of payment, such as money order or certified check. Prepayment in guaranteed form will continue until the debtor pays the delinquent debt.


(iv) *Denied service.* Service will be denied until the debt is paid if:


(A) For unbilled fees, the user fee is unpaid 90 days after date the pertinent regulatory provision indicates payment is due;


(B) For billed fees, the user fee is unpaid 90 days after date of bill;


(C) The person for whom the service is provided or the person requesting the service has not paid the late payment penalty charges, interest charges, or charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill on any delinquent APHIS user fee; or


(D) Payment has been dishonored.


(2) *Unpaid debt during service.* If APHIS is in the process of providing a service for which an APHIS user fee is due, and the user has not paid the fee within the time required, or if the payment offered by the user is inadequate or unacceptable, then APHIS will take the following action: If regulated articles in quarantine at a treatment facility cannot be released from quarantine, APHIS may seize and dispose of them, as determined by the Administrator, and may recover all expenses of handling the articles from persons liable for user fees under paragraph (h)(1) of this section. If regulated articles can be released from quarantine, the articles will be released, and any unpaid debt will be handled in accordance with procedures for unpaid debt in this section.


(3) *Late payments.* If for unbilled user fees, the user fees are unpaid 30 days after the date the pertinent regulatory provisions indicates payment is due, or if billed, are unpaid 30 days after the date of the bill, APHIS will impose late payment penalty charges, interest charges, and charges for the cost of processing and handling the delinquent bill in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717.


(4) *Dishonored payment.* User fees paid with dishonored forms of payment, such as a check returned for insufficient funds, will be subject to interest and penalty charges in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. Administrative charges will be assessed at $20.00 per dishonored payment to be paid in addition to the original amount owed. Payment must be in guaranteed form, such as a money order or certified check.


(5) *Debt collection management.* In accordance with applicable debt collection law, the following provisions apply:


(i) *Taxpayer identification number.* APHIS will collect a taxpayer identification number from all persons, other than Federal agencies, who are liable for a user fee.


(ii) *Offset.* APHIS takes appropriate action to collect debts through offset under applicable law, including by notifying the Department of the Treasury of debts that are over 120 days delinquent for the purposes of offset through the Treasury Offset Program. Through the Treasury Offset Program, the Department of the Treasury will offset eligible Federal and State payments to satisfy the debt to APHIS.


(iii) *Cross-servicing.* APHIS will transfer debts that are over 120 days delinquent to the Department of the Treasury's Cross-Servicing program. Through the Cross-Servicing program, the Department of the Treasury will collect debts on behalf of APHIS. Exceptions may be made for debts that meet certain requirements, for example, debts that are already at a collection agency or in payment plans.


(6) *Report delinquent debt.* APHIS will report all unpaid debts to credit reporting bureaus.


(*j*) *Recordkeeping and record retention.* (1) Entities responsible for paying AQI user fees and their agents are required to establish, keep, and make available to APHIS the following records:


(i) Records and reports required under this section, including written statements, if applicable; and


(ii) Legible copies of contracts (including amendments to contracts) between the responsible entity or their agents and agents that conduct activities subject to this part for the responsible entity, and copies of documents relating to agreements made without a written contract.


(2) Responsible entities or their agents must maintain sufficient documentation for APHIS, CBP, and representatives to verify the accuracy of the fee collections and, if applicable, written statements. Such information must be made available for inspection upon APHIS and CBP's demand. Such documentation shall be maintained in the United States for a period of 5 years from the date of remittance calculation, unless a longer retention period is determined to be needed by the Administrator. Each such affected entity shall provide to APHIS and CBP the name, address, and telephone number of a responsible officer who is able to verify any statements or records required to be filed or maintained under this section and shall promptly notify APHIS and CBP of any changes in the identifying information previously submitted.


(k) *Severability.* The sections of this part are separate and severable from one another. If any section or portion therein is stayed or determined to be invalid, or the applicability of any section to any person or entity is held invalid, it is the APHIS' intention that the validity of the remainder of those parts shall not be affected, with the remaining sections to continue in effect.



---

[N] [89 FR 38636, May 7, 2024]






