# ยง 505.2   Definitions.

(a) The term *Act* means the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended, 79 Stat 848, as amended, 20 U.S.C. 951 *et seq.*

(b) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor.


(c) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, or authorized representative, to whom is assigned the performance of functions of the Secretary pertaining to wages under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended.


(d) The term *Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, or authorized representative, to whom is assigned the performance of functions of the Secretary pertaining to safety and health under the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended.


(e) *Professional* in the phrase *professional performer and related or supporting professional personnel* shall include all those who work for compensation on a project or production which is assisted by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts or the National Endowment for the Humanities regardless of whether paid out of grant funds. It shall not include those whose status is *amateur* because their engagement for performance or supporting work contemplates no compensation. Compensation does not include reimbursement of expenses (*i.e.*, meals, costumes, make-up etc.). The words *related or supporting . . . personnel* in the same phrase shall include all those whose work is related to the particular project or production such as musicians, stage hands, scenery designers, technicians, electricians and moving picture machine operators, as distinguished from those who operate a place for receiving an audience without reference to the particular project or production being exhibited, such as ushers, janitors, and those who sell and collect tickets. The phrase does not include laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors on construction projects, whose compensation is regulated under section 5(j) and section 7(j) of the Act. The phrase *professional performers and related or supporting professional personnel* shall not include persons employed as regular faculty or staff of an educational institution primarily performing duties commonly associated with the teaching profession. It shall include persons employed by educational institutions primarily to engage in activities customarily performed by performing artists or by those who assist in the presentation of performances assisted by grants from the National Endowment for the Arts or the National Endowment for the Humanities.



---

[N] [48 FR 36741, Aug. 12, 1983, as amended at 82 FR 2227, Jan. 9, 2017]




