# ยง 2203.2   Submission of information concerning proposed exchange.

(a) Any person submitting a proposal for a fee exchange of Federal coal deposits shall submit information concerning the coal reserves presently held in each geographic area involved in the exchange along with a description of the reserves that would be added or eliminated by the proposed exchange. In addition, the person filing a proposed exchange under this section shall furnish any additional information requested by the authorized officer in connection with the consideration of the antitrust consequences of the proposed exchange. 


(b) The authorized officer shall transmit a copy of the information required by paragraph (a) of this section to the Attorney General upon its receipt.


(c) All non-proprietary information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section shall be made a part of the public record on each proposed exchange. With respect to proprietary information submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, only a description of the type of information submitted shall be included in the public record.


(d) Where the entity proposing a fee coal exchange has previously submitted information, a reference to the date of submission and to the serial number of the record in which it is filed, together with a statement of any and all changes in holdings since the date of the previous submission, shall be accepted. 



---

[N] [51 FR 12612, Apr. 14, 1986, as amended 58 FR 60926, Nov. 18, 1993]




