# ยง 3.341   Total disability ratings for compensation purposes.

(a) *General.* Subject to the limitation in paragraph (b) of this section, total-disability compensation ratings may be assigned under the provisions of ยง 3.340. However, if the total rating is based on a disability or combination of disabilities for which the Schedule for Rating Disabilities provides an evaluation of less than 100 percent, it must be determined that the service-connected disabilities are sufficient to produce unemployability without regard to advancing age.


(b) *Incarcerated veterans.* A total rating for compensation purposes based on individual unemployability which would first become effective while a veteran is incarcerated in a Federal, State or local penal institution for conviction of a felony, shall not be assigned during such period of incarceration. However, where a rating for individual unemployability exists prior to incarceration for a felony and routine review is required, the case will be reconsidered to determine if continued eligibility for such rating exists.


(c) *Program for vocational rehabilitation.* Each time a veteran is rated totally disabled on the basis of individual unemployability during the period beginning after January 31, 1985, the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Service will be notified so that an evaluation may be offered to determine whether the achievement of a vocational goal by the veteran is reasonably feasible.



---

[N] [46 FR 47541, Sept. 29, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 52774, Dec. 26, 1985; 55 FR 17271, Apr. 24, 1990l; 58 FR 32445, June 10, 1993; 68 FR 34542, June 10, 2003; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]




