# ยง 983.164   Reports.

(a) *ACP-2, Failed Lot Notification.* Each handler shall notify the Administrative Committee for Pistachios (committee) of all lots that fail to meet the order's maximum aflatoxin requirements by completing section A of this form. Handlers shall furnish this report to the committee no later than 10 days after completion of the aflatoxin test. Each USDA-approved aflatoxin testing laboratory shall complete section C of this report, and forward this report and the failing aflatoxin test results to the committee and to the handler within 10 days of the test failure.


(b) *ACP-3, Failed Lot Disposition and Rework Report.* Each handler who reworks a failing lot of pistachios shall complete this report and shall forward it to the committee no later than 10 days after the rework is completed. If rework is not selected as a remedy, the handler shall submit the form to the committee office within 10 days of disposition of the lot.


(c) *ACP-4, Federal Marketing Order Exempt Handler Notification.* Each handler who handles less than 5,000 pounds of assessed weight pistachios in a production year shall complete and furnish this report to the committee no later than November 15 of each production year.


(d) *ACP-5, Minimal Testing Form.* Each handler who handles less than 1,000,000 pounds of dried weight pistachios in a production year and who wishes to request permission to handle under the minimal quantities provisions (ยง 983.53) of the order shall furnish this report to the committee office no later than August 1 of each production year.


(e) *ACP-6, Inter-handler Transfer.* Each handler who transfers uninspected pistachios to another handler within the production area shall complete the ACP-6 and sign Part A. The transferring handler shall forward the original ACP-6 and one copy to the handler who receives the uninspected pistachios. The transferring handler shall furnish one copy of ACP-6 to the committee within 30 days of the transfer. The handler receiving the uninspected pistachios (receiving handler) shall sign Part B of the original ACP-6 and shall file it with the committee within 30 days of the transfer.


(f) *ACP-7 Monthly Report of Inventory/Shipments.* Each handler of pistachios shall file this report with the committee by the 10th day of each month for the previous month's inventory and shipment information.


(g) *ACP-8, Producer Delivery Report.* Each handler of pistachios shall file this report with the committee by the 15th day of December of each production year: *Provided,* That for the 2007-08 production year, handlers must file this report with the committee by April 17, 2008, to report his/her receipts of pistachios during the current production year, the names of the handlers' producing entities, business type, and the following information concerning each producing entity: Federal Tax Identification number; mailing and e-mail address; telephone and fax number; total bearing acres; county of production; and for the current production year, the total receipts of open inshell, closed shell, shelling stock of each producing entity; and total pounds of processed pistachios produced by each producing entity.


(h) *Exemptions.* Handlers who handle less than 5,000 pounds of assessed weight pistachios during any production year are exempt from filing all forms, with the exception of the ACP-4.


(i) *Records.* Each handler shall maintain all records of pistachios received, held, shipped, and disposed of for at least 3 years following each crop year to show compliance with the marketing order provisions.



---

[N] [70 FR 39907, July 12, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 51987, Sept. 1, 2006; 72 FR 69141, Dec. 7, 2007; 73 FR 18705, Apr. 7, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 74 FR 56530, Nov. 2, 2009]




