# ยง 52.474   Base Year Emissions Inventory.

(a) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the Washington Metropolitan Statistical Area, submitted by Director, District of Columbia Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, on January 13, 1994 and October 12, 1995. This submittal consist of the 1990 base year stationary, area and off-road mobile and on-road mobile emission inventories in the Washington Statistical Area for the pollutant, carbon monoxide (CO). 


(b) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventory for the District's portion of the Metropolitan Washington DC ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Director, DCRA, on January 13, 1994. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile, non-road and biogenic source emission inventories in the area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_).


(c) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia State Implementation Plan an amendment to the 1990 base year emission inventories for the District's portion of the Metropolitan Washington, D.C. ozone nonattainment area submitted by the Director, Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, on November 3, 1997. This submittal consists of amendments to the 1990 base year point, area, highway mobile, and non-road source emission inventories in the area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), and oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_).


(d) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Acting Director of the District of Columbia Department of the Environment on June 12, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_).


(e) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the District of Columbia portion of the Washington DC-MD-VA 1997 fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the District Department of the Environment on April 2, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(f) EPA approves as a revision to the District of Columbia State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for the District of Columbia portion of the Washington, DC-MD-VA 2008 8-hour ozone nonattainment area submitted by the District Department of the Environment on July 17, 2014. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NO_X_) and volatile organic compounds (VOC).



---

[N] [61 FR 2936, Jan. 30, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 19679, Apr. 23, 1997; 63 FR 36858, July 8, 1998; 76 FR 58118, Sept. 20, 2011; 77 FR 65631, Oct. 30, 2012; 80 FR 27258, May 13, 2015; 80 FR 43628, July 23, 2015]




