# § 21.1034   Review of decisions.

(a) *Decisions.* A claimant may request a review of a decision on eligibility or entitlement to educational assistance under title 38, United States Code. A claimant may request review of a decision on entitlement to educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 510, and 10 U.S.C. chapters 106a, 1606, and 1607. A claimant may not request review of a decision on eligibility under 10 U.S.C. 510, and 10 U.S.C. chapters 106a, 1606, and 1607 or for supplemental or increased educational assistance under 10 U.S.C. 16131(i) or 38 U.S.C. 3015(d), 3021, or 3316 to VA as the Department of Defense solely determines eligibility to supplemental and increased educational assistance under these sections.


(b) *Reviews available.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, within one year from the date on which the agency of original jurisdiction issues notice of a decision described in paragraph (a) of this section as subject to a request for review, a claimant may elect one of the following administrative review options:


(1) *Supplemental Claim Review.* See § 3.2501 of this chapter.


(2) *Higher-level Review.* See § 3.2601 of this chapter.


(3) *Board of Veterans' Appeals Review.* See 38 CFR part 20.


(c) *Part 3 provisions.* See § 3.2500(b)-(d) of this chapter for principles that generally apply to a veteran's election of review of a decision described in paragraph (a) of this section as subject to a request for review.


(d) *Contested claims.* See subpart E of part 20 of this title for the timeline pertaining to contested claims.


(e) *Applicability.* This section applies where notice of a decision described in paragraph (a) of this section was provided to a veteran on or after the effective date of the modernized review system as provided in § 19.2(a) of this chapter, or where a veteran has elected review of a legacy claim under the modernized review system as provided in § 3.2400(c) of this chapter.



---

[N] [84 FR 194, Jan. 18, 2019]




