# ยง 20.1000   Rule 1000. Vacating a decision.

An appellate decision may be vacated by the Board of Veterans' Appeals at any time upon request of the appellant or his or her representative, or on the Board's own motion, on the following grounds: 


(a) *Denial of due process.* Examples of circumstances in which denial of due process of law will be conceded are: 


(1) When the appellant was denied his or her right to representation through action or inaction by Department of Veterans Affairs or Board of Veterans' Appeals personnel, 


(2) When there was a prejudicial failure to afford the appellant a personal hearing. (Where there was a failure to honor a request for a hearing and a hearing is subsequently scheduled, but the appellant fails to appear, the decision will not be vacated.), and


(3) For a legacy appeal, as defined in ยง 19.2 of this chapter, when a Statement of the Case or required Supplemental Statement of the Case was not provided. 


(b) *Allowance of benefits based on false or fraudulent evidence.* Where it is determined on reconsideration that an allowance of benefits by the Board has been materially influenced by false or fraudulent evidence submitted by or on behalf of the appellant, the prior decision will be vacated only with respect to the issue or issues to which, within the judgment of the Board, the false or fraudulent evidence was material. 



---

[N] [57 FR 4109, Feb. 3, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 84 FR 177, 191, Jan. 18, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 4337, Feb. 15, 2019]




