# ยง 73.1216   Licensee-conducted contests.

(a) A licensee that broadcasts or advertises information about a contest it conducts shall fully and accurately disclose the material terms of the contest, and shall conduct the contest substantially as announced or advertised over the air or on the Internet. No contest description shall be false, misleading or deceptive with respect to any material term.


(1) A contest is a scheme in which a prize is offered or awarded, based upon chance, diligence, knowledge or skill, to members of the public;


(2) Material terms include those factors which define the operation of the contest and which affect participation therein. Although the material terms may vary widely depending upon the exact nature of the contest, they will generally include: How to enter or participate; eligibility restrictions; entry deadline dates; whether prizes can be won; when prizes can be won; the extent, nature and value of prizes; basis for valuation of prizes; time and means of selection of winners; and/or tie-breaking procedures.


(3) In general, the time and manner of disclosure of the material terms of a contest are within the licensee's discretion. However, the obligation to disclose the material terms arises at the time the audience is first told how to enter or participate and continues thereafter.


(b) The disclosure of material terms shall be made by the station conducting the contest by either:


(1) Periodic disclosures broadcast on the station; or


(2) Written disclosures on the station's Internet Web site, the licensee's Web site, or if neither the individual station nor the licensee has its own Web site, any Internet Web site that is publicly accessible.


(c) In the case of disclosure under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a reasonable number of periodic broadcast disclosures is sufficient. In the case of disclosure under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the station shall:


(1) Establish a conspicuous link or tab to material contest terms on the home page of the Internet Web site;


(2) Announce over the air periodically the availability of material contest terms on the Web site and identify the Web site address where the terms are posted with information sufficient for a consumer to find such terms easily; and


(3) Maintain material contest terms on the Web site for at least thirty days after the contest has concluded. Any changes to the material terms during the course of the contest must be fully disclosed on air within 24 hours of the change on the Web site and periodically thereafter or the fact that such changes have been made must be announced on air within 24 hours of the change, and periodically thereafter, and such announcements must direct participants to the written disclosures on the Web site. Material contest terms that are disclosed on an Internet Web site must be consistent in all substantive respects with those mentioned over the air.


(d) This section is not applicable to licensee-conducted contests not broadcast or advertised to the general public or to a substantial segment thereof, to contests in which the general public is not requested or permitted to participate, to the commercial advertisement of non-licensee-conducted contests, or to a contest conducted by a non-broadcast division of the licensee or by a non-broadcast company related to the licensee.



---

[N] [80 FR 64361, Oct. 23, 2015, as amended at 89 FR 7254, Feb. 1, 2024]




