# § 1726.24   Standard forms of contracts for borrowers.

(a) *General.* The standard loan agreement between RUS and the borrowers provides that, in accordance with applicable RUS regulations in this chapter, the borrower shall use standard forms of contracts promulgated by RUS for construction, procurement, engineering services, and architectural services financed by a loan made or guaranteed by RUS. This part implements these provisions of the RUS loan agreement. Subparts A through H and J of this part prescribe when and how borrowers are required to use RUS standard forms of contracts in procurement and construction. Subpart I of this part prescribes the procedures that RUS follows in promulgating standard contract forms and identifies those contract forms that borrowers are required to use for procurement and construction.


(b) *Amendments to contracts*—(1) *Contract forms.* The borrower must use RUS Form 238, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment, for any change or addition in any contract for construction or equipment. 


(2) *Special considerations.* Each time an amendment to a construction contract is executed, the borrower must ensure that contractor's bond is adequate, that all necessary licenses and permits have been obtained, and that any environmental requirements associated with the proposed construction have been met.


(3) *Amendment approval requirements.* (i) If a RUS approved form of contract is required by this part, an amendment must not alter the terms and conditions of the RUS approved form of contract without prior RUS approval.


(ii) The borrower must make a contract amendment subject to RUS approval if the underlying contract was made subject to RUS approval and the total amended contract price exceeds 120 percent of the original contract price (excluding any escalation provision contained in the contract).


(iii) Contract amendments, except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, are not subject to RUS approval and need not be submitted to RUS unless specifically requested by RUS on a case by case basis.



---

[N] [60 FR 10155, Feb. 23, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 58286, Oct. 30, 1998; 69 FR 7109, Feb. 13, 2004]




