# ยง 203.81   General.

(a) *Requirements for Cooperation Agreements.* In order to maintain a firm understanding between the Corps and non-Federal interests concerning the responsibilities of each party in responding to or recovering from a natural disaster, division or district commanders shall negotiate a cooperation agreement (CA) with a non-Federal sponsor whenever assistance (other than short term technical assistance) is furnished. CA's do not require approval by HQUSACE unless they contain special or unusual conditions. For assistance to other than a public entity, a public agency is required to be the non-Federal sponsor, co-sign the agreement, and be responsible, from the Corps perspective, for accomplishment of all work and conditions required in the CA. Project sponsors must meet the definition contained in ยง 203.15. 


(b) *Request for assistance.* (1) For urgent situations involving Flood Response activities, division/district commanders may respond to oral requests from responsible representatives of local interests. However, all oral requests must be confirmed in writing. Assistance can be furnished before the written statement is received. 


(2) Before furnishing assistance (other than short term technical assistance) under Advance Measures, or under Emergency Water Supplies, the district/division commander must receive a request, signed by the Governor (or the Governor's representative for Emergency Water assistance due to a contaminated source), identifying the problem, verifying that all available State and local resources have been committed, and requesting Federal assistance. 




