# § 488.1235   Temporary management.

(a)* Application.* CMS may impose temporary management of a hospice program if it determines that a hospice program has a condition-level deficiency and CMS determines that management limitations or the deficiencies are likely to impair the hospice program's ability to correct the noncompliance and return the hospice program to compliance with all of the conditions of participation within the timeframe required.


(b)* Procedures*—(1) *Notice of intent.* Before imposing the remedy in paragraph (a) of this section, CMS notifies the hospice program in accordance with § 488.1210(e) that a temporary manager is being appointed.


(2) *Termination.* If the hospice program fails to relinquish authority and control to the temporary manager, CMS terminates the hospice program's provider agreement in accordance with § 488.1265.


(c)* Duration and effect of remedy.* Temporary management continues until one of the following occur:


(1) CMS determines that the hospice program has achieved substantial compliance and has the management capability to ensure continued compliance with all the conditions of participation.


(2) CMS terminates the provider agreement.


(3) The hospice program resumes management control without CMS approval. In this case, CMS initiates termination of the provider agreement and may impose additional remedies.


(4) Temporary management will not exceed a period of 6 months from the date of the survey identifying noncompliance.


(d)* Payment of salary.* (1) The temporary manager's salary must meet the following:


(i) Is paid directly by the hospice program while the temporary manager is assigned to that hospice program.


(ii) Must be at least equivalent to the sum of the following:


(A) The prevailing salary paid by providers for positions of this type in what the State considers to be the hospice program's geographic area (prevailing salary based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics, National Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates).


(B) Any additional costs that would have reasonably been incurred by the hospice program if such person had been in an employment relationship.


(C) Any other costs incurred by such a person in furnishing services under such an arrangement or as otherwise set by the State.


(2) A hospice program's failure to pay the salary and other costs of the temporary manager described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is considered a failure to relinquish authority and control to temporary management.




