# § 387.311   Bonds and certificates of insurance.

(a) *Public liability.* Each Form BMC 82 surety bond filed with the FMCSA must be for the full limits of liability required under § 387.303(b)(1). Form MCS-82 surety bonds and other forms of similar import prescribed by the Department of Transportation, may be aggregated to comply with the minimum security limits required under § 387.303(b)(1) or § 387.303(b)(2). Each Form BMC 91 certificate of insurance filed with the FMCSA will always represent the full security minimum limits required for the particular carrier, while it remains in force, under § 387.303(b)(1) or § 387.303(b)(2), whichever is applicable. Any previously executed Form BMC 91 filed before the current revision which is left on file with the FMCSA after the effective date of this regulation, and not canceled within 30 days of that date will be deemed to certify the same coverage limits as would the filing of a revised Form BMC 91. Each Form BMC 91X certificate of insurance filed with the FMCSA will represent the full security limits under § 387.303(b)(1) or § 387.303(b)(2) or the specific security limits of coverage as indicated on the face of the form. If the filing reflects aggregation, the certificate must show clearly whether the insurance is primary or, if excess coverage, the amount of underlying coverage as well as amount of the maximum limits of coverage. *
 Each Form BMC 91MX certificate of insurance filed with the FMCSA will represent the security limits of coverage as indicated on the face of the form. The Form BMC 91MX must show clearly whether the insurance is primary or, if excess coverage, the amount of underlying coverage as well as amount of the maximum limits of coverage.


(b) *Cargo liability.* Each form BMC 83 surety bond filed with the FMCSA must be for the full limits of liability required under § 387.303(c). Each Form BMC 34 certificate of insurance filed with the FMCSA will represent the full security limits under § 387.303(c) or the specific security limits of coverage as indicated on the face of the form. If the filing reflects aggregation, the certificate must show clearly whether the insurance is primary or, if excess coverage, the amount of underlying coverage as well as amount of the maximum limits of coverage.


(c) Each policy of insurance in connection with the certificate of insurance which is filed with the FMCSA, shall be amended by attachment of the appropriate endorsement prescribed by the FMCSA and the certificate of insurance filed must accurately reflect that endorsement.



---

[N] [47 FR 55944, Dec. 14, 1982, as amended at 48 FR 43332, Sept. 23, 1983; 48 FR 51781, Nov. 14, 1983; 50 FR 40030, Oct. 1, 1985; 62 FR 49941, Sept. 24, 1997; 68 FR 56199, Sept. 30, 2003]




