# § 742.17   Exports of firearms to OAS member countries.

(a) *License requirements.* BIS maintains a licensing system for the export of firearms and related items to all OAS member countries. This action is based on the Organization of American States (OAS) Model Regulations for the Control of the International Movement of Firearms, their Parts and Components and Munitions (OAS Model Regulations) which were developed to assist OAS member countries to implement the Inter-American Convention Against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives, and Other Related Materials (Firearms Convention). 
2 Items subject to these controls are identified by “FC Column 1” in the “License Requirements” section of their Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) on the Commerce Control List (CCL). If “FC Column 1” of the Commerce Country Chart (supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR) is indicated for a particular country, a license is required for export to that destination. Licenses will generally be issued on a Firearms Convention (FC) Import Certificate or equivalent official document, satisfactory to BIS, issued by the government of the importing OAS member country.


(b) *Licensing policy.* Applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis when supported by an FC Import Certificate or equivalent official document issued by the government of the importing country. However, there is a policy of denial for applications to export items linked to such activities as drug trafficking, terrorism, and transnational organized crime.




(c) *Contract sanctity.* Contract sanctity provisions are not available for license applications under this § 742.17.


(d) *OAS Model Regulations.* The OAS Model Regulations on which regulations are based are designed by OAS member countries to combat illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, ammunition, explosives, and other related materials in North and South America because of their links to such activities as drug trafficking, terrorism, and transnational organized crime.


(e) *OAS member countries to which firearms controls under this section apply.* The OAS member countries include: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, the Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, the United States, Uruguay, and Venezuela.


(f) *Items/Commodities.* Items requiring a license under this section are ECCNs 0A501 (except 0A501.y), 0A502, 0A504 (except 0A504.f), 0A505 (except 0A505.d), 0A506, 0A507, 0A508, and 0A509. (See supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR).




(g) *Validity period for licenses.* Although licenses generally will be valid for a period of four years, your ability to ship items that require an FC Import Certificate or equivalent official document under this section may be affected by the validity of the FC Import Certificate or equivalent official document (see § 748.12(d)(3) of the EAR).



---

[N] [64 FR 17973, Apr. 13, 1999, as amended at 78 FR 13469, Feb. 28, 2013; 80 FR 13217, Mar. 13, 2015; 85 FR 4176, Jan. 23, 2020; 86 FR 46594, Aug. 19, 2021; 89 FR 34705, Apr. 30, 2024]




