# § 11.323   STCW engineer officer endorsements.

(a) Specific requirements for all STCW engineer officer endorsements are detailed in the applicable sections in this part.


(1) Chief Engineer Officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 3,000 kW/4,000 HP propulsion power or more (management level).


(2) Second Engineer Officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 3,000 kW/4,000 HP propulsion power or more (management level).


(3) Officer in Charge of an Engineering Watch (OICEW) in a manned engineroom, or as a Designated Duty Engineer in a periodically unmanned engineroom, on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW/1,000 HP propulsion power or more (operational level).


(4) Chief Engineer Officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of between 750 kW/1,000 HP and 3,000 kW/4,000 HP propulsion power (management level).


(5) Second Engineer Officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW/1,000 HP to 3,000 kW/4,000 HP propulsion power (management level).


(6) Electro-technical Officer on vessels powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW/1,000 HP or more (operational level).


(b) *Limitations.* (1) STCW engineer officer endorsements issued in accordance with §§ 11.325, 11.327, 11.329, 11.331, 11.333, and 11.335 of this subpart will be restricted to specific propulsion modes for steam, motor, or gas turbine-propelled vessels as appropriate.


(2) STCW engineer officer endorsements issued in accordance with §§ 11.325, 11.327, 11.329, 11.331, 11.333, and 11.335 of this subpart for motor or gas turbine-propelled vessels may be endorsed as limited to serve on vessels without auxiliary boilers, waste-heat boilers, distilling plants, oily water separators, or sewage treatment plants. An applicant may qualify for removal of any of these limitations by demonstrating the appropriate competencies.


(c) An engineer officer who does not hold an STCW endorsement may serve on seagoing vessels propelled by machinery of less than 750 kW/1,000 HP, the vessels specified in § 15.105(f) and (g) of this subchapter, and vessels operating on the Great Lakes or inland waters of the United States.


(d) An officer endorsement issued in the grade of Chief Engineer-Limited or Assistant Engineer-Limited allows the holder to serve within any propulsion power limitations on vessels of unlimited tonnage on inland waters, on vessels of less than 3,000 GT in Great Lakes service, and on the vessels specified in § 15.105(f) and (g) of this subchapter.



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77909, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93075, Nov. 25, 2024]






