# ยง 1546.407   Training, testing, and knowledge of individuals who perform screening functions.

(a) *Training required.* Before performing screening functions, an individual must have completed initial, recurrent, and appropriate specialized training as specified in this section and the foreign air carrier's security program. No foreign air carrier may use any screener, screener in charge, or checkpoint security supervisor unless that individual has satisfactorily completed the required training. This paragraph does not prohibit the performance of screening functions during on-the-job training as provided in ยง 1544.409(b).


(b) *Use of training programs.* Training for screeners must be conducted under programs provided by TSA. Training programs for screeners-in-charge and checkpoint security supervisors must be conducted in accordance with the foreign air carrier's security program.


(c) *Classroom instruction.* Each screener must complete at least 40 hours of classroom instruction or successfully complete a program that TSA determines will train individuals to a level of proficiency equivalent to the level that would be achieved by such classroom instruction.


(d) *Screener readiness test.* Before beginning on-the-job training, a screener trainee must pass the screener readiness test prescribed by TSA.


(e) *On-the-job training and testing.* Each screener must complete at least 60 hours of on-the-job training and must pass an on-the-job training test prescribed by TSA. No foreign air carrier may permit a screener trainee to exercise independent judgment as a screener, until the individual passes an on-the-job training test prescribed by TSA.


(f) *Knowledge requirements.* Each foreign air carrier must ensure that individuals performing as screeners, screeners-in-charge, and checkpoint security supervisors for the foreign air carrier have knowledge of the provisions of this part, the foreign air carrier's security program, and applicable emergency amendments to the foreign air carrier's security program to the extent necessary to perform their duties.




