# § 240.12   Processing of checks.

(a) *Federal Reserve Banks.* (1) Federal Reserve Banks must cash checks for Government disbursing officials when such checks are drawn by the disbursing officials to their own order, except that payment of such checks must be refused if:


(i) A check bears a material defect or alteration;


(ii) A check was issued more than one year prior to the date of presentment;


(iii) The Federal Reservice Bank has been notified by Treasury, in accordance with § 240.15(c), that a check was issued to a deceased payee; or


(iv) The Federal Reserve Bank has been notified by Treasury that a check is not valid.


(2) Federal Reserve Banks are not required to cash checks presented directly to them by the general public.


(3) As a depositary of public funds, each Federal Reserve Bank shall:


(i) Receive checks from its member banks, nonmember clearing banks, or other depositors, when indorsed by such banks or depositors who guarantee all prior indorsements thereon;


(ii) Give immediate provisional credit therefore in accordance with their current Time Schedules and charge the amount of the checks cashed or otherwise received to the General Account of the United States Treasury, subject to first examination and payment by Treasury;


(iii) Forward payment records and requested checks to Treasury; and


(iv) Release the original checks and substitute checks to a designated Regional Records Services Facility upon notification from Treasury.


(4) If a check is to be declined under § 240.6, Treasury will provide the Federal Reserve Bank with notice of declination upon the completion of first examination. Federal Reserve Banks must give immediate credit therefor to Treasury's General Account, thereby reversing the previous charge to the General Account for such check.


(5) Treasury authorizes each Federal Reserve Bank to release a copy of the check to the presenting bank when payment is declined.


(b) *Treasury General Account (TGA) designated depositaries outside the United States.* (1) Financial institutions outside the United States designated by Treasury as depositaries of public money in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3303 and permitted to charge checks to the General Account of the United States Treasury in accordance with Treasury implementing instructions shall be governed by the operating instructions contained in the letter of authorization to them from Treasury and are, as presenting banks, subject to the provisions of §§ 240.4, 240.8, and 240.9.


(2) If a check is to be declined under § 240.6, Treasury will provide the presenting bank with notice of declination upon the completion of first examination and will provide the presenting bank with a copy or image of the check. Such presenting bank must give immediate credit therefore to the General Account of the United States Treasury, thereby reversing the previous charge to the Account for such check. Treasury authorizes the designated Federal Reserve Bank to return to such presenting bank the original check when payment is declined in accordance with § 240.5(a) or § 240.15(c).


(3) To ensure complete recovery of the amount due, reclamation refunds require payment in United States dollars with checks drawn on or payable through United States financial institutions located in the United States. Reclamation refunds initiated by financial institutions outside of the United States must be sent through their headquarters or U.S. correspondent financial institution only. The payments should be accompanied by documentation identifying the check that was the subject of the reclamation (such as a copy of the reclamation notice or the current monthly statement). Reclamation refunds shall not be deposited to Treasury's General Account.


(4) Additional information relating to designated depositaries outside the United States may be found in Volume VI, Chapter 2000, of the Treasury Financial Manual, which can be found at *http://www.fiscal.treasury.gov.*


---

[N] [69 FR 61568, Oct. 19, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 74889, Nov. 1, 2023]






