# § 21.3306   Reentrance after interruption.

When a course of special restorative training has been interrupted and the eligible person presents himself or herself for reentrance, the Department of Veterans Affairs will act as follows:


(a) *Reentrance without corrective action.* A counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor will approve reentrance when special restorative training was interrupted:


(1) For a scheduled vacation period, such as a summer break, 


(2) For a short period of illness, or


(3) For other reasons which permit reentrance in the same course of special restorative training without corrective action.


(b) *Consultation with Vocational Rehabilitation Panel.* (1) A counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor will consult with the Vocational Rehabilitation Panel when special restorative training was interrupted—


(i) By reason of failure to maintain satisfactory conduct or progress, or


(ii) For any other reason, which requires corrective action, such as changes of place of training, change of course, personal adjustment, etc.


(2) If the counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor determines that the conditions which caused the interruption can be overcome, he or she will approve the necessary adjustment.


(3) The counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor will make a finding of infeasibility if—


(i) All efforts to effect proper adjustment in the case have failed; and


(ii) There is substantial evidence, resolving any reasonable doubt in favor of the eligible person (as discussed in § 3.102 of this chapter), that additional efforts will be unsuccessful.



---

[N] [48 FR 37973, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 42726, Oct. 24, 1984; 73 FR 2425, Jan. 15, 2008]




