# ยง 511.309   Provisions for traffic and travel conditions reporting.

(a) Minimum requirements for traffic and travel conditions made available by real-time information programs are:


(1) *Construction activities.* The timeliness for the availability of information about full construction activities that close or reopen roadways or lanes will be 20 minutes or less from the time of the closure for highways outside of Metropolitan Areas. For roadways within Metropolitan Areas, the timeliness for the availability of information about full construction activities that close or reopen roadways or lanes will be 10 minutes or less from the time of the closure or reopening. Short-term or intermittent lane closures of limited duration that are less than the required reporting times are not included as a minimum requirement under this section.


(2) *Roadway or lane blocking incidents.* The timeliness for the availability of information related to roadway or lane blocking traffic incidents will be 20 minutes or less from the time that the incident is verified for highways outside of Metropolitan Areas. For roadways within Metropolitan Areas, the timeliness for the availability of information related to roadway or lane blocking traffic incidents will be 10 minutes or less from the time that the incident is verified.


(3) *Roadway weather observations.* The timeliness for the availability of information about hazardous driving conditions and roadway or lane closures or blockages because of adverse weather conditions will be 20 minutes or less from the time the hazardous conditions, blockage, or closure is observed.


(4) *Travel time information.* The timeliness for the availability of travel time information along limited access roadway segments within Metropolitan Areas, as defined under this subpart, will be 10 minutes or less from the time that the travel time calculation is completed.


(5) *Information accuracy.* The designed accuracy for a real-time information program shall be 85 percent accurate at a minimum, or have a maximum error rate of 15 percent.


(6) *Information availability.* The designed availability for a real-time information program shall be 90 percent available at a minimum.


(b) Real-time information programs may be established using legacy monitoring mechanisms applied to the highways, using a statewide incident reporting system, using new monitoring mechanisms applied to the highways, using value-added information products, or using a combination of monitoring mechanisms and value-added information products.




