# § 256.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Agency* means the organizational unit of BIA that provides services to or with the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian tribes.


*Appeal* means a written request for review of an action or inaction of an official of BIA that is claimed to adversely affect the interested party making the request, as provided in part 2 of this chapter.


*Applicant* means an individual(s) filing an application for services under the HIP.


*BIA* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of the Interior.


*Category A* means the HIP funding category for minor repair not to exceed limits in § 256.7 of this part.


*Category B* means the HIP funding category for renovation not to exceed limits in § 256.7 of this part.


*Category C-1* means the HIP funding category to replace a house that cannot be brought up to standard housing condition for $60,000 or less.


*Category C-2* means the HIP funding category for building new housing as defined in § 256.13(g)(1)-(5).


*Category D* means the HIP funding category for assistance as defined in § 256.11(a)-(c).


*Certificate of Title or Ownership* means a document giving legal right to a house constructed with HIP funds.


*Child* means a person under the age of 18 or such other age of majority as is established for purposes of parental support by tribal or state law (if any) applicable to the person at his or her residence, except that no person who has been emancipated by marriage can be deemed a child.


*Cost effective* means the cost of the project is within the cost limits for the category of assistance and adds sufficient years of service to the house to satisfy the recipient's housing needs.


*Dilapidated housing* means a house which in its present condition endangers the life, health, or safety of the residents.


*Disabled* means having a physical or intellectual impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.


*Family* means one or more persons living within a household.


*Homeless* means being without a home.


*House* means a building for human habitation that serves as living quarters for one or more families.


*Household* means persons living with the head of household who may be related or unrelated to the head of household and who function as members of a family.


*Independent trades person* means any person licensed to perform work in a particular vocation pertaining to building construction.


*Indian* means any person who is a member of any federally recognized Indian tribe.


*Indian tribe* means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village or community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to Public Law 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791.


*Overcrowding* means a number of occupants per house that exceeds limits identified in § 256.10(d).


*Permanent members of household* means adults living in the household who intend to live there continuously and any children who meet the definition of *child* in this part.


*Regional Director* means the officer in charge of a BIA regional office or his/her authorized delegate.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior.


*Service area* means any of the following within a geographical area designated by the tribe and approved by the Regional Director to which services can be delivered:


(1) Reservations (former reservations in Oklahoma);


(2) Allotments;


(3) Restricted lands; and


(4) Indian-owned lands (including lands owned by corporations established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act).


*Servicing housing office* means the tribal housing office or bureau housing office administering the HIP.


*Standard housing* means a house that meets the definition of *standard housing condition* in this part.


*Standard housing condition* means meets applicable building codes within that region and meets each of the following conditions:


(1) General construction conforms to applicable tribal, county, State, or national codes and to appropriate building standards for the region.


(2) The heating system has the capacity to maintain a minimum temperature of 70 degrees in the house during the coldest weather in the area and be safe to operate and maintain and deliver a uniform heat distribution.


(3) The plumbing system includes a properly installed system of piping and fixtures certified by a licensed plumbing contractor.


(4) The electrical system includes wiring and equipment properly installed to safely supply electrical energy for lighting and appliance operation certified by a licensed electrician according to the applicable electrical code.


(5) The number of occupants per house does not exceed these limits:


(i) Two-bedroom house: Up to four persons;


(ii) Three-bedroom house: Up to six persons;


(iii) Four-bedroom house: Adequate for all but the largest families.


(6) The first bedroom has up to 120 sq. ft. of floor space and additional bedrooms have up to100 sq. ft. of floor space each.


(7) The house site provides economical access to utilities and is easy to enter and leave.


(8) The house has access to school bus routes, if the household includes children who rely on school buses.


*Substandard housing* means any house that does not meet the definition of *standard housing condition* in this part.


*Superintendent* means the BIA official in charge of an agency office.




