# § 201.34   Procedures for filing Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes the procedures for submission of corrections of Notices of Intent to Enforce a Copyright (NIEs) Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act of December 8, 1994, as required by 17 U.S.C. 104A(e), as amended by Pub. L. 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809, 4976 (1994).


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply.


(1) *Major error.* A major error in filing a Notice of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act is an error in the name of the copyright owner or rightholder, or in the title of the work (as opposed to its translation, if any) where such error fails to adequately identify the restored work or its owner through a reasonable search of the Copyright Office NIE records. Omission of, or incorrect information regarding, a written agency relationship also constitutes a major error.


(2) *Minor error.* A minor error in filing a Notice of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act is any error that is not a major error.


(3) *Restored work.* For the definition of works restored under the URAA, *see* 37 CFR 201.33.


(c) *Forms.* The Copyright Office does not provide forms for Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce filed with the Copyright Office. It requests that filers of such Correction NIEs follow the format set out in Appendix A of this section and give all information listed in paragraph (d) of this section. Correction NIEs must be in English, and should be typed or legibly printed by hand in dark, preferably black ink, on 8
1/2″ by 11″ white paper of good quality with at least a 1″ (or three cm) margin.


(d) *Requirements for Correction Notice of Intent to Enforce a Copyright Restored under the Uruguay Round Agreements Act.* (1) A correction for a Notice of Intent to Enforce should be clearly designated as a “Correction Notice of Intent to Enforce” or “Correction NIE.”


(2) Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce should be addressed to Attn: URAA/GATT, NIE and Registrations and mailed to the address specified in § 201.1.


(3) A Correction NIE shall contain the following information:


(i) The volume and document number of the previous NIE which is to be corrected;


(ii) The title of the work as it appears on the previous NIE, including alternative titles, if they appear;


(iii) The English translation of the title, if any, as it appears on the previous NIE;


(iv) A statement of the erroneous information as it appears on the previous NIE;


(v) A statement of the correct information as it should have appeared and an optional explanation of its correction; or


(vi) A statement of the information to be added. This includes optional information such as:


(A) Type of work;


(B) Rights owned by the party on whose behalf the Correction Notice is filed;


(C) Name of author;


(D) Source country;


(E) Year of publication;


(F) Alternative titles;


(G) An optional explanation of the added information.


(vii) The name and address:


(A) To which correspondence concerning the document should be sent; and


(B) To which the acknowledgment of the recordation of the Correction NIE should be mailed; and


(viii) A certification. The certification shall consist of:


(A) A statement that, for each of the works named above, the person signing the Correction NIE is the copyright owner, or the owner of an exclusive right, or the owner's authorized agent, and that the information is correct to the best of that person's knowledge;


(B) The typed or printed name of the person whose signature appears;


(C) The signature and date of signature; and


(D) The telephone and fax number at which the owner, rightholder, or agent thereof can be reached.


(4) A Correction NIE may cover multiple works in multiple NIE documents for one fee provided that: each work is identified by title; all the works are by the same author; all the works are owned by the same copyright owner or owner of an exclusive right. In the case of Correction NIEs, the notice must separately designate each title to be corrected, noting the incorrect information as it appeared on the previously filed NIE, as well as the corrected information. A single notice covering multiple titles need bear only a single certification.


(5) Copies, phonorecords or supporting documents cannot be made part of the record of a Correction NIE and should not be submitted with the document.


(6) *Time for submitting Correction NIEs.* (i) *Major errors.* The Copyright Office will accept a Correction NIE for a major error concerning a restored work during the 24-month period beginning on the date of restoration of the work, as provided for original NIEs in section 104A(d)(2)(A) of title 17.


(ii) *Minor errors.* The Office will accept a Correction NIE for a minor error or omission concerning a restored work at any time after the original NIE has been filed, as provided in section 104A(e)(1)(A)(iii) of title 17.


(e) *Fee*—(1) *Amount.* The filing fee for recording Correction NIEs is prescribed in § 201.3(c).


(2) *Method of payment.* See 37 CFR 201.33(e)(1),(2).


(f) *Public access.* Correction Notices of Intent to Enforce filed with the Copyright Office are available for public inspection and copying in the Records Research and Certification Section.



---

[N] [62 FR 55739, Oct. 28, 1997, as amended at 71 FR 31092, June 1, 2006; 73 FR 37839, July 2, 2008; 78 FR 42874, July 18, 2013; 82 FR 9359, Feb. 6, 2017]




