# ยง 3550.164   Unauthorized assistance.

(a) *Definition.* Unauthorized assistance includes any loan, payment subsidy, deferred mortgage payment, or grant for which the recipient was not eligible. 


(b) *Unauthorized assistance due to false information.* (1) False information includes information that the recipient knew was incorrect or should have known was incorrect that was provided or omitted for the purposes of obtaining assistance for which the recipient was not eligible. 


(2) If the recipient receives an unauthorized loan due to false information, RHS will adjust the account using the NP interest rate that was in effect when the loan was approved. The recipient must pay the account in full within 30 days. 


(3) If the recipient receives unauthorized subsidy due to false information, RHS will require the recipient to repay it within 30 days. The account cannot be reamortized to include the unauthorized subsidy. If the recipient repays the unauthorized subsidy, the loan may be continued. 


(c) *Unauthorized assistance due to inaccurate information.* (1) Inaccurate information includes incorrect information inadvertently provided, used, or omitted without the intent to obtain benefits for which the recipient was not eligible. 


(2) RHS will permit a recipient who receives an unauthorized loan due to inaccurate information to retain the loan under the following conditions. 


(i) If the inaccurate information was related to the purpose of the loan or the recipient's eligibility, with the exception of income, or the income used was incorrect, but the recipient still qualified as income-eligible, RHS will allow the recipient to continue the loan on existing terms. 


(ii) If a section 502 recipient's income was above the moderate-income level, RHS will convert the loan to an NP loan, using the nonprogram interest rate in effect on the date the loan was approved. 


(iii) If a section 504 recipient's income was above the very low-income level, RHS will apply the applicable 502 or nonprogram interest rate in effect on the date the loan was approved. 


(iv) If an incorrect interest rate was used, RHS will adjust the account using the correct interest rate. 


(3) If the recipient receives unauthorized subsidy due to inaccurate information, RHS will require the recipient to repay it within 30 days. If the recipient cannot repay it within 30 days, the account may be reamortized. If the recipient repays the unauthorized subsidy or reamortizes the loan, the loan may be continued. 


(d) *Unauthorized grants.* Recipients may either repay the unauthorized assistance in a lump sum or execute a promissory note, regardless of whether the unauthorized assistance was due to false or inaccurate information. RHS may seek a judgment if the recipient refuses to repay the unauthorized assistance. 


(e) *Account servicing.* RHS will adjust all accounts retroactively to establish the amount of unauthorized assistance. If the recipient does not repay the unauthorized assistance within 30 days, RHS may accelerate the loan. If the unauthorized assistance is due to inaccurate information and the recipient is unable to repay within 30 days, RHS may reamortize the loan. 


(f) *Accounts with no security.* If an unauthorized loan or grant is unsecured, RHS may seek the best mortgage obtainable. 




