# § 491.2   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise:


*Certified nurse-midwife (CNM)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements at § 410.77(a) of this chapter.


*Clinical psychologist (CP)* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements of § 410.71(d) of this chapter.


*Clinical social worker* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements at § 410.73(a) of this chapter.


*Direct services* means services provided by the clinic's staff.


*FQHC* means an entity as defined in § 405.2401(b).


*Marriage and family therapist* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements at § 410.53 of this chapter.


*Mental health counselor* means an individual who meets the applicable education, training, and other requirements at § 410.54 of this chapter.


*Nurse practitioner* means a person who meets the applicable State requirements governing the qualifications for nurse practitioners, and who meets at least one of the following conditions:


(1) Is certified as a nurse practitioner by a recognized national certifying body that has established standards for nurse practitioners and possesses a master's or doctoral degree in nursing practice; or


(2) Has satisfactorily completed a formal 1 academic year educational program that:


(i) Prepares registered nurses to perform an expanded role in the delivery of primary care;


(ii) Includes at least 4 months (in the aggregate) of classroom instruction and a component of supervised clinical practice; and


(iii) Awards a degree, diploma, or certificate to persons who successfully complete the program; or


(3) Has successfully completed a formal educational program (for preparing registered nurses to perform an expanded role in the delivery of primary care) that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (2) of this definition, and has been performing an expanded role in the delivery of primary care for a total of 12 months during the 18-month period immediately preceding the effective date of this subpart.


*Physician* means the following:


(1) As it pertains to the supervision, collaboration, and oversight requirements in sections 1861(aa)(2)(B) and (aa)(3) of the Act, a doctor of medicine or osteopathy legally authorized to practice medicine or surgery in the State in which the function is performed; and


(2) Within limitations as to the specific services furnished, a doctor of dental surgery or of dental medicine, a doctor of optometry, a doctor of podiatry or surgical chiropody or a chiropractor (see section 1861(r) of the Act for specific limitations).


*Physician assistant* means a person who meets the applicable State requirements governing the qualifications for assistants to primary care physicians, and who meets at least one of the following conditions:


(1) Is currently certified by the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants to assist primary care physicians; or


(2) Has satisfactorily completed a program for preparing physician's assistants that:


(i) Was at least 1 academic year in length;


(ii) Consisted of supervised clinical practice and at least 4 months (in the aggregate) of classroom instruction directed toward preparing students to deliver health care; and


(iii) Was accredited by the American Medical Association's Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation; or


(3) Has satisfactorily completed a formal educational program (for preparing physician assistants) that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (2) of this definition and assisted primary care physicians for a total of 12 months during the 18-month period that ended on December 31, 1986.


*Rural area* means an area that is not delineated as an urbanized area by the Bureau of the Census.


*Rural health clinic or clinic* means a clinic that is located in a rural area designated as a shortage area, is not a rehabilitation agency or a facility primarily for the care and treatment of mental diseases, and meets all other requirements of this subpart.


*Shortage area* means a defined geographic area designated by the Department as having either a shortage of personal health services (under section 1302(7) of the Public Health Service Act) or a shortage of primary medical care manpower (under section 332 of that Act).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or any official to whom he has delegated the pertinent authority.



---

[N] [71 FR 55345, Sept. 22, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 27156, May 12, 2014; 88 FR 79552, Nov. 16, 2023]




