# § 32.50-15   Cargo piping on tank vessels constructed on or after July 1, 1951—TB/ALL.

(a) On all tank vessels, the construction or conversion of which is started on or after July 1, 1951, the cargo piping shall be: 


(1) A fixed cargo piping system shall be installed on a tank vessel carrying Grade A, B, or C cargo. The piping shall be arranged so as to avoid excessive stresses at the joints. For sizes exceeding 2 inches in diameter, flanged, welded, or other approved types of joints shall be employed. Packing material shall be suitable for the cargo carried. Connections at bulkheads shall be made so that the plating does not form part of a flanged joint. Piping may be carried through bunker spaces and deep tanks provided it is run through a pipe tunnel. The tunnel may be omitted where the pipe is extra heavy, all joints are welded, and bends are installed to provide for expansion and contraction. 


(2) Tank vessels carrying only Grades D and E cargo may use a portable piping system in lieu of a fixed piping system meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided:


(i) The hose complies with 33 CFR 154.500 or the portable piping complies with part 56 of this chapter;


(ii) The connections comply with 33 CFR 156.130;


(iii) A shutoff valve is at or near the point of entry into the tank;


(iv) Except for the carriage of animal fats and vegetable oils, the system has a closure which forms a vapor-tight seal on the tank opening through which the cargo is transferred, is bolted or dogged in place, and has the hose and drop line connected to it; and


(v) Except for the carriage of animal fats and vegetable oils, the system has a metallic drop line which complies with 46 CFR 153.282.


(3) Cargo piping shall not pass through spaces containing machinery where sources of vapor ignition are normally present: *Provided,* That, in special cases the Commandant may permit the piping to pass through such spaces if Grade E liquids only are involved. 


(b) Valve operating rods in cargo tanks shall be solid, except that tank barges having plug cocks inside the cargo tanks may have operating rods of extra heavy pipe with the annular space between the lubricant tube and the pipe wall sealed with a nonsoluble material to prevent penetration of the cargo. Valve operating rods shall be of ample size, well guided and supported, and attached to the valve stems in a manner so as to prevent the operating rods from working loose. Where the operating rods pass through a deck, gastight stuffing boxes shall be fitted. The leads of operating rods shall be as direct as possible. Valves shall be of suitable design for the intended service. 


(c) All cargo loading and discharge hose connections shall be fitted with valves or blind flanges. 



---

[N] [CGFR 65-50, 30 FR 16671, Dec. 30, 1965, as amended by CGD 80-009, 48 FR 36458, Aug. 11, 1983]




