# § 63.1439   General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.

(a) *Data retention.* Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source shall keep copies of all applicable records and reports required by this subpart for at least 5 years. All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed. The most recent 6 months of records shall be retained on site or shall be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provide access within 2 hours after a request. The remaining 4 and one-half years of records may be retained offsite. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on microfilm, computer, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche. If an owner or operator submits copies of reports to the applicable EPA Regional Office, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of reports. If the EPA Regional Office has waived the requirement of § 63.10(a)(4)(ii) for submittal of copies of reports, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of reports.


(b) *Subpart A requirements.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A (the General Provisions) as specified in Table 1 of this subpart. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) *Malfunction recordkeeping and reporting.* (i) *Records of malfunctions.* The owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, and duration of each failure.


(B) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(C) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1420(h)(4), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(ii) *Reports of malfunctions.* If a source fails to meet an applicable standard, report such events in the Periodic Report. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(2) *Application for approval of construction or reconstruction.* For new affected sources, the owner or operator shall comply with the General Provisions' requirements for the application for approval of construction or reconstruction, as specified in § 63.5, excluding the provisions specified in § 63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H), (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2), and (d)(3)(ii).


(c) *Subpart H requirements.* The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the HON equipment leak reporting and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, except as specified in § 63.1434(b) through (h).


(d) *Recordkeeping and documentation.* The owner or operator required to keep continuous records shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.1432(i) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section apply. As described in § 63.1432(i), certain storage vessels are not required to keep continuous records as specified in this paragraph. The owner or operator of such storage vessels shall keep records as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.1432(i).


(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once during approximately equal 15-minute intervals.


(2) The owner or operator shall record either each measured data value or block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values. The owner or operator of process vents from batch unit operations shall record each measured data value.


(3) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (d)(6) and (7) of this section.


(i) The daily average value shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values recorded during the operating day, except as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. The calculated average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous. If intermittent emissions episodes occur resulting in emissions being vented to a combustion, recapture, or recovery device for a period of less than 24 hours in the operating day, the daily average shall be calculated based only on the period when emissions are being vented to the combustion, recapture, or recovery device. For example, if a batch unit operation operates such that emissions are vented to a combustion device for 6 hours, then the daily average is the average of the temperature measurements taken during those 6 hours.


(ii) The operating day shall be the 24-hour period that the owner or operator specifies in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status, for purposes of determining daily average values.


(4)-(5) [Reserved]


(6) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum level or below the maximum level established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum level or below the maximum level rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day.


(7) Monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation when monitors are not operating.


(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or


(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.


(8) For continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart, records documenting the completion of calibration checks, and records documenting the maintenance of continuous monitoring systems that are specified in the manufacturer's instructions or that are specified in other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.


(9) The owner or operator of an affected source granted a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements under the General Provisions' recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.10(f) shall maintain the information, if any, specified by the Administrator as a condition of the waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.


(10) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(10)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.


(i) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(4).


(ii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(1).


(iii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(2)(ii).


(iv) The dates and results of the Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(1) and (2). The results shall include:


(A) The background level measured during each compliance test.


(B) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.


(v) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1434(c)(3), keep records of each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:


(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.


(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.


(C) The quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.


(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.


(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.


(e) *Reporting and notification.* In addition to the reports and notifications required by 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, as specified in this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and submit the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(3) through (9) of this section, as applicable. All reports required by this subpart, and the schedule for their submittal, are listed in Table 8 of this subpart.


(1) *Violation of reporting requirements.* Owners and operators shall not be in violation of the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e) for failing to submit information required to be included in a specified report if the owner or operator meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. Examples of circumstances where this paragraph may apply include information related to newly-added equipment or emission points, changes in the process, changes in equipment required or utilized for compliance with the requirements of this subpart, or changes in methods or equipment for monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting.


(i) The information was not known in time for inclusion in the report specified by this subpart.


(ii) The owner or operator has been diligent in obtaining the information.


(iii) The owner or operator submits a report according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) If this subpart expressly provides for supplements to the report in which the information is required, the owner or operator shall submit the information as a supplement to that report. The information shall be submitted no later than 60 days after it is obtained, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.


(B) If this subpart does not expressly provide for supplements, but the owner or operator must submit a request for revision of an operating permit pursuant to the State operating permit programs in part 70 or the Federal operating permit programs in part 71, due to circumstances to which the information pertains, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the request for revision to the operating permit.


(C) In any case not addressed by paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the first Periodic Report, as required by this subpart, which has a submission deadline at least 60 days after the information is obtained.


(2) *Submittal of reports.* All reports required under this subpart shall be sent to the Administrator at the applicable address listed in the General Provisions' list of addresses of State air pollution control agencies and EPA Regional Offices, in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.


(3) *Initial Notification.* The owner or operator of a new affected source shall submit a written Initial Notification to the Administrator containing the information described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section. The General Provisions' Initial Notification requirements in § 63.9(b)(2) and (3) shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(i) The Initial Notification shall include the following information:


(A) The name and address of the owner or operator;


(B) The address (physical location) of the affected source;


(C) An identification of the kinds of emission points within the affected source;


(D) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date; and


(E) A statement of whether or not the affected source is a major source.


(ii) The Initial Notification shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable.


(A) [Reserved]


(B) For a new source that has an initial start-up on or after August 30, 1999, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by the General Provisions in § 63.5(d) shall be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification. The application shall be submitted as soon as practical before construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but it need not be sooner than August 30, 1999). For a new source that reclassifies to major source status after January 19, 2021, and greater than 90 days after the initial start-up, the source shall submit the initial notification required by 63.9(b) no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.


(C) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to August 30, 1999, the Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than August 30, 1999, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction described in the General Provisions' requirements in § 63.5(d) is not required for these sources.


(4) *Precompliance Report.* The owner or operator of an affected source requesting an extension for compliance; requesting approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; or requesting approval to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1438(c) or (d) shall submit a Precompliance Report according to the schedule described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. The Precompliance Report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii) through (viii) of this section, as appropriate.


(i) The Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 12 months prior to the compliance date. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved. For new affected sources, the Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii) of this section. To submit a Precompliance Report for the first time after the compliance date to request an extension for compliance; request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; or request approval to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1438(c) or (d), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing within 45 days of receipt.


(ii) A request for an extension for compliance, as specified in § 63.1422(e), may be submitted in the Precompliance Report. The request for a compliance extension shall include the data outlined in the General Provisions' compliance requirements in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A) and (B), as required in § 63.1422(e)(1).


(iii) The alternative monitoring parameter information required in paragraph (f) of this section shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of an affected source seeks to comply through the use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in this subpart or in 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or seeks to comply by monitoring a different parameter than those specified in this subpart or in 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.


(iv) If the affected source seeks to comply using alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a request for approval in the Precompliance Report.


(v) The owner or operator shall report the intent to use an alternative emission standard to comply with the provisions of this subpart in the Precompliance Report. The Administrator may deem an alternative emission standard to be equivalent to the standard required by the subpart, under the procedures outlined in the General Provisions' requirements for use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard, in § 63.6(g).


(vi) [Reserved]


(vii) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii)(A) of this section, or as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii)(B) of this section. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in a supplement to the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.


(A) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to clarify or modify information previously submitted.


(B) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section; to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section; or to use alternative controls, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(v) of this section.


(viii) If an owner or operator establishes parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in the parameter monitoring provisions in § 63.1438(c) or (d), the following information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report:


(A) Identification of which procedures (i.e., § 63.1438(c) or (d)) are to be used; and


(B) A description of how the parameter monitoring level is to be established. If the procedures in § 63.1438(c) are to be used, a description of how performance test data will be used shall be included.


(5) *Notification of Compliance Status.* For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.1422. For equipment leaks subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON equipment leak Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.182(c), in the Notification of Compliance Status required by this paragraph. For all other emission points, including heat exchange systems, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (vii) of this section. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1434(c)(3), the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (e)(5)(viii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.


(i) The results of any emission point group determinations, process section applicability determinations, performance tests, inspections, continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, any other information required by the test method to be in the test report used to demonstrate compliance, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information required to be included in a Notification of Compliance Status under the requirements for overlapping regulations in § 63.1422(j), the HON storage vessel reporting provisions in § 63.122 and the storage vessel provisions in § 63.1432, and the HON process wastewater reporting provisions in § 63.146. In addition, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) For performance tests, group determinations, or determination that controls are needed, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, as described in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.


(B) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards (if the owner or operator prepares the standards), record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report.


(ii) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established under the HON process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.114(e) and the process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.1429(d), the HON process wastewater parameter monitoring requirements in § 63.143(f), paragraph (e)(8) of this section, or paragraph (f) of this section, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section shall be submitted. Further, as described in the storage vessel provisions in § 63.1432(k), for those storage vessels for which the parameter monitoring plan (required to be submitted under the HON Notification of Compliance Status requirements for storage vessels in § 63.120(d)(3)) specifies compliance with the parameter monitoring provisions of § 63.1438, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section for each monitoring parameter. For those storage vessels for which the parameter monitoring plan required to be submitted under the HON Notification of Compliance Status requirements for storage vessels in § 63.120(d)(2) does not require compliance with the provisions of § 63.1438, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3) as part of the Notification of Compliance Status.


(A) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.


(B) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates that the combustion, recovery, or recapture device is operated in a manner to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart.


(C) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters.


(iii) The determination of applicability for flexible operation units as specified in § 63.1420(e)(1)(iii).


(iv) The parameter monitoring levels for flexible operation units, and the basis on which these levels were selected, or a demonstration that these levels are appropriate at all times, as specified in § 63.1420(e)(5)(ii)(A). 


(v) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.1420(f)(1) through (7), for storage vessels assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.


(vi) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.1422(j), and if the provisions of § 63.1422(j) allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.


(vii) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility. An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 process vent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee, and the identification of the Group 1 process vent.


(viii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under paragraphs (d)(10)(v)(B) and (C) of this section (i.e., the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release).


(6) *Periodic Reports.* For existing and new affected sources, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (ix) of this section. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON periodic reporting requirements in § 63.182(d), and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON heat exchange system reporting requirements in § 63.104(f)(2), as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6).


(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(viii) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section or paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 180-day period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. Subsequent reports shall cover each preceding 6-month period.


(ii) If none of the compliance exceptions in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section occurred during the 6-month period, the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section shall be a statement that there were no compliance exceptions, as described in this paragraph, for the 6-month period covered by that report and that none of the activities specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section occurred during the period covered by that report.


(iii) For an owner or operator of an affected source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.1432 through 63.1433 for any emission point, Periodic Reports shall include:


(A) All information specified in the HON periodic reporting requirements in § 63.122(a)(4) for storage vessels and in § 63.146(c) through § 63.146(f) for process wastewater.


(B) The daily average values of monitored parameters for all excursions, as defined in § 63.1438(f).


(C) The periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified; and


(D) The information in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(D)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, as applicable:


(*1*) Notification if a process change is made such that the group status of any emission point changes from Group 2 to Group 1. The owner or operator is not required to submit a notification of a process change if that process change caused the group status of an emission point to change from Group 1 to Group 2. However, until the owner or operator notifies the Administrator that the group status of an emission point has changed from Group 1 to Group 2, the owner or operator is required to continue to comply with the Group 1 requirements for that emission point. This notification may be submitted at any time.


(*2*) Notification if one or more emission points (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434), or one or more PMPU is added to an affected source. The owner or operator shall submit the information contained in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(D)(*2*)(i) and (*ii*) of this section.


(*i*) A description of the addition to the affected source.


(*ii*) Notification of the group status or control requirement for the additional emission point or all emission points in the PMPU.


(*3*) For gas streams sent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) or for process wastewater streams sent for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g), reports of changes in the identity of the treatment facility or transferee.


(E) The information in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for reports of malfunctions.


(iv) If any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:


(A) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.


(B) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.


(v) The results for each change made to a primary product determination for a PMPU made under § 63.1420(e)(3) or (10).


(vi) The results for each reevaluation of the applicability of this subpart to a storage vessel that begins receiving material from (or sending material to) a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or a storage vessel that ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit that was included in the initial determination, in accordance with § 63.1420(f)(8).


(vii) The Periodic Report required by the equipment leak provisions in § 63.1434(f) shall be submitted as part of the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6) of this section.


(viii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for particular emission points and process sections as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(viii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for a period of 1 year for an emission point or process section if the emission point or process section meets the conditions in paragraph (e)(6)(viii)(A)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) A combustion, recovery, or recapture device for a particular emission point or process section has one or more excursions, as defined in § 63.1438(f), in two consecutive semiannual reporting periods; or


(*2*) The Administrator requests the owner or operator to submit quarterly reports for that emission point or process section.


(B) The quarterly reports shall include all information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section, as applicable to the emission point or process section for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (e)(6)(viii)(A) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the affected source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.


(C) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.


(D) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for 1 year without one or more excursions occurring (during that year), the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point or process section.


(ix) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(ix)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1434(c), report confirmation that all monitoring to show compliance was conducted within the reporting period.


(B) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.1434(c)(2), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, more than 5 calendar days after the pressure release.


(C) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1434(c)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:


(*1*) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.


(*2*) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.


(*3*) The quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the method used for determining this quantity.


(*4*) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.


(*5*) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure 


(7) *Other reports.* Other reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section. 


(i) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by § 63.1432 shall be submitted, as specified in the HON storage vessel provisions in § 63.122(h)(1) and (2). 


(ii) When the conditions at § 63.1420(e)(3)(iii), (e)(9), or (e)(10) are met, reports of changes to the primary product for a PMPU or process unit, as required by § 63.1420(e)(3)(iii), (e)(9), or (e)(10)(iii), respectively, shall be submitted. 


(iii) Owners or operators of PMPU or emission points (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434) that are subject to provisions for changes or additions to plant sites in § 63.1420(g)(1) or (2) shall submit a report as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. 


(A) Reports shall include: 


(*1*) A description of the process change or addition, as appropriate; 


(*2*) The planned start-up date and the appropriate compliance date, according to § 63.1420(g)(1) or (2); and


(*3*) Identification of the group status of emission points (except equipment leak components subject to the requirements in § 63.1434) specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(A)(*3*)(*i*) through (*iii*) of this section, as applicable. 


(*i*) All the emission points in the added PMPU, as described in § 63.1420(g)(1). 


(*ii*) All the emission points in an affected source designated as a new affected source under § 63.1420(g)(2)(i). 


(*iii*) All the added or created emission points as described in § 63.1420(g)(2)(ii) or (iii). 


(*4*) If the owner or operator wishes to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring or recordkeeping, alternative controls, or wishes to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1438(c) or (d), a Precompliance Report shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(B) of this section. 


(B) Reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(iii)(B)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section, as appropriate. 


(*1*) Owners or operators of an added PMPU subject to § 63.1420(g)(1) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for the PMPU. 


(*2*) Owners or operators of an affected source designated as a new affected source under § 63.1420(g)(2)(i) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for the affected source. 


(*3*) Owners and operators of any emission point (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434) subject to § 63.1420(g)(2)(ii) or (iii) shall submit a report no later than 180 days prior to the compliance date for those emission points.


(8) *Operating permit application.* An owner or operator who submits an operating permit application instead of a Precompliance Report shall submit the information specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, as applicable, with the operating permit application.


(9) *Electronic reporting.* Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2), the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart according to the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(9)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA-provided software, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the EPA by direct computer-to-computer electronic transfer via EPA-provided software, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator. Owners or operators, who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI), must submit a complete file using EPA-provided software that includes information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA by direct computer-to-computer electronic transfer via EPA-provided software.


(ii) For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not compatible with the EPA-provided software, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4.


(f) *Alternative monitoring parameters.* The owner or operator who has been directed by any section of this subpart, or any section of another subpart referenced by this subpart, that specifically references this paragraph to set unique monitoring parameters, or who requests approval to monitor a different parameter than those listed in § 63.1432 for storage vessels, § 63.1427 for ECO, § 63.1429 for process vents, or § 63.143 for process wastewater shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section in the Precompliance Report, as required by paragraph (e)(4) of this section. The owner or operator shall retain for a period of 5 years each record required by paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The required information shall include a description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure the combustion, recovery, or recapture device; control technique; or pollution prevention measure is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limit, percent reduction, or nominal efficiency, and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).


(2) The required information shall include a description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that the owner or operator will establish a level for the monitored parameter as part of the Notification of Compliance Status report required in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, unless this information has already been included in the operating permit application.


(3) The required information shall include a description of the proposed monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting system, to include the frequency and content of monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. Further, the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting system shall be included if either condition in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section is met:


(i) If monitoring and recordkeeping is not continuous; or


(ii) If reports of daily average values will not be included in Periodic Reports when the monitored parameter value is above the maximum level or below the minimum level as established in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status.


(g) *Alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping.* An owner or operator choosing not to implement the continuous parameter operating and recordkeeping provisions listed in § 63.1429 for process vents, and § 63.1433 for wastewater, may instead request approval to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping provisions according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section. Requests shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section, and shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) and (g)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable.


(1) The provisions in the General Provisions requirements for the use of an alternative monitoring method in § 63.8(f)(5)(i) shall govern the review and approval of requests.


(2) An owner or operator of an affected source that does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of measuring parameter values at least once during approximately equal 15-minute intervals and that does not generate continuous records may request approval to use a nonautomated system with less frequent monitoring, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The requested system shall include visual reading and recording of the value of the relevant operating parameter no less frequently than once per hour. Daily averages shall be calculated from these hourly values and recorded.


(ii) The request shall contain:


(A) A description of the planned monitoring and recordkeeping system;


(B) Documentation that the affected source does not have an automated monitoring and recording system;


(C) Justification for requesting an alternative monitoring and recordkeeping system; and


(D) Demonstration that the proposed monitoring frequency is sufficient to represent combustion, recovery, or recapture device operating conditions, considering typical variability of the specific process and combustion, recovery, or recapture device operating parameter being monitored.


(3) An owner or operator may request approval to use an automated data compression recording system that does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency (for example, once at approximately equal intervals of about 15 minutes), but that records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values, in accordance with paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) The requested system shall be designed to:


(A) Measure the operating parameter value at least once during approximately equal 15-minute intervals;


(B) Record at least four values each hour during periods of operation;


(C) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on;


(D) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident;


(E) Calculate daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on all measured data; and


(F) If the daily average is not an excursion, as defined in § 63.1438(f), the data for that operating day may be converted to hourly average values and the four or more individual records for each hour in the operating day may be discarded.


(ii) The request shall contain:


(A) A description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained;


(B) The method for calculating daily averages; and


(C) A demonstration that the system meets all criteria in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section.


(4) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring systems according to the procedures specified in the General Provisions' requirements for using an alternative monitoring method in § 63.8(f)(4).


(h) *Reduced recordkeeping program.* For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions that would otherwise apply under this subpart. The owner or operator shall retain for a period of 5 years each record required by paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average value, and is not required to retain more frequent monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section are met. An owner or operator electing to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the Periodic Report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(i) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation (e.g., a temperature reading of −200 °C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.


(ii) The monitoring system generates, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, a running average of the monitoring values that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this running average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the criteria in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.


(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits; and


(B) The running average is based on at least six 1-hour average values.


(iii) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of operation, except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data are the expected operating condition based on past experience (e.g., pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.


(iv) The monitoring system will alert the owner or operator by an alarm or other means, if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.


(v) The owner or operator shall verify the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, at the times specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(v)(A) through (C) of this section. The owner or operator shall document that the required verifications occurred.


(A) Upon initial installation.


(B) Annually after initial installation.


(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, which might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.


(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Identification of each parameter, for each item of equipment, for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.


(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s), and how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The description shall identify the location and format (e.g., on-line storage, log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent superseded description, as specified in paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.


(C) A description, and the date, of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to affect its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.


(D) The owner or operator subject to paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current. The current description shall, at all times, be retained on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain all superseded descriptions for at least 5 years after the date of their creation. Superseded descriptions shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request) for at least 6 months after their creation. Thereafter, superseded descriptions may be stored off-site.


(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average value, for any operating day when the daily average is less than the maximum, or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring accomplished during the period prior to the compliance date was required and/or approved by the Administrator.


(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.


(ii) If, on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily average values as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average value for each operating day and shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.


(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, for the duration specified in paragraph (h) of this section. For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation.


(iv) For the purposes of paragraph (h) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value.



---

[N] [64 FR 29439, June 1, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 26502, May 8, 2000; 71 FR 20461, Apr. 20, 2006; 79 FR 17379, Mar. 27, 2014; 85 FR 73900, Nov. 19, 2020]





