# § 142.12   Revision of State programs.

(a) *General requirements.* Either EPA or the primacy State may initiate actions that require the State to revise its approved State primacy program. To retain primary enforcement responsibility, States must adopt all new and revised national primary drinking water regulations promulgated in part 141 of this chapter and any other requirements specified in this part.


(1) Whenever a State revises its approved primacy program to adopt new or revised Federal regulations, the State must submit a request to the Administrator for approval of the program revision, using the procedures described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section. The Administrator shall approve or disapprove each State request for approval of a program revision based on the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act and of this part.


(2) For all State program revisions not covered under § 142.12(a)(1), the review procedures outlined in § 142.17(a) shall apply.


(b) *Timing of State requests for approval of program revisions to adopt new or revised Federal regulations.* (1) Complete and final State requests for approval of program revisions to adopt new or revised EPA regulations must be submitted to the Administrator not later than 2 years after promulgation of the new or revised EPA regulations, unless the State requests an extension and the Administrator has approved the request pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If the State expects to submit a final State request for approval of a program revision to EPA more than 2 years after promulgation of the new or revised EPA regulations, the State shall request an extension of the deadline before the expiration of the 2-year period.


(2) The final date for submission of a complete and final State request for a program revision may be extended by EPA for up to a two-year period upon a written application by the State to the Administrator. In the extension application the State must demonstrate it is requesting the extension because it cannot meet the original deadline for reasons beyond its control despite a good faith effort to do so. The application must include a schedule for the submission of a final request by a certain time and provide sufficient information to demonstrate that the State:


(i)(A) Currently lacks the legislative or regulatory authority to enforce the new or revised requirements, or 


(B) Currently lacks the program capability adequate to implement the new or revised requirements; or


(C) Is requesting the extension to group two or more program revisions in a single legislative or regulatory action; and


(ii) Is implementing the EPA requirements to be adopted by the State in its program revision pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section within the scope of its current authority and capabilities.


(3) To be granted an extension, the State must agree with EPA to meet certain requirements during the extension period, which may include the following types of activities as determined appropriate by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis:


(i) Informing public water systems of the new EPA (and upcoming State) requirements and that EPA will be overseeing implementation of the requirements until the State, if eligible for interim primacy, submits a complete and final primacy revision request to EPA, or in all other cases, until EPA approves the State program revision; 


(ii) Collecting, storing and managing laboratory results, public notices, and other compliance and operation data required by the EPA regulations;


(iii) Assisting EPA in the development of the technical aspects of enforcement actions and conducting informal follow-up on violations (telephone calls, letters, etc.);


(iv) Providing technical assistance to public water systems;


(v) Providing EPA with all information prescribed by § 142.15 of this part on State reporting; and


(vi) For States whose request for an extension is based on a current lack of program capability adequate to implement the new requirements, taking steps agreed to by EPA and the State during the extension period to remedy the deficiency.


(c) *Contents of a State request for approval of a program revision.* (1) The State request for EPA approval of a program revision shall be concise and must include:


(i) The documentation necessary (pursuant to § 142.11(a)) to update the approved State primacy program, and identification of those elements of the approved State primacy program that have not changed because of the program revision. The documentation shall include a side-by-side comparison of the Federal requirements and the corresponding State authorities, including citations to the specific statutes and administrative regulations or ordinances and, wherever appropriate, judicial decisions which demonstrate adequate authority to meet the requirements of § 142.10 as they apply to the program revision.


(ii) Any additional materials that are listed in § 142.16 of this part for a specific EPA regulation, as appropriate; and


(iii) For a complete and final State request only, unless one of the conditions listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section are met, a statement by the State Attorney General (or the attorney for the State primacy agency if it has independent legal counsel) or the attorney representing the Indian tribe that certifies that the laws and regulations adopted by the State or tribal ordinances to carry out the program revision were duly adopted and are enforceable. State statutes and regulations cited by the State Attorney General and tribal ordinances cited by the attorney for the Indian tribe shall be in the form of lawfully adopted State statutes and regulations or tribal ordinances at the time the certification is made and shall be fully effective by the time the request for program revision is approved by EPA. To qualify as “independent legal counsel,” the attorney signing the statement required by this section shall have full authority to independently represent the State primacy agency or tribe in court on all matters pertaining to the State or tribal program.


(2) An Attorney General's statement will be required as part of the State request for EPA approval of a program revision unless EPA specifically waives this requirement for a specific regulation at the time EPA promulgates the regulation, or by later written notice from the Administrator to the State.


(3) After EPA has received the documents required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, EPA may selectively require supplemental statements by the State Attorney General (or the attorney for the State primacy agency if it has independent legal counsel) or the attorney representing the Indian tribe. Each supplemental statement shall address all issues concerning the adequacy of State authorities to meet the requirements of § 142.10 that have been identified by EPA after thorough examination as unresolved by the documents submitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Procedures for review of a State request for approval of a program revision*—(1) *Preliminary request.* (i) The State may submit to the Administrator for his or her review a preliminary request for approval of each program revision, containing the information listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, *in draft form.* The preliminary request does not require an Attorney General's statement in draft form, but does require draft State statutory or regulatory changes and a side-by-side comparison of State authorities with EPA requirements to demonstrate that the State program revision meets EPA requirements under § 142.10 of this part. The preliminary request should be submitted to the Administrator as soon as practicable after the promulgation of the EPA regulations.


(ii) The Administrator will review the preliminary request submitted in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section and make a tentative determination on the request. The Administrator will send the tentative determination and other comments or suggestions to the State for its use in developing the State's final request under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) *Final request.* The State must submit a complete and final request for approval of a program revision to the Administrator for his or her review and approval. The request must contain the information listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section *in complete and final form,* in accordance with any tentative determination EPA may have issued. Complete and final State requests for program revisions shall be submitted within two years of the promulgation of the new or revised EPA regulations, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *EPA's determination on a complete and final request.* (i) The Administrator shall act on a State's request for approval of a program revision within 90 days after determining that the State request is complete and final and shall promptly notify the State of his/her determination.


(ii) If the Administrator disapproves a final request for approval of a program revision, the Administrator will notify the State in writing. Such notification will include a statement of the reasons for disapproval.


(iii) A final determination by the Administrator on a State's request for approval of a program revision shall take effect in accordance with the public notice requirements and related procedures under § 142.13.


(e) *Interim primary enforcement authority.* A State with an approved primacy program for each existing national primary drinking water regulation shall be considered to have interim primary enforcement authority with respect to each new or revised national drinking water regulation that it adopts beginning when the new or revised State regulation becomes effective or when the complete primacy revision application is submitted to the Administrator, whichever is later, and shall end when the Administrator approves or disapproves the State's revised primacy program.



---

[N] [54 FR 52138, Dec. 20, 1989, as amended at 63 FR 23367, Apr. 28, 1998; 66 FR 3780, Jan. 16, 2001]




