# ยง 574.130   Formula allocations.

(a) *Data sources.* HUD will allocate funds based on the number of cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome reported to and confirmed by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control, and on population data provided by the U.S. Census. The number of cases of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome used for this purpose shall be the number reported as of March 31 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the amounts are appropriated and allocated.


(b) *Distribution of appropriated funds for entitlement awards.* (1) Seventy-five percent of the funds allocated under the formula is distributed to qualifying cities and eligible States, as described in ยง 574.100, based on each metropolitan statistical area's or State's proportionate share of the cumulative number of AIDS cases in all eligible metropolitan statistical areas and eligible States.


(2) The remaining twenty-five percent is allocated among qualifying cities, but not States, where the per capita incidence of AIDS for the year, April 1 through March 31, preceding the fiscal year of the appropriation is higher than the average for all metropolitan statistical areas with more than 500,000 population. Each qualifying city's allocation reflects its EMSA's proportionate share of the high incidence factor among EMSA's with higher than average per capita incidence of AIDS. The high incidence factor is computed by multiplying the population of the metropolitan statistical area by the difference between its twelve-month-per-capita-incidence rate and the average rate for all metropolitan statistical areas with more than 500,000 population. The EMSA's proportionate share is determined by dividing its high incidence factor by the sum of the high incidence factors for all EMSA's with higher than average per capita incidence of AIDS.


(c) *Minimum grant.* No grant awarded under paragraph (b) of this section shall be less than $200,000. Therefore, if the calculations under paragraph (b) of this section would result in any eligible metropolitan statistical area or eligible State receiving less than $200,000, the amount allocated to that entity is increased to $200,000 and allocations to entities in excess of $200,000 are proportionately reduced by the amount of the increase.




