# § 171.107   Standards for recertification of certified applicators.

(a) *Maintenance of continued competency.* Each commercial and private applicator certification shall expire five years after issuance, unless the applicator is recertified in accordance with this section. A certifying authority may establish a shorter certification period. In order for a certified applicator's certification to continue without interruption, the certified applicator must be recertified under this section before the expiration of his or her current certification.


(b) *Process for recertification.* Minimum standards for recertification by written examination, or through continuing education programs, are as follows:


(1) *Written examination.* A certified applicator may be found eligible for recertification upon passing a written examination approved by the certifying authority and that is designed to evaluate whether the certified applicator demonstrates the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators. The examination shall conform to the applicable standards for examinations set forth in § 171.103(a)(2) of this part.


(2) *Continuing education programs.* A certified applicator may be found eligible for recertification upon successfully completing a continuing education program pursuant to the certifying authority's EPA-approved certification plan.


(i) The quantity, content, and quality of a continuing education program to maintain applicator certification must be sufficient to ensure the applicator continues to demonstrate the level of competency required by § 171.103 for commercial applicators or § 171.105 for private applicators.


(ii) Any continuing education course or event relied upon for applicator recertification must be approved by the certifying authority as being suitable for its purpose in the certifying authority's recertification process.


(iii) A certifying authority must ensure that any continuing education course or event, including an online or other distance education course or event, relied upon for applicator recertification includes a process to verify the applicator's successful completion of the course or event.




