# § 334.920   Pacific Ocean off the east coast of San Clemente Island, Calif.; naval restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The waters of the Pacific Ocean within an area extending easterly from the east coast of San Clemente Island, California, described as follows: The northerly boundary to be a continuation, to seaward of the existing southerly boundary of the restricted anchorage area, as described in 110.218 of this chapter, to latitude 33°00.3′ N., longitude 118°31.1′ W.; thence to latitude 32°58.6′ N., longitude 118°30.0′ W.; thence to latitude 32°57.9′ N., longitude 118°31.3′ W on the shoreline; thence northerly along the shoreline to the point of beginning.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) No person or vessels, other than Naval Ordnance Test Station craft, and those cleared for entry by the Naval Ordnance Test Station, shall enter the area at any time except in an emergency, proceeding with extreme caution.


(2) Dredging, dragging, seining or other fishing operations within these boundaries are prohibited.


(3) No seaplanes, other than those approved for entry by Naval Ordnance Test Station, may enter the area.


(4) The regulations in this section shall be enforced by security personnel attached to the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, China Lake, California, and by such agencies as may be designated by the Commandant, Eleventh Naval District, San Diego, California.



---

[N] [23 FR 2098, Mar. 29, 1958, as amended at 48 FR 6708, Feb. 15, 1983; 48 FR 8273, Feb. 28, 1983. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17556, Apr. 10, 1997]




