# ยง 1603.106   Computation of time generally and for timely receipt by the Commission.

(a)(1) All time periods in this part that are stated in terms of days are calendar days unless otherwise stated.


(2) The first day counted shall be the day after the event from which the time period begins to run, and the last day of the period shall be included unless it falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which case the period shall be extended to include the next business day.


(3) All time limits in this part are subject to waiver, estoppel, and equitable tolling.


(b) Documents submitted to the Commission are deemed timely received as follows:


(1) A document submitted by digital transmission, by facsimile not exceeding 20 pages, or by personal delivery or commercial delivery service shall be deemed timely if it is received before the expiration of the applicable filing period. A document submitted by digital means shall be deemed received on the date the EEOC's designated digital system records the upload.


(2) A document submitted by mail shall be deemed timely if it is postmarked before the expiration of the applicable filing period or, in the absence of a legible postmark, if it is received within 5 days of the expiration of the applicable filing period.


(c) For the purposes of this part, the terms *file, serve, receive, issue, transmit, send,* and any other word forms of these terms, such as *filing* or *serving,* when used to describe transmission of documents, shall include all forms of digital transmission. 



---

[N] [89 FR 47852, June 4, 2024]






