# ยง 410.1902   Placement Review Panel.

(a) All determinations to place an unaccompanied child in a secure facility that is not a residential treatment center will be reviewed and approved by ORR federal field staff. An unaccompanied child placed in a restrictive placement may request reconsideration of such placement. Upon such request, ORR shall afford the unaccompanied child a hearing before the Placement Review Panel (PRP) at which the unaccompanied child may, with the assistance of counsel at no cost to the Federal Government, present evidence on their own behalf. An unaccompanied child may present witnesses and cross-examine ORR's witnesses, if such child and ORR witnesses are willing to voluntarily testify. An unaccompanied child shall be provided access at the PRP hearing to interpretation services in their native or preferred language, depending on the unaccompanied child's preference, and in a way they effectively understand. An unaccompanied child that does not wish to request a hearing may also have their placement reconsidered by submitting a written request for a reconsideration along with any supporting documents as evidence. Where the unaccompanied child does not have an attorney, ORR shall encourage the care provider facility to seek assistance for the unaccompanied child from a contracted legal service provider or child advocate.


(b) The PRP shall afford any unaccompanied child in a restrictive placement the opportunity to request a PRP review as soon as the unaccompanied child receives a Notice of Placement (NOP). ORR shall permit the unaccompanied child or the unaccompanied child's counsel to review the evidence in support of step-up or continued restrictive placement, and any countervailing or otherwise unfavorable evidence, within a reasonable time before the PRP review is conducted. ORR shall also share the unaccompanied child's complete case file apart from any legally required redactions with their counsel within a reasonable timeframe to be established by ORR to assist in the legal representation of the unaccompanied child.


(c) ORR shall convene the PRP within 7 days of an unaccompanied child's request for a hearing. ORR may institute procedures to request clarification or additional evidence if warranted, or to extend the 7-day deadline as necessary under specified circumstances.


(d) The PRP shall issue a written decision in the child's native or preferred language within 7 days of a hearing and submission of evidence or, if no hearing or review of additional evidence is requested, within 7 days following receipt of an unaccompanied child's written statement. ORR may institute procedures to request clarification or additional evidence if warranted, or to extend the 7-day deadline as necessary under specified circumstances.


(e) An ORR staff member who was involved with the decision to step-up an unaccompanied child to a restrictive placement shall not serve as a PRP member with respect to that unaccompanied child's placement.






