# § 1253.9   New activity and new product submission requirements.

(a) A notice of new activity must provide the following items of information and appropriate supporting documentation. The corresponding paragraph number should be listed with the relevant information provided:


(1) Provide the name of the new activity and a complete and specific description of the new activity that identifies under which paragraph(s) of § 1253.3(a) the activity is described.


(2) Describe the business rationale, the intended market, the business line, and what products are currently being offered or are proposed to be offered under such business line. Also, include a description of any market research performed relating to the new activity.


(3) State the anticipated commencement date for the new activity. Provide analysis, including assumptions, development expenses, any applicable fees, expectations for the impact of and projections for the quarterly size (for example, in terms of cost, personnel, volume of activity, or risk metrics) of the new activity for at least the first 12 months of deployment, as well as the impact of the new activity on the risk profile of the Enterprise and the key controls for the following risks: credit, market, and operational.


(4) If the new activity is a pilot, include the parameters, such as duration, volume of activity, and performance. If the new activity is the result of a pilot, include an analysis on the effectiveness of the pilot that describes the pilot objectives and success criteria; volume of activity; performance; risk metrics and controls; and the modifications made for a broader offering and rationale.


(5) Provide a fair housing and fair lending self-evaluation of the new activity. The self-evaluation should, at a minimum, include data on the predicted impact of the new activity for protected class categories; a summary of reasonable alternatives considered; if disparities are identified, the business justification for the new activity; and the extent to which the activity furthers fair housing and fair lending.


(b) A request for prior approval of a new product must provide the following items of information with appropriate supporting documentation. The corresponding paragraph number should be listed with the relevant information provided:


(1) Provide the information required for a notice of new activity as identified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Describe the business requirements for the new product including technology requirements. Describe the Enterprise business units involved in conducting the new product, including any affiliation or subsidiary relationships, any third-party relationships, and the roles of each. Describe the reporting lines and planned oversight of the new product.


(3) Provide a legal analysis as to whether the new product is—


(i) In the case of Fannie Mae, authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1717(b)(2), (3), (4), or (5) or 12 U.S.C. 1719; or


(ii) In the case of Freddie Mac, authorized under 12 U.S.C. 1454(a)(1), (4), or (5).


(4) Provide copies of all notice and application documents, including any application for patents or trademarks, the Enterprise has submitted to other Federal, State or local government regulators relating to the new product.


(5) Describe the impact of the new product on the public interest and provide information to address the factors listed in § 1253.4(b).


(6) Describe how the new product is consistent with the safety and soundness of the Enterprise or the mortgage finance system.


(7) Explain any accounting treatment proposed for the new product.


(c) FHFA may require an Enterprise to submit such further information as the Director deems necessary to make a determination on a notice of new activity or a request for prior approval of a new product, at the time of the original submission or any time thereafter.


(d) An Enterprise shall certify, through an executive officer, that a notice of new activity or a request for prior approval of a new product and any supporting material submitted to FHFA pursuant to this part contain no material misrepresentations or omissions. FHFA may review and verify any information filed in connection with a notice of new activity or request for prior approval of a new product.






