# § 195.579   What must I do to mitigate internal corrosion?

(a) *General.* If you transport any hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide that would corrode the pipeline, you must investigate the corrosive effect of the hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide on the pipeline and take adequate steps to mitigate internal corrosion. 


(b) *Inhibitors.* If you use corrosion inhibitors to mitigate internal corrosion, you must—


(1) Use inhibitors in sufficient quantity to protect the entire part of the pipeline system that the inhibitors are designed to protect; 


(2) Use coupons or other monitoring equipment to determine the effectiveness of the inhibitors in mitigating internal corrosion; and 


(3) Examine the coupons or other monitoring equipment at least twice each calendar year, but with intervals not exceeding 7
1/2 months. 


(c) *Removing pipe.* Whenever you remove pipe from a pipeline, you must inspect the internal surface of the pipe for evidence of corrosion. If you find internal corrosion requiring corrective action under § 195.585, you must investigate circumferentially and longitudinally beyond the removed pipe (by visual examination, indirect method, or both) to determine whether additional corrosion requiring remedial action exists in the vicinity of the removed pipe. 


(d) *Breakout tanks.* After October 2, 2000, when you install a tank bottom lining in an aboveground breakout tank built to API Spec 12F (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), API Std 620 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), API Std 650 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3), or API Std 650's predecessor, Standard 12C, you must install the lining in accordance with API RP 652 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 195.3). However, you don't need to comply with API RP 652 when installing any tank for which you note in the corrosion control procedures established under § 195.402(c)(3) why compliance with all or certain provisions of API RP 652 is not necessary for the safety of the tank.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-73, 66 FR 67004, Dec. 27, 2001, as amended by Amdt. 195-99, 80 FR 188, Jan. 5, 2015]




