# ยง 1002.4   Responses to Privacy Act requests.

(a) *Acknowledgement.* The Privacy Act Officer shall provide you with a written acknowledgment of your written request under section 3 within ten business days of our receipt of your request.


(b) *Grants of requests.* If you make your request in person, the Privacy Act Officer shall respond to your request directly, either by granting you access to the requested records, upon payment of any applicable fee and with a written record of the grant of your request and receipt of the records, or by informing you when a response may be expected. If you are accompanied by another person, you must authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the third person. If your request is in writing, the Privacy Act Officer shall provide you with written notice of the Board's decision to grant your request and the amount of any applicable fee. The Privacy Act Officer shall disclose the records to you promptly, upon payment of any applicable fee.


(c) *Denials of requests in whole or in part.* The Privacy Act Officer shall notify you in writing of his or her determination to deny, in whole or in part, your request. This writing shall include the following information:


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(2) A brief statement of the reason for the denial(s), including any applicable Privacy Act exemption;


(3) A statement that you may appeal the denial and a brief description of the requirements for appeal under ยง 1002.5.


(d) *Request for records not covered by the Privacy Act or subject to Privacy Act exemption.* If the Privacy Act Officer determines that a requested record is not subject to the Privacy Act or the records are subject to Privacy Act exemption, your request will be processed in accordance with the Board's Freedom of Information Act procedures at 6 CFR part 1001.




