# ยง 721.160   Notification requirements for new chemical substances subject to section 5(e) orders.

(a) *Selection of substances.* (1) In accordance with the expedited process specified in this section, EPA will issue significant new use notification requirements and other specific requirements for each new chemical substance that is the subject of a final order issued under section 5(e) of the Act, except for an order that prohibits manufacture of the substance, unless EPA determines that significant new use notification requirements are not needed for the substance. 


(2) If EPA determines that significant new use notification requirements are not needed for a substance that is subject to a final order issued under section 5(e) of the Act, except for an order that prohibits manufacture of the substance, EPA will issue a notice in the _Federal Register_ explaining why the significant new use requirements are not needed. 


(b) *Designation of requirements.* (1) The significant new use notification and other specific requirements will be based on and be consistent with the provisions included in the final order issued for the substance under section 5(e) of the Act. EPA may also designate additional activities as significant new uses which will be subject to notification. Designation of additional activities as significant new uses will be done in accordance with the criteria and procedures under ยง 721.170, or through a separate rulemaking proceeding. 


(2) Significant new use requirements and other specific requirements designated under this section will be listed in subpart E of this part. For each substance, subpart E will identify: 


(i) The chemical name. 


(ii) The activities designated as significant new uses. 


(iii) Other specific requirements applicable to the substance, including recordkeeping requirements or any other requirements included in the final section 5(e) order. 


(c) *Procedures for issuing significant new use rules.* (1) EPA will issue significant new use rules under this section by one of the following three processes: direct final rulemaking, interim final rulemaking, or notice and comment rulemaking. EPA will use the direct final rulemaking process to issue significant new use rules unless it determines that, in a particular case, one of the other processes is more appropriate. 


(2) _Federal Register_ documents issued to propose or establish significant new uses under this section will contain the following: 


(i) The chemical identity of the substance or, if its specific identity is claimed confidential, an appropriate generic chemical name and an accession number assigned by EPA. 


(ii) The premanufacture notice number. 


(iii) The CAS number, where available and not claimed confidential. 


(iv) A summary of EPA's findings under section 5(e)(1)(A) of the Act for the final order issued under section 5(e).


(v) Designation of the significant new uses subject to, or proposed to be subject to, notification and any other applicable requirements. 


(vi) Any modifications of subpart A of this part applicable to the specific substance and significant new uses. 


(vii) If the _Federal Register_ document establishes a final rule, or notifies the public that a final rule will not be issued after public comment has been received, the document will describe comments received and EPA's response. 


(3) *Direct final rulemaking.* (i) When EPA uses the direct final rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, it will issue a final rule in the _Federal Register_ following its decision to develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical substance. 


(ii) The _Federal Register_ document will state that, unless written notice is received by EPA within 30 days of publication that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the rule will be effective 60 days from the date of publication. The written notice of intent to submit adverse or critical comments should state which SNUR(s) will be the subject of the adverse or critical comments, if several SNURs are established through the direct final rule. If notice is received within 30 days that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments, the section(s) of the direct final rule containing the SNUR(s) for which a notice of intent to comment was received will be withdrawn by EPA issuing a document in the final rule section of the _Federal Register,_ and a proposal will be published in the proposed rule section of the _Federal Register._ The proposal will establish a 30-day comment period. 


(iii) If EPA, having considered any timely comments submitted in response to the proposal, decides to establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject to notification. 


(4) *Notice and comment rulemaking.* (i) When EPA uses a notice and comment procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue a proposal in the _Federal Register_ following its decision to develop a significant new use rule under this section for a specific new chemical substance. Persons will be given 30 days to comment on whether EPA should establish notification requirements for the substance under this part. 


(ii) If EPA, having considered any timely comments, decides to establish notification requirements under this section, EPA will issue a final rule adding the substance to subpart E of this part and designating the significant new uses subject to notification. 


(5) *Interim final rulemaking.* (i) When EPA uses the interim final rulemaking procedure to issue a significant new use rule, EPA will issue an interim final rule in the final rule section of the _Federal Register_ following its decision to develop a significant new use rule for a specific new chemical substance. The document will state EPA's reasons for using the interim final rulemaking procedure. 


(A) The significant new use rule will take effect on the date of publication. 


(B) Persons will be given 30 days from the date of publication to submit comments. 


(ii) Interim final rules issued under this section shall cease to be in effect 180 days after publication unless, within the 180-day period, EPA issues a final rule in the _Federal Register_ responding to any written comments received during the 30-day comment period specified in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section and promulgating final significant new use notification requirements and other requirements for the substance. 


(d) *Schedule for issuing significant new use rules.* (1) Unless EPA determines that a significant new use rule should not be issued under this section, EPA will issue a proposed rule, a direct final rule, or an interim final rule within 180 days of receipt of a valid notice of commencement under ยง 720.102 of this chapter for any substance for which the notice of commencement was received on or after October 10, 1989. 


(2) Unless EPA determines that a significant new use rule should not be issued under this section, EPA will issue a proposed rule, a direct final rule, or an interim final rule within 1 year of October 10, 1989, for any substance for which the valid notice of commencement under ยง 720.102 of this chapter was received before October 10, 1989. 


(3) If EPA receives adverse or critical significant comments following publication of a proposed or interim final rule, EPA will either withdraw the rule or issue a final rule addressing the comments received. 







---

[N] [54 FR 31314, July 27, 1989, as amended at 87 FR 39769, July 5, 2022]






