# § 1.367(b)-5   Distributions of stock described in section 355.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Scope.* This section provides rules relating to a distribution described in section 355 (or so much of section 356 as relates to section 355) and to which section 367(b) applies. For purposes of this section, the terms *distributing corporation, controlled corporation,* and *distributee* have the same meaning as used in section 355 and the regulations thereunder. 


(2) *Treatment of distributees as exchanging shareholders.* For purposes of the section 367(b) regulations, all distributees in a transaction described in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section shall be treated as exchanging shareholders that realize income in a section 367(b) exchange. 


(b) *Distribution by a domestic corporation*—(1) *General rule.* In a distribution described in section 355, if the distributing corporation is a domestic corporation and the controlled corporation is a foreign corporation, the following general rules shall apply— 


(i) If the distributee is a corporation, then the controlled corporation shall be considered to be a corporation; and 


(ii) If the distributee is an individual, then, solely for purposes of determining the gain recognized by the distributing corporation, the controlled corporation shall not be considered to be a corporation, and the distributing corporation shall recognize any gain (but not loss) realized on the distribution. 


(2) *Section 367(e) transactions.* The rules of paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall not apply to a foreign distributee to the extent gain is recognized under section 367(e)(1) and the regulations thereunder. 


(3) *Determining whether distributees are individuals.* All distributees in a distribution described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are presumed to be individuals. However, the shareholder identification principles of § 1.367(e)-1(d) (including the reporting procedures in § 1.367(e)-1(d)(2) and (3)) shall apply for purposes of rebutting this presumption. 


(4) *Applicable cross-references.* For rules with respect to a distributee that is a partnership, trust or estate, see § 1.367(b)-2(k). For additional rules relating to a distribution of stock of a foreign corporation by a domestic corporation, see section 1248(f) and the regulations thereunder. For additional rules relating to a distribution described in section 355 by a domestic corporation to a foreign distributee, see section 367(e)(1) and the regulations thereunder. 


(c) *Pro rata distribution by a controlled foreign corporation*—(1) *Scope.* This paragraph (c) applies to a distribution described in section 355 in which the distributing corporation is a controlled foreign corporation and in which the stock of the controlled corporation is distributed pro rata to each of the distributing corporation's shareholders. 


(2) *Adjustment to basis in stock and income inclusion.* If the distributee's postdistribution amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to the distributing or controlled corporation is less than the distributee's predistribution amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) with respect to such corporation, then the distributee's basis in such stock immediately after the distribution (determined under the normal principles of section 358) shall be reduced by the amount of the difference. However, the distributee's basis in such stock shall not be reduced below zero, and to the extent the foregoing reduction would have reduced basis below zero, the distributee shall instead include such amount in income as a deemed dividend from such corporation. 


(3) *Interaction with § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3)(ii).* The basis increase provided in § 1.367(b)-2(e)(3)(ii) shall not apply to a deemed dividend that is included in income pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(4) *Basis redistribution.* If a distributee reduces the basis in the stock of the distributing or controlled corporation (or has an inclusion with respect to such stock) under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the distributee shall increase its basis in the stock of the other corporation by the amount of the basis decrease (or deemed dividend inclusion) required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section. However, the distributee's basis in such stock shall not be increased above the fair market value of such stock and shall not be increased to the extent the increase diminishes the distributee's postdistribution amount with respect to such corporation. 


(d) *Non-pro rata distribution by a controlled foreign corporation*—(1) *Scope.* This paragraph (d) applies to a distribution described in section 355 in which the distributing corporation is a controlled foreign corporation and in which the stock of the controlled corporation is not distributed pro rata to each of the distributing corporation's shareholders. 


(2) *Treatment of certain shareholders as distributees.* For purposes of the section 367(b) regulations, all persons owning stock of the distributing corporation immediately after a transaction described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be treated as distributees of such stock. For other applicable rules, see paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(3) *Inclusion of excess section 1248 amount by exchanging shareholder.* If the distributee's postdistribution amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) with respect to the distributing or controlled corporation is less than the distributee's predistribution amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) with respect to such corporation, then the distributee shall include in income as a deemed dividend the amount of the difference. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3), if a distributee owns no stock in the distributing or controlled corporation immediately after the distribution, the distributee's postdistribution amount with respect to such corporation shall be zero. 


(4) *Interaction with § 1.367(b)—2(e)(3)(ii)*—(i) *Limited application.* The basis increase provided in § 1.367(b)—2(e)(3)(ii) shall apply to a deemed dividend that is included in income pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section only to the extent that such basis increase does not increase the distributee's basis above the fair market value of such stock and does not diminish the distributee's postdistribution amount with respect to such corporation. 


(ii) *Interaction with predistribution amount.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), the distributee's predistribution amount (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section) shall be determined without regard to any basis increase permitted under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section. 


(e) *Definitions*—(1) *Predistribution amount.* For purposes of this section, the predistribution amount with respect to a distributing or controlled corporation is the distributee's section 1248 amount (as defined in § 1.367(b)—2(c)(1)) computed immediately before the distribution (and after any section 368(a)(1)(D) transfer connected with the section 355 distribution), but only to the extent that such amount is attributable to the distributing corporation and any corporations controlled by it immediately before the distribution (the distributing group) or the controlled corporation and any corporations controlled by it immediately before the distribution (the controlled group), as the case may be, under the principles of §§ 1.1248-1(d)(3), 1.1248-2 and 1.1248-3. However, the predistribution amount with regard to the distributing group shall be computed without taking into account the distributee's predistribution amount with respect to the controlled group. 


(2) *Postdistribution amount.* For purposes of this section, the postdistribution amount with respect to a distributing or controlled corporation is the distributee's section 1248 amount (as defined in § 1.367(b)-2(c)(1)) with respect to such stock, computed immediately after the distribution (but without regard to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section (whichever is applicable)). The postdistribution amount under this paragraph (e)(2) shall be computed before taking into account the effect (if any) of any inclusion under section 356(a) or (b). 


(f) *Exclusion of deemed dividend from foreign personal holding company income.* In the event an amount is included in income as a deemed dividend by a foreign corporation under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section (including amounts received as an intermediate owner under the rule of § 1.367(b)-2(e)(2)), such deemed dividend shall not be included as foreign personal holding company income under section 954(c). 


(g) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section:



---

[N] [T.D. 8862, 65 FR 3606, Jan. 24, 2000; 65 FR 66502, Nov. 6, 2000]




