# § 575.502   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Agency* means an “Executive agency,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105.


*Authorized agency official* means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.


*Employee* means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*Involuntarily reassigned* refers to a reassignment initiated by an agency against an employee's will and without he employee's consent for reasons other than cause on charges of misconduct, delinquency, or inefficiency.


*Involuntarily separated* refers to a separation initiated by an agency against an employee's will and without the employee's consent for reasons other than cause on charges of misconduct, delinquency, or inefficiency. In addition, when an employee is separated because he or she declines to accept reassignment to another geographic area outside one of the covered locations, the separation is involuntary if the employee's position description or other written agreement does not provide for such reassignment. However, an employee's separation is not involuntary if, after such a written mobility agreement is added, the employee accepts one reassignment outside his or her particular territory, possession, or commonwealth, but subsequently declines another reassignment. An employee's separation as a result of disability retirement, a disability that prevents an employee from continuing Federal service or is the basis for separation by the agency as determined by acceptable medical evidence, or the death of an employee is considered to be an involuntary separation.


*Rate of basic pay* means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C; locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F; or similar payment under other legal authority, but before deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind. For example, a *rate of basic pay* may not include nonforeign area cost-of-living allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5941, night shift differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f), or environmental differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5343(c)(4).


*Service agreement* means a written agreement between an agency and an employee under which the employee agrees to a specified period of employment with the agency in a particular territory, possession, or commonwealth in return for payment of an extended assignment incentive.


*Service period* means an agreed-upon period of employment an employee is obligated to complete under a service agreement.


*Territory, possession, or commonwealth* means a territory or a possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.



---

[N] [68 FR 53669, Sept. 12, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 25752, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67841, Dec. 3, 2007]




