# § 141.405   Reporting and recordkeeping for ground water systems.

(a) *Reporting.* In addition to the requirements of § 141.31, a ground water system regulated under this subpart must provide the following information to the State:


(1) A ground water system conducting compliance monitoring under § 141.403(b) must notify the State any time the system fails to meet any State-specified requirements including, but not limited to, minimum residual disinfectant concentration, membrane operating criteria or membrane integrity, and alternative treatment operating criteria, if operation in accordance with the criteria or requirements is not restored within four hours. The ground water system must notify the State as soon as possible, but in no case later than the end of the next business day.


(2) After completing any corrective action under § 141.403(a), a ground water system must notify the State within 30 days of completion of the corrective action.


(3) If a ground water system subject to the requirements of § 141.402(a) does not conduct source water monitoring under § 141.402(a)(5)(ii), the system must provide documentation to the State within 30 days of the total coliform positive sample that it met the State criteria.


(b) *Recordkeeping.* In addition to the requirements of § 141.33, a ground water system regulated under this subpart must maintain the following information in its records:


(1) Documentation of corrective actions. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than ten years.


(2) Documentation of notice to the public as required under § 141.403(a)(7). Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than three years.


(3) Records of decisions under § 141.402(a)(5)(ii) and records of invalidation of fecal indicator-positive ground water source samples under § 141.402(d). Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.


(4) For consecutive systems, documentation of notification to the wholesale system(s) of total coliform-positive samples that are not invalidated under § 141.21(c) until March 31, 2016, or under § 141.853 beginning April 1, 2016. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.


(5) For systems, including wholesale systems, that are required to perform compliance monitoring under § 141.403(b):


(i) Records of the State-specified minimum disinfectant residual. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than ten years.


(ii) Records of the lowest daily residual disinfectant concentration and records of the date and duration of any failure to maintain the State-prescribed minimum residual disinfectant concentration for a period of more than four hours. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.


(iii) Records of State-specified compliance requirements for membrane filtration and of parameters specified by the State for State-approved alternative treatment and records of the date and duration of any failure to meet the membrane operating, membrane integrity, or alternative treatment operating requirements for more than four hours. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.



---

[N] [71 FR 65653, Nov. 8, 2006, as amended at 78 FR 10353, Feb. 13, 2013]




