# ยง 210.33   Failure to make or cooperate in discovery; sanctions.

(a) *Motion for order compelling discovery.* A party may apply to the administrative law judge for an order compelling discovery upon reasonable notice to other parties and all persons affected thereby. 




(b) *Non-monetary sanctions for failure to comply with an order compelling discovery.* The administrative law judge may issue, based on a party's motion or *sua sponte,* non-monetary sanctions for failure to comply with an order compelling discovery. Such failure to comply may include failure of a party, or an officer or corporate representative of a party, to comply with an oral or written order including, but not limited to, an order for the taking of a deposition or the production of documents, an order to answer interrogatories, an order issued pursuant to a request for admissions, or an order to comply with a subpoena. Any such sanction may be ordered in the course of the investigation or concurrently with the administrative law judge's final initial determination on violation. The administrative law judge may take such action in regard to a failure to comply with an order compelling discovery as is just, including, but not limited to the following:


(1) Infer that the admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have been adverse to the party; 


(2) Rule that for the purposes of the investigation the matter or matters concerning the order or subpoena issued be taken as established adversely to the party; 




(3) Rule that the party may not introduce into evidence or otherwise rely upon testimony by the party, officer, or corporate representative, or documents, or other material in support of the party's position in the investigation;


(4) Rule that the party may not be heard to object to introduction and use of secondary evidence to show what the withheld admission, testimony, documents, or other evidence would have shown; 


(5) Rule that a motion or other submission by the party concerning the order or subpoena issued be stricken or rule by initial determination that a determination in the investigation be rendered against the party, or both; or 




(6) Order any other non-monetary sanction available under Rule 37(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(c) *Monetary sanctions for failure to make or cooperate in discovery.* (1) If a party or an officer, director, or managing agent of the party or person designated to testify on behalf of a party fails to obey an order to provide or permit discovery, the administrative law judge or the Commission may make such orders in regard to the failure as are just. In lieu of or in addition to taking action listed in paragraph (b) of this section and to the extent provided in Rule 37(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the administrative law judge or the Commission, upon motion or sua sponte under ยง 210.25, may require the party failing to obey the order or the attorney advising that party or both to pay reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, caused by the failure, unless the administrative law judge or the Commission finds that the failure was substantially justified or that other circumstances make an award of expenses unjust. Monetary sanctions shall not be imposed under this section against the United States, the Commission, or a Commission investigative attorney. 


(2) Monetary sanctions may be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for expenses incurred by a Commission investigative attorney or the Commission's Office of Unfair Import Investigations. Monetary sanctions will not be imposed under this section to reimburse the Commission for attorney's fees. 





---

[N] [59 FR 39039, Aug. 1, 1994, as amended at 90 FR 244, Jan. 3, 2025]




