# § 15.2   Definitions.

(a) The following definitions apply to this part.


*Agency record* means any documentary material that is either created or obtained by an agency in the transaction of agency business and is under agency control. “Agency record” does not include records that are not already in existence and which would have to be created specifically to meet a request.


*Business information* means commercial or financial information provided to HUD by a submitter that arguably is protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 (42 U.S.C. 552(b)(4)) of the FOIA.


*FOIA* means the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).


*HUD* means the Department of Housing and Urban Development.


*Review* means the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure (for example, doing all that is necessary to redact it and prepare it for disclosure). Review costs are recoverable even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time includes time spent considering any formal objection to disclosure, made by a business submitter under § 15.108, but does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.


*Search* means the process of looking for and retrieving records or information responsive to a request. It includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and also includes reasonable efforts to locate and retrieve information from records maintained in electronic form or format.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.


*Submitter* means any person or entity that provides business information, directly or indirectly, to HUD. The term includes, but is not limited to, corporations, State governments, and foreign governments.


(b) The following definitions apply to subparts C and D of this part.


*Appropriate Associate General Counsel* means the Associate General Counsel for Litigation or the Associate General Counsel for HUD Headquarters employees in those programs for which the Associate General Counsel provides legal advice.


*Appropriate Regional Counsel* means the Regional Counsel for the regional office having delegated authority over the project or activity with respect to which the information is sought. For assistance in identifying the Appropriate Regional Counsel, see appendix A to this part.


*Authorized Approving Official* means the Secretary, General Counsel, Appropriate Associate General Counsel, or Appropriate Regional Counsel.


*Demand* means a subpoena, order, or other demand of a court or other authority that is issued in a legal proceeding and any accompanying submissions.


*Employee of the Department* means a current or former officer or employee of the United States appointed by or subject to the supervision of the Secretary, but does not include an officer or employee covered by part 2004 of this title.


*Good cause* means necessary to prevent a miscarriage of justice or to promote a significant interest of the Department.


*Legal proceeding* includes any proceeding before a court of law or other authority; *e.g.,* an administrative board or commission, a hearing officer, an arbitrator, or other body conducting a quasi-judicial or legislative proceeding.


*Legal proceeding among private litigants* means any legal proceeding in which the United States is not a party.


*Legal proceeding in which the United States is a party* means any legal proceeding including as a named party the United States, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, any other Federal executive or administrative agency or department, or any official thereof in his official capacity.


*Material* means either documents or information contained in, or relating to contents of, the files of the Department, or documents or information acquired by any person, while such person was an employee of the Department, as a part of the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status.


*Production* means to produce material by any means other than through the provision of oral testimony.


*Testimony* means any oral or written statements made in litigation under oath or penalty of perjury.


*United States* means the Federal Government of the United States (including the Department), the Secretary, and any employees of the Department in their official capacities.




