# § 1926.1407   Power line safety (up to 350 kV)—assembly and disassembly.

(a) Before assembling or disassembling equipment, the employer must determine if any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories) could get, in the direction or area of assembly/disassembly, closer than 20 feet to a power line during the assembly/disassembly process. If so, the employer must meet the requirements in Option (1), Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, as follows:


(1) *Option (1)—Deenergize and ground.* Confirm from the utility owner/operator that the power line has been deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.


(2) *Option (2)*—*20 foot clearance.* Ensure that no part of the equipment, load line or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer than 20 feet to the power line by implementing the measures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *Option (3)*—*Table A clearance.* (i) Determine the line's voltage and the minimum clearance distance permitted under Table A (*see* § 1926.1408).


(ii) Determine if any part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), could get closer than the minimum clearance distance to the power line permitted under Table A (*see* § 1926.1408). If so, then the employer must follow the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section to ensure that no part of the equipment, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), gets closer to the line than the minimum clearance distance.


(b) *Preventing encroachment/electrocution.* Where encroachment precautions are required under Option (2), or Option (3) of this section, all of the following requirements must be met:


(1) Conduct a planning meeting with the Assembly/Disassembly director (A/D director), operator, assembly/disassembly crew and the other workers who will be in the assembly/disassembly area to review the location of the power line(s) and the steps that will be implemented to prevent encroachment/electrocution.


(2) If tag lines are used, they must be nonconductive.


(3) At least one of the following additional measures must be in place. The measure selected from this list must be effective in preventing encroachment.


The additional measures are:


(i) Use a dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the equipment operator. The dedicated spotter must:


(A) Be equipped with a visual aid to assist in identifying the minimum clearance distance. Examples of a visual aid include, but are not limited to: A clearly visible line painted on the ground; a clearly visible line of stanchions; a set of clearly visible line-of-sight landmarks (such as a fence post behind the dedicated spotter and a building corner ahead of the dedicated spotter).


(B) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.


(C) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.


(D) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.


(ii) A proximity alarm set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.


(iii) A device that automatically warns the operator when to stop movement, such as a range control warning device. Such a device must be set to give the operator sufficient warning to prevent encroachment.


(iv) A device that automatically limits range of movement, set to prevent encroachment.


(v) An elevated warning line, barricade, or line of signs, in view of the operator, equipped with flags or similar high-visibility markings.


(c) *Assembly/disassembly below power lines prohibited.* No part of a crane/derrick, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), whether partially or fully assembled, is allowed below a power line unless the employer has confirmed that the utility owner/operator has deenergized and (at the worksite) visibly grounded the power line.


(d) *Assembly/disassembly inside Table A clearance prohibited.* No part of a crane/derrick, load line, or load (including rigging and lifting accessories), whether partially or fully assembled, is allowed closer than the minimum approach distance under Table A (*see* § 1926.1408) to a power line unless the employer has confirmed that the utility owner/operator has deenergized and (at the worksite) visibly grounded the power line.


(e) *Voltage information.* Where Option (3) of this section is used, the utility owner/operator of the power lines must provide the requested voltage information within two working days of the employer's request.


(f) *Power lines presumed energized.* The employer must assume that all power lines are energized unless the utility owner/operator confirms that the power line has been and continues to be deenergized and visibly grounded at the worksite.


(g) *Posting of electrocution warnings.* There must be at least one electrocution hazard warning conspicuously posted in the cab so that it is in view of the operator and (except for overhead gantry and tower cranes) at least two on the outside of the equipment.




