# § 578.99   Applicability of other Federal requirements.

In addition to the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, use of assistance provided under this part must comply with the following federal requirements:


(a) *Environmental review.* Activities under this part are subject to environmental review by HUD under 24 CFR part 50 as noted in § 578.31.


(b) *Section 6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act.* State agencies and agencies of a political subdivision of a state that are using assistance under this part for procurement, and any person contracting with such an agency with respect to work performed under an assisted contract, must comply with the requirements of Section 6003 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. In accordance with Section 6002, these agencies and persons must:


(1) Procure items designated in guidelines of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR part 247 that contain the highest percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a satisfactory level of competition, where the purchase price of the item exceeds $10,000 or the value of the quantity acquired in the preceding fiscal year exceeded $10,000;


(2) Procure solid waste management services in a manner that maximizes energy and resource recovery; and


(3) Must have established an affirmative procurement program for the procurement of recovered materials identified in the EPA guidelines.


(c) *Transparency Act Reporting.* Section 872 of the Duncan Hunter Defense Appropriations Act of 2009, and additional requirements published by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), requires recipients to report subawards made either as pass-through awards, subrecipient awards, or vendor awards in the Federal Government Web site *www.fsrs.gov* or its successor system. The reporting of award and subaward information is in accordance with the requirements of the Federal Financial Assistance Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, as amended by section 6202 of Public Law 110-252 and in OMB Policy Guidance issued to the federal agencies on September 14, 2010 (75 FR 55669).


(d) *The Coastal Barrier Resources Act of 1982* (16 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.*) may apply to proposals under this part, depending on the assistance requested.


(e) *Applicability of uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for Federal awards.* The requirements of 2 CFR part 200 apply to recipients and subrecipients, except where inconsistent with the provisions of the McKinney-Vento Act or this part.


(f) *Lead-based paint.* The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 35, subparts A, B, H, J, K, M, and R apply to activities under this program.


(g) *Audit.* Recipients and subrecipients must comply with the audit requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.


(h) *Davis-Bacon Act.* The provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act do not apply to this program.


(i) *Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act.* Recipients and subrecipients must, as applicable, comply with Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 and its implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 75, as applicable.


(j) *Protections for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking*—(1) *General.* The requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), implementing the requirements of VAWA apply to all permanent housing and transitional housing for which Continuum of Care program funds are used for acquisition, rehabilitation, new construction, leasing, rental assistance, or operating costs. The requirements also apply where funds are used for homelessness prevention, but only where the funds are used to provide short- and/or medium-term rental assistance. Safe havens are subject only to the requirements in paragraph (j)(9) of this section.


(2) *Definition of covered housing provider.* For the Continuum of Care program, “covered housing provider,” as such term is used in HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 5, subpart L refers to:


(i) The owner or landlord, which may be the recipient or subrecipient, for purposes of 24 CFR 5.2005(d)(1) and 5.2009(a);


(ii) The recipient, subrecipient, and owner or landlord for purposes of 24 CFR 5.2005(d)(2) through (d)(4); and


(iii) The recipient, subrecipient, and owner or landlord for purposes of 24 CFR 5.2007. However, the recipient or subrecipient may limit documentation requests under § 5.2007 to only the recipient or subrecipient, provided that:


(A) This limitation is made clear in both the notice described under 24 CFR 5.2005(a)(1) and the rental assistance agreement;


(B) The entity designated to receive documentation requests determines whether the program participant is entitled to protection under VAWA and immediately advise the program participant of the determination; and


(C) If the program participant is entitled to protection, the entity designated to receive documentation requests must notify the owner in writing that the program participant is entitled to protection under VAWA and work with the owner on the program participant's behalf. Any further sharing or disclosure of the program participant's information will be subject to the requirements in 24 CFR 5.2007.


(3) *Effective date.* The core statutory protections of VAWA that prohibit denial or termination of assistance or eviction solely because an applicant or tenant is a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, applied upon enactment of VAWA 2013 on March 7, 2013. Compliance with the VAWA regulatory requirements under this section and at 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, is required for grants awarded pursuant to NOFAs published on or after December 16, 2016.


(4) *Notification requirements.* (i) The recipient or subrecipient must provide each individual or family applying for permanent housing and transitional housing and each program participant the notice and the certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005 at each of the following times:


(A) When an individual or family is denied permanent housing or transitional housing;


(B) When a program participant is admitted to permanent housing or transitional housing;


(C) When a program participant receives notification of eviction; and


(D) When a program participant is notified of termination of assistance.


(ii) When grant funds are used for rental assistance, the recipient or subrecipient must ensure that the owner or manager of the housing provides the notice and certification form described in 24 CFR 5.2005(a) to the program participant with any notification of eviction. This commitment and the confidentiality requirements under 24 CFR 5.2007(c) must be set forth in a contract with the owner or landlord.


(5) *Contract, lease, and occupancy agreement provisions.* (i) Recipients and subrecipients must include in any contracts and leases between the recipient or subrecipient, and an owner or landlord of the housing:


(A) The requirement to comply with 24 CFR part 5, subpart L; and


(B) Where the owner or landlord of the housing will have a lease with a program participant, the requirement to include a lease provision that include all requirements that apply to tenants, the owner or the lease under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, as supplemented by this part, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.2005(b) and (c).


(ii) The recipient or subrecipient must include in any lease, sublease, and occupancy agreement with the program participant a provision that include all requirements that apply to tenants, the owner or the lease under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, as supplemented by this part, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.2005(b) and (c). The lease, sublease, and occupancy agreement may specify that the protections under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, apply only during the period of assistance under the Continuum of Care Program. The period of assistance for housing where grant funds were used for acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation is 15 years from the date of initial occupancy or date of initial service provision.


(iii) Except for tenant-based rental assistance, recipients and subrecipients must require that any lease, sublease, or occupancy agreement with a program participant permits the program participant to terminate the lease, sublease, or occupancy agreement without penalty if the recipient or subrecipient determines that the program participant qualifies for an emergency transfer under the emergency transfer plan established under paragraph (j)(8) of this section.


(iv) For tenant-based rental assistance, the recipient or subrecipient must enter into a contract with the owner or landlord of the housing that:


(A) Requires the owner or landlord of the housing to comply with the provisions of 24 CFR part 5, subpart L; and


(B) Requires the owner or landlord of the housing to include a lease provision that include all requirements that apply to tenants, the owner or the lease under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, as supplemented by this part, including the prohibited bases for eviction and restrictions on construing lease terms under 24 CFR 5.005(b) and (c). The lease may specify that the protections under 24 CFR part 5, subpart L, only apply while the program participant receives tenant-based rental assistance under the Continuum of Care Program.


(6) *Transition.* (i) The recipient or subrecipient must ensure that the requirements set forth in paragraph (j)(5) of this section apply to any contracts, leases, subleases, or occupancy agreements entered into, or renewed, following the expiration of an existing term, on or after the effective date in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. This obligation includes any contracts, leases, subleases, and occupancy agreements that will automatically renew on or after the effective date in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.


(ii) For leases for tenant-based rental assistance existing prior to the effective date in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, recipients and subrecipients must enter into a contract under paragraph (j)(6)(iv) of this section before the next renewal of the lease.


(7) *Bifurcation.* For the purposes of this part, the following requirements shall apply in place of the requirements at 24 CFR 5.2009(b):


(i) If a family who is receiving tenant-based rental assistance under this part separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the family's tenant-based rental assistance and any utility assistance shall continue for the family member(s) who are not evicted or removed.


(ii) If a family living in permanent supportive housing separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), and the family's eligibility for the housing was based on the evicted individual's disability or chronically homeless status, the remaining tenants may stay in the project as provided under § 578.75(i)(2). Otherwise, if a family living in a project funded under this part separates under 24 CFR 5.2009(a), the remaining tenant(s) will be eligible to remain in the project.


(8) *Emergency transfer plan.* The Continuum of Care must develop an emergency transfer plan for the Continuum of Care, and recipients and subrecipients in the Continuum of Care must follow that plan. The plan must comply with 24 CFR 5.2005(e) and include the following program requirements:


(i) For families receiving tenant-based rental assistance, the plan must specify what will happen with respect to the non-transferring family member(s), if the family separates in order to effect an emergency transfer.


(ii) For families living in units that are otherwise assisted under this part (assisted units), the required policies must provide that for program participants who qualify for an emergency transfer but a safe unit is not immediately available for an internal emergency transfer, the individual or family shall have priority over all other applicants for rental assistance, transitional housing, and permanent supportive housing projects funded under this part, provided that: The individual or family meets all eligibility criteria required by Federal law or regulation or HUD NOFA; and the individual or family meets any additional criteria or preferences established in accordance with § 578.93(b)(1), (4), (6), or (7). The individual or family shall not be required to meet any other eligibility criteria or preferences for the project. The individual or family shall retain their original homeless or chronically homeless status for the purposes of the transfer.


(9) *Protections with respect to safe havens.* The following requirements apply to safe havens funded under this part:


(i) No individual may be denied admission to or removed from the safe haven on the basis or as a direct result of the fact that the individual is or has been a victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the individual otherwise qualifies for admission or occupancy.


(iii) The terms “affiliated individual,” “dating violence,” “domestic violence,” “sexual assault,” and “stalking” are defined in 24 CFR 5.2003.



---

[N] [77 FR 45442, July 31, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 75940, Dec. 7, 2015; 81 FR 80810, Nov. 16, 2016; 81 FR 87812, Dec. 6, 2016; 85 FR 61568, Sept. 29, 2020]






