# ยง 763.92   Training and periodic surveillance.

(a) *Training.* (1) The local education agency shall ensure, prior to the implementation of the O&M provisions of the management plan, that all members of its maintenance and custodial staff (custodians, electricians, heating/air conditioning engineers, plumbers, etc.) who may work in a building that contains ACBM receive awareness training of at least 2 hours, whether or not they are required to work with ACBM. New custodial and maintenance employees shall be trained within 60 days after commencement of employment. Training shall include, but not be limited to: 


(i) Information regarding asbestos and its various uses and forms. 


(ii) Information on the health effects associated with asbestos exposure. 


(iii) Locations of ACBM identified throughout each school building in which they work. 


(iv) Recognition of damage, deterioration, and delamination of ACBM. 


(v) Name and telephone number of the person designated to carry out general local education agency responsibilities under ยง 763.84 and the availability and location of the management plan. 


(2) The local education agency shall ensure that all members of its maintenance and custodial staff who conduct any activities that will result in the disturbance of ACBM shall receive training described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and 14 hours of additional training. Additional training shall include, but not be limited to: 


(i) Descriptions of the proper methods of handling ACBM. 


(ii) Information on the use of respiratory protection as contained in the EPA/NIOSH *Guide to Respiratory Protection for the Asbestos Abatement Industry,* September 1986 (EPA 560/OPPTS-86-001), available from the Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room E-543B, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (202) 554-1404, TDD: (202) 544-0551 and other personal protection measures.


(iii) The provisions of this section and ยง 763.91, appendices A, C, and D of this subpart E of this part, EPA regulations contained in 40 CFR part 763, subpart G, and in 40 CFR part 61, subpart M, and OSHA regulations contained in 29 CFR 1926.58. 


(iv) Hands-on training in the use of respiratory protection, other personal protection measures, and good work practices. 


(3) Local education agency maintenance and custodial staff who have attended EPA-approved asbestos training or received equivalent training for O&M and periodic surveillance activities involving asbestos shall be considered trained for the purposes of this section. 


(b) *Periodic surveillance.* (1) At least once every 6 months after a management plan is in effect, each local education agency shall conduct periodic surveillance in each building that it leases, owns, or otherwise uses as a school building that contains ACBM or is assumed to contain ACBM. 


(2) Each person performing periodic surveillance shall: 


(i) Visually inspect all areas that are identified in the management plan as ACBM or assumed ACBM. 


(ii) Record the date of the surveillance, his or her name, and any changes in the condition of the materials. 


(iii) Submit to the person designated to carry out general local education agency responsibilities under ยง 763.84 a copy of such record for inclusion in the management plan.



---

[N] [52 FR 41846, Oct. 30, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 34465, July 3, 1995; 65 FR 69216, Nov. 15, 2000]




