# § 422.6   Cost-sharing in enrollment-related costs.

(a) *Basis and scope.* This section implements that portion of section 1857 of the Act that pertains to cost-sharing in enrollment-related costs. It sets forth the procedures that CMS follows to determine the aggregate annual “user fee” to be contributed by MA organizations and PDP sponsors under Medicare Part D and to assess the required user fees for each MA plan offered by MA organizations and PDP sponsors.


(b) *Purpose of assessment.* Section 1857(e)(2) of the Act authorizes CMS to charge and collect from each MA plan offered by an MA organization its pro rata share of fees for administering section 1851 of the Act (relating to dissemination of enrollment information), and section 4360 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (relating to the health insurance counseling and assistance program) and section 1860D-1(c) of the Act (relating to dissemination of enrollment information for the drug benefit).


(c) *Applicability.* The fee assessment also applies to those demonstrations for which enrollment is effected or coordinated under section 1851 of the Act. 


(d) *Collection of fees*—(1) *Timing of collection.* CMS collects the fees over 9 consecutive months beginning with January of each fiscal year. 


(2) *Amount to be collected.* The aggregate amount of fees for a fiscal year is the lesser of— 


(i) The estimated costs to be incurred by CMS in that fiscal year to carry out the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section; or 


(ii) For fiscal year 2006 and each succeeding year, the applicable portion (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) of $200 million.” 


(e) *Applicable portion.* In this section, the term “applicable portion” with respect to an MA plan means, for a fiscal year, CMS's estimate of Medicare Part C and D expenditures for those MA organizations as a percentage of all expenditures under title XVIII and with respect to PDP sponsors, the applicable portion is CMS's estimate of Medicare Part D prescription drug expenditures for those PDP sponsors as a percentage of all expenditures under title XVIII.


(f) *Assessment methodology.* (1) The amount of the applicable portion of the user fee each MA organization and PDP sponsor must pay is assessed as a percentage of the total Medicare payments to each organization. CMS determines the annual assessment percentage rate separately for MA organizations and for PDPs using the following formula:


(i) The assessment formula for MA organizations (including MA-PD plans):


C divided by A times B where—


A is the total estimated January payments to all MA organizations subject to the assessment;


B is the 9-month (January through September) assessment period; and


C is the total fiscal year MA organization user fee assessment amount determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(ii) The assessment formula for PDPs: C divided by A times B where—A is the total estimated January payments to all PDP sponsors subject to the assessment; B is the 9-month (January through September) assessment period; and C is the total fiscal year PDP sponsor's user fee assessment amount determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) CMS determines each MA organization's and PDP sponsor's pro rata share of the annual fee on the basis of the organization's calculated monthly payment amount during the 9 consecutive months beginning with January. CMS calculates each organization's monthly pro rata share by multiplying the established percentage rate by the total monthly calculated Medicare payment amount to the organization as recorded in CMS's payment system on the first day of the month.


(3) CMS deducts the organization's fee from the amount of Federal funds otherwise payable to the MA organization or PDP sponsor for that month.


(4) If assessments reach the amount authorized for the year before the end of September, CMS discontinues assessment. 


(5) If there are delays in determining the amount of the annual aggregate fees specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, or the fee percentage rate specified in paragraph (f)(2), CMS may adjust the assessment time period and the fee percentage amount. 



---

[N] [65 FR 40315, June 29, 2000. Redesignated and amended at 70 FR 4715, Jan. 28, 2005; 70 FR 52026, Sept. 1, 2005]




