# § 2804.26   Under what circumstances may the BLM deny my application?

(a) BLM may deny your application if:


(1) The proposed use is inconsistent with the purpose for which BLM manages the public lands described in your application;


(2) The proposed use would not be in the public interest;


(3) You are not qualified to hold a grant;


(4) Issuing the grant would be inconsistent with FLPMA, other laws, or these or other regulations;




(5) You do not have or cannot demonstrate the technical or financial capability to construct the project or operate facilities within the right-of-way.


(i) Applicants must have or be able to demonstrate technical and financial capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate a project throughout the application process and authorization period. You can demonstrate your financial and technical capability to construct, operate, maintain, and terminate a project by:


(A) Documenting any previous successful experience in construction, operation, and maintenance of similar facilities on either public or non-public lands;


(B) Providing information on the availability of sufficient capitalization to carry out development, including the preliminary study stage of the project and the environmental review and clearance process; or


(C) Providing written copies of conditional commitments of Federal and other loan guarantees; confirmed power purchase agreements; engineering, procurement, and construction contracts; and supply contracts with credible third-party vendors for the manufacture or supply of key components for the project facilities.


(ii) Failure to demonstrate and sustain technical and financial capability is grounds for denying an application or terminating an authorization;


(6) The PODs required by §§ 2804.25(e)(3) and 2804.12(a)(8) and (c)(1) do not meet the development schedule or other requirements in the POD template and the applicant is unable to demonstrate why the POD should be approved;


(7) Failure to commence necessary surveys and studies, or plans for permit processing as required by § 2804.25(c); or


(8) The BLM's evaluation of your solar or wind application made under § 2804.25(e)(2)(iii) provides a basis for a denial.


(9) You do not comply with a deficiency notice (see § 2804.25(c) of this subpart) within the time specified in the notice.




(10) You fail to pay costs for processing your application within 90 days of receiving the BLM's request for funds under § 2804.22(b).




(b) If BLM denies your application, you may appeal this decision under § 2801.10 of this part.





---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 92211, Dec. 19, 2016; 89 FR 25962, Apr. 12, 2024; 89 FR 35679, May 1, 2024]






