# § 930.6   State agency responsibility.

(a) This section describes the responsibilities of the “State agency” described in § 930.11(o). A designated State agency is required to uniformly and comprehensively apply the enforceable policies of the State's management program, efficiently coordinate all State coastal management requirements, and to provide a single point of contact for Federal agencies and the public to discuss consistency issues. Any appointment by the State agency of the State's consistency responsibilities to a designee agency must be described in the State's management program. In the absence of such description, all consistency determinations, consistency certifications and federal assistance proposals shall be sent to and reviewed by the State agency. A State may have two State agencies designated pursuant to § 306(d)(6) of the Act where the State has two geographically separate federally-approved management programs. 


(b) The State agency is responsible for commenting on and concurring with or objecting to Federal agency consistency determinations and negative determinations (*see* subpart C of this part), consistency certifications for federal licenses, permits, and Outer Continental Shelf plans (*see* subparts D, E and I of this part), and reviewing the consistency of federal assistance activities proposed by applicant agencies (*see* subpart F of this part). The State agency shall be responsible for securing necessary review and comment from other State, regional, or local government agencies, and, where applicable, the public. Thereafter, only the State agency is authorized to comment officially on or concur with or object to a federal consistency determination or negative determination, a consistency certification, or determine the consistency of a proposed federal assistance activity. 


(c) If described in a State's management program, the issuance or denial of relevant State permits can constitute the State agency's consistency concurrence or objection if the State agency ensures that the State permitting agencies or the State agency review individual projects to ensure consistency with all applicable State management program policies and that applicable public participation requirements are met. The State agency shall monitor such permits issued by another State agency.




