# ยง 656.19   Live-in household domestic service workers.

(a) *Processing.* Applications on behalf of live-in household domestic service occupations are processed pursuant to the requirements of the basic process at ยง 656.17.


(b) *Required documentation.* Employers filing applications on behalf of live-in household domestic service workers must provide, in event of an audit, the following documentation:


(1) A statement describing the household living accommodations, including the following:


(i) Whether the residence is a house or apartment;


(ii) The number of rooms in the residence;


(iii) The number of adults and children, and ages of the children, residing in the household; and


(iv) That free board and a private room not shared with any other person will be provided to the alien.


(2) Two copies of the employment contract, each signed and dated prior to the filing of the application by both the employer and the alien (not by their attorneys or agents). The contract must clearly state:


(i) The wages to be paid on an hourly and weekly basis;


(ii) Total hours of employment per week, and exact hours of daily employment;


(iii) That the alien is free to leave the employer's premises during all non-work hours except the alien may work overtime if paid for the overtime at no less than the legally required hourly rate;


(iv) That the alien will reside on the employer's premises;


(v) Complete details of the duties to be performed by the alien;


(vi) The total amount of any money to be advanced by the employer with details of specific items, and the terms of repayment by the alien of any such advance by the employer;


(vii) That in no event may the alien be required to give more than two weeks' notice of intent to leave the employment contracted for and the employer must give the alien at least two weeks' notice before terminating employment;


(viii) That a duplicate contract has been furnished to the alien;


(ix) That a private room and board will be provided at no cost to the worker; and


(x) Any other agreement or conditions not specified on the *Application for Permanent Employment Certification* form.


(3) Documentation of the alien's paid experience in the form of statements from past or present employers setting forth the dates (month and year) employment started and ended, hours of work per day, number of days worked per week, place where the alien worked, detailed statement of duties performed on the job, equipment and appliances used, and the amount of wages paid per week or month. The total paid experience must be equal to one full year's employment on a full-time basis. For example, two year's experience working half-days is the equivalent of one year's full time experience. Time spent in a household domestic service training course can not be included in the required one year of paid experience. Each statement must contain the name and address of the person who signed it and show the date on which the statement was signed. A statement not in English shall be accompanied by a written translation into English certified by the translator as to the accuracy of the translation, and as to the translator's competency to translate.




