# § 98.163   Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual CO_2_ emissions from each hydrogen production process unit using the procedures specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable.










(a) *Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMS).* Calculate and report under this subpart the CO_2_ emissions by operating and maintaining CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).


(b) Fuel and feedstock material balance approach. Calculate and report CO_2_ emissions as the sum of the annual emissions associated with each fuel and feedstock used for each hydrogen production process unit by following paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The carbon content and molecular weight shall be obtained from the analyses conducted in accordance with § 98.164(b)(2), (3), or (4), as applicable, or from the missing data procedures in § 98.165. If the analyses are performed annually, then the annual value shall be used as the monthly average. If the analyses are performed more frequently than monthly, use the arithmetic average of values obtained during the month as the monthly average.














(1) *Gaseous fuel and feedstock.* You must calculate the annual CO_2_ emissions from each gaseous fuel and feedstock according to Equation P-1 of this section:


(2) *Liquid fuel and feedstock.* You must calculate the annual CO_2_ emissions from each liquid fuel and feedstock according to Equation P-2 of this section:


(3) *Solid fuel and feedstock.* You must calculate the annual CO_2_ emissions from each solid fuel and feedstock according to Equation P-3 of this section:


(c) If GHG emissions from a hydrogen production process unit are vented through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports CO_2_ emissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part, then the owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part. If GHG emissions from a hydrogen production process unit using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part does not include combustion emissions from the hydrogen production unit (*i.e.* , the hydrogen production unit has separate stacks for process and combustion emissions), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall be used considering only fuel inputs to calculate and report CO_2_ emissions from fuel combustion related to the hydrogen production unit.









---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 66463, Oct. 28, 2010; 75 FR 79157, Dec. 17, 2010; 78 FR 71955, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89257, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31926, Apr. 25, 2024]








