# § 63.1024   Leak repair.

(a) *Leak repair schedule.* The owner or operator shall repair each leak detected as soon as practical, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. A first attempt at repair as defined in this subpart shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempt at repair for pumps includes, but is not limited to, tightening the packing gland nuts and/or ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature. First attempt at repair for valves includes, but is not limited to, tightening the bonnet bolts, and/or replacing the bonnet bolts, and/or tightening the packing gland nuts, and/or injecting lubricant into the lubricated packing.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Leak identification removal*—(1) *Valves and connectors in gas/vapor and light liquid service.* The leak identification on a valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 63.1025(d)(2), and no leak has been detected during that monitoring. The leak identification on a connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 63.1027(b)(3)(iv) and no leak has been detected during that monitoring.


(2) *Other equipment.* The identification that has been placed, pursuant to § 63.1023(e)(1), on equipment determined to have a leak, except for a valve or for a connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service that is subject to the provisions of § 63.1027(b)(3)(iv), may be removed after it is repaired.


(d) *Delay of repair.* Delay of repair is allowed for any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section. The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why the repair was technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown.


(1) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible without a process unit or affected facility shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur as soon as practical, but no later than the end of the next process unit or affected facility shutdown, except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(2) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed for equipment that is isolated from the process and that does not remain in regulated material service.


(3) Delay of repair for valves, connectors, and agitators is also allowed if the provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section are met.


(i) The owner or operator determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and


(ii) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed, collected and routed to a fuel gas system or process, or recovered in a control device complying with either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b) of this part.


(4) Delay of repair for pumps is also allowed if the provisions of paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section are met.


(i) Repair requires replacing the existing seal design with a new system that the owner or operator has determined under the provisions of § 63.1035(d) will provide better performance or one of the specifications of paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section are met.


(A) A dual mechanical seal system that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(1) will be installed;


(B) A pump that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(2) will be installed; or


(C) A system that routes emissions to a process or a fuel gas system or a closed vent system and control device that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(3) will be installed; and


(ii) Repair is completed as soon as practical, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.


(5) Delay of repair beyond a process unit or affected facility shutdown will be allowed for a valve if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit or affected facility shutdown, and valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the second process unit or affected facility shutdown will not be allowed unless the third process unit or affected facility shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit or affected facility shutdown.


(e) *Unsafe-to-repair—connectors.* Any connector that is designated, as described in § 63.1022(d), as an unsafe-to-repair connector is exempt from the requirements of § 63.1027(d), and paragraph (a) of this section.


(f) *Leak repair records.* For each leak detected, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section shall be recorded and maintained pursuant to the referencing subpart.


(1) The date of first attempt to repair the leak.


(2) The date of successful repair of the leak.


(3) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A at the time the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.


(4) “Repair delayed” and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak as specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (f)(4)(ii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or may be part of a separate document that is maintained at the plant site. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.


(ii) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked on-site before depletion and the reason for depletion.


(5) Dates of process unit or affected facility shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.




