# § 402.5   Contract renewals under section 524(b) or (e) of MAHRA.

(a) *Renewal of projects eligible for exception rents at owner's request.* HUD will offer to renew project-based assistance for a project eligible for exception rents under section 524(b) of MAHRA at rent levels determined under this section instead of § 402.4, except as provided in § 402.7, but the owner of a project other than a project with assistance under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program may request renewal under § 402.4.


(b) *Rent levels for projects eligible for exception rents.* HUD will renew the contract with rent levels at the least of:


(1) Existing rents adjusted by an OCAF;


(2) A budget-based rent determined in accordance with instructions issued by HUD, subject to a determination by HUD that such a rent level is appropriate; or


(3) In the case of a contract under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program (other than an SRO contract), the lesser of existing rents adjusted by an OCAF, fair market rents (less any amounts for tenant-purchased utilities), or comparable market rents, as provided in section 524(b)(3) of MAHRA.


(c) *Rent adjustments.* (1) After rents have been established under this section, rent adjustments will comply with section 524(c) of MAHRA except as otherwise required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section for preservation projects.


(2) Rent adjustments for projects assisted under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program, other than projects assisted under the moderate rehabilitation single-room occupancy program, shall be determined in accordance with section 524(b)(3) of MAHRA.


(d) *Preservation projects and demonstration projects.* (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part except § 402.7, upon expiration of a section 8 contract for a project subject to an approved plan of action under the Emergency Low-Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 (ELIHPA) or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (LIHPRHA), the Secretary will provide benefits that are comparable to those provided under such plan of action. This paragraph (d)(1) applies only to the extent amounts are specifically made available in appropriations acts.


(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part except § 402.7, upon expiration of a Section 8 contract entered into pursuant to a Portfolio Reengineering demonstration authority for which HUD made a determination that debt restructuring is inappropriate, and the owner of the project executed a Portfolio Reengineering Demonstration Program Use Agreement, the Secretary will provide the owner, at the request of the owner, with benefits comparable to those provided under the contract that is expiring. This paragraph (d)(2) applies only to the extent amounts are made available in appropriations acts.



---

[N] [71 FR 2122, Jan. 12, 2006]




