# ยง 1208.13   Content of appeal; request for hearing.

(a) *Content.* A USERRA appeal may be in any format, including letter form, but must contain the following: 


(1) The nine (9) items or types of information required in 5 CFR 1201.24(a)(1) through (a)(9); 


(2) Evidence or argument that the appellant has performed service in a uniformed service, including the dates of such service (or, where applicable, has applied for or has an obligation to perform such service), and that the appellant otherwise satisfies the requirements for coverage under chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code; 


(3) A statement describing in detail the basis for the appeal, that is, the protected right or benefit that was allegedly denied, including reference to the provision(s) of chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, allegedly violated if possible. 


(4) If the appellant filed a complaint with the Secretary of Labor under 38 U.S.C. 4322(a), evidence of notice under 38 U.S.C. 4322(e) that the Secretary's efforts have not resolved the complaint (a copy of the Secretary's notice satisfies this requirement); and 


(5) If the appellant's complaint was referred to the Special Counsel and the appellant has received notice that the Special Counsel will not represent the appellant before the Board, evidence of the Special Counsel's notice (a copy of the Special Counsel's notice satisfies this requirement). 


(b) *Request for hearing.* An appellant must submit any request for a hearing with the USERRA appeal, or within any other time period the judge sets. A hearing may be provided to the appellant once the Board's jurisdiction over the appeal is established. The judge may also order a hearing if necessary to resolve issues of jurisdiction. The appellant has the burden of proof with respect to issues of jurisdiction (5 CFR 1201.56(a)(2)(i)).


(c) *Electronic filing.* An appeal may be filed electronically by using the Board's e-Appeal site (*https://e-appeal.mspb.gov*) in accordance with ยง 1201.14 of this chapter.



---

[N] [65 FR 5412, Feb. 4, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 49896, Aug. 16, 2000; 68 FR 59865, Oct. 20, 2003; 69 FR 57631, Sept. 27, 2004]




