# § 223.195   Procedures for identifying and marking unprocessed timber.

(a) *Highway yellow paint.* The use of highway yellow paint on unprocessed logs west of the 100th meridian in the contiguous 48 States shall be reserved for identifying logs requiring domestic manufacturing.


(b) *Preserving identification.* All identifying marks placed on an unprocessed log to identify the National Forest System origin of that log and/or to identify the log as requiring domestic processing shall be retained on the log until the log is domestically processed. If the identifying marks are lost, removed, or become unreadable, they shall be replaced. If the log is cut into two or more segments, each segment shall be identified in the same manner as the original log.


(1) A generic log hammer brand, known as a “catch brand”, used to identify ownership, may be used to replace lost, removed, unreadable or otherwise missing brands where such use is authorized by the Regional Forester and approved by the Contracting Officer. Use of such a catch brand on a log or log segment will signify Federal origin.


(2) The requirement to preserve identification of log pieces shall not apply to logs cut into two or more segments as a part of the mill in-feed process immediately before processing. Log segments that are returned to or placed in storage must be marked on both ends with yellow paint.


(c) *National Forest System logs.* Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, all unprocessed logs originating from National Forest System timber sales west of the 100th meridian in the contiguous 48 States shall, before being removed from the timber sale area, be marked on each end as follows:


(1) Painted on each end with a spot of highway yellow paint not less than three square inches in size; and,


(2) Branded on each end with a hammer brand approved for use by the Forest Supervisor of the National Forest from which the logs originate. The brand pattern may not be used to mark logs from any other source for a period of 24 months after all logs have been removed from the sale area and until such brand pattern is released in writing by the Forest Supervisor.


(d) *Private logs.* All unprocessed logs originating from private lands west of the 100th meridian in the contiguous 48 States that require domestic manufacturing pursuant to § 223.194 of this subpart, shall be painted on each end with a spot of highway yellow paint not less than three (3) square inches in size before removal from the harvest area. If private logs are acquired by a person who may not export such logs, the logs must be marked by the person acquiring the logs at the time of the acquisition.


(e) *Waiver of painting requirements.* The log painting requirements pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) and (d) of this section may be waived if the Chief of the Forest Service determines that alternate methods for identifying logs required to be domestically processed are equal to or better than the procedures required herein.


(f) *Waiver of branding requirements.* Regional Foresters may waive the branding requirements pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section as follows:


(1) *Regions 1, 2, 3, and 4.* On an individual timber sale basis, all or a portion of the branding requirements pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be waived, if:


(i) Unprocessed logs from any origin are not known to have been exported by any person from the person's area of operations within the previous 5; years. 


(ii) The person certifies as follows:


(iii) The person otherwise complies with the regulations relating to transfers of logs between persons. 


(iv) If the Regional Forester determines that unprocessed logs from my origin are being exported, or are known to have been exported within the previous 5 years, by any person from the person's area of operations, the Regional Forester shall revoke the waiver. 


(2) *Regions 5 and 6.* On an individual timber sale basis, the branding requirement pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be waived for logs ten (10) inches or less in diameter inside bark on the large end may be waived if: 


(i) One end of each log is branded; 


(ii) The person certifies as follows: 


(iii) The purchaser otherwise complies with the regulations relating to transfers of logs between persons. 


(iv) If the Regional Forester determines that logs ten (10) inches or less in diameter inside bark on the large end are being exported in the Region, the Regional Forester shall revoke the waiver. 


(3) The Chief of the Forest Service may authorize the testing of alternative methods of branding for consideration in future amendment of these regulations. Such alternative methods and logs marked under those methods shall be closely monitored. 




