# § 1.46-5   Qualified progress expenditures.

(a) *Effective date.* This section applies to taxable years ending after December 31, 1974. This section reflects amendments to the Internal Revenue Code made only by the Tax Reduction Act of 1975, the Tax Reform Act of 1976, and the Revenue Act of 1978.


(b) *General rule.* Under section 46(d), a taxpayer may elect to take the investment credit for qualified progress expenditures (as defined in paragraph (g) of this section). In general, qualified progress expenditures are amounts paid (paid or incurred in the case of self-constructed property) for construction of progress expenditure property. The taxpayer must reasonably estimate that the property will take at least 2 years to construct and that the useful life of the property will be 7 years or more. Qualified progress expenditures may not be taken into account if made before the later of January 22, 1975, or the first taxable year to which an election under section 46(d) applies. In general, qualified progress expenditures are not allowed for the year property is placed in service, nor for the first year or any subsequent year recapture is required under section 47(a)(3). There is a percentage limitation on qualified progress expenditures for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1980. For a special rule relating to transfers of progress expenditure property, see paragraph (r) of this section.


(c) *Reduction of qualified investment.* Under section 46(c)(4), a taxpayer must reduce qualified investment for the year property is placed in service by qualified progress expenditures taken into account by that person or a predecessor. A “predecessor” of a taxpayer is a person whose election under section 46(d) carries over to the taxpayer under paragraph (o)(3) of this section.


(d) *Progress expenditure property.* Progress expenditure property is property constructed by or for the taxpayer, with a normal construction period of 2 years or more. The taxpayer must reasonably believe that the property will be new section 38 property with a useful life of 7 years or more when placed in service. Whether property is progress expenditure property is determined on the basis of facts know at the close of the taxable year of the taxpayer in which construction begins (or, if later, at the close of the first taxable year to which an election under section 46(d) applies). For purposes of this paragraph (d), property is constructed by or for the taxpayer only if it is built or manufactured from materials and component parts. Accordingly, progress expenditure property does not include property such as orchards, vineyards, livestock, or motion picture films or videotapes.


(e) *Normal construction period*—(1) *In general.* (i) The normal construction period is the period the taxpayer reasonably expects will be required to construct the property. The period begins on the date physical work on construction of the property commences and ends on the date the property is available to be placed in service. The normal construction period does not include, however, construction before January 22, 1975, nor construction before the first day of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect. Physical work on construction of property does not include preliminary activities such as planning, designing, preparing blueprints, exploring, or securing financing.


(ii) The determination of the time when physical work on construction commences is based on the facts and circumstances of each case. Physical work on construction of property may include the physical work done by a subcontractor on a component specifically designated as part of the property. Also, the commencement of physical work on construction may occur at a site different from the main site of construction of the property. For example, if a shipyard orders a turbine before it begins work on building a ship, the normal construction period of the ship is measured from the time the subcontractor commences physical work on construction of the turbine (if it is normal for such work to precede the work of the main contractor).


(iii) Generally, physical work on construction does not include physical activity that is not necessary to complete construction of the property, nor does it include physical work on construction of a building or other property that will not be new section 38 property when placed in service. Physical work on construction also does not include research and development activities in a laboratory or experimental setting.


(iv) The normal construction period of property ends on the date it is expected the property will be available to be placed in service. Property is considered available to be placed in service when construction is completed and the property is available for delivery to the site of its assigned function. It is not necessary that property be in a state of readiness for a specifically assigned function. Nor is it necessary that it actually be delivered to the site of its assigned function.


(2) *Estimates.* Taxpayers should refer to normal industry practice in estimating the normal construction period of particular items. A different period may be used if special circumstances exist making it impractical to make the estimate on the basis of normal industry practice. The estimate must be based on information available at the close of the taxable year in which physical work on construction of the property begins, or, if later, at the close of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect for the taxpayer. If the estimate is reasonable when made, the actual time it takes to complete the work is, in general, irrelevant in determining whether property is progress expenditure property. However, if there is a significant error in estimating the normal construction period, it may be evidence that the estimate was unreasonable when made. For taxable years ending after April 1, 1988, a taxpayer not relying or normal industry practice to estimate the normal construction period of particular property must attach to the tax return for the taxable year in which physical work on construction of the property begins (or, if later, the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect) a statement of the basis relied upon in estimating the normal construction period of the property. 


(3) *Integrated unit.* (i) In determining whether property has a normal construction period of 2 years or more, property that will be placed in service separately is to be considered separately. For example, if two ships are contracted for at the same time, each ship is considered separately under this paragraph. However, for property that will be placed in service as an integrated unit, the taxpayer must determine the normal construction period of the integrated unit. If the normal construction period of the integrated unit is 2 years or more, the normal construction period of each item of new section 38 property that is a part of the integrated unit is considered to be 2 years or more. Thus, the normal construction period of an integrated unit may be 2 years or more even if no part of the unit has a normal construction period of 2 years or more.


(ii) Property is part of an integrated unit only if the operation of that item is essential to the performance of the function to which the unit is assigned. Property essential to the performance of the function to which the unit is assigned includes property the use of which is significantly connected to that function and which effects the safe, proper, or efficient performance of the unit. Generally, property must be placed in service at the same time to be considered part of the same integrated unit. Properties are not an integrated unit, however, solely because they are to be placed in service at the same time.


(iii) The normal construction period for an integrated unit begins on the date the normal construction period of the first item of new section 38 property that is part of the unit begins. It is not necessary that physical work commence at the main construction site of the integrated unit.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (e).


(f) *New section 38 property with a 7-year useful life*—(1) *In general.* The taxpayer must determine if property will be new section 38 property with a useful life of 7 years or more when placed in service. The determination must be made at the close of the taxable year in which construction begins or, if later, at the close of the first taxable year to which an election under section 46(d) applies for the taxpayer.


(2) *Determination based on reasonably expected use.* The determination of whether property will be “new section 38 property” (within the meaning of §§ 1.48-1 and 1.48-2 when placed in service must be based on the reasonably expected use of the property by the taxpayer. There is a presumption that property will be new section 38 property if it would be new section 38 property if placed in service by the taxpayer when the determination is made. For example, in determining if property is an integral part of manufacturing under section 48(a)(1)(B)(i), it will be presumed that property will be new section 38 property if the taxpayer is engaged in manufacturing when the determination is made. Also, significant steps taken to establish a trade or business will be evidence the taxpayer will be engaged in that trade or business when the property is placed in service.


(3) *Estimated useful life.* The determination of whether property will have an estimated useful life of 7 years or more when placed in service must be made by applying the principles of § 1.46-3(e). If the estimated useful life is less than 7 years when the property is actually placed in service, the credit previously allowed under section 46(d) must be recomputed under section 47(a)(3)(B).


(g) *Definition of qualified progress expenditures*—(1) *In general.* A taxpayer's qualified progress expenditures are the sum of qualified progress expenditures for self-constructed property (determined under paragraph (h) of this section), plus qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property (determined under paragraph (j) of this section). Only amounts includible under § 1.46-3(c) in the basis of new section 38 property may be considered as qualified progress expenditures.


(2) *Excluded amounts.* Qualified progress expenditures do not include:


(i) In the case of non-self-constructed property, amounts incurred (whether or not paid)—


(A) Before the normal construction period begins, or


(B) Before the later of January 22, 1975, or the first day of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) applies for the taxpayer;


(ii) In the case of self-constructed property, amounts chargeable to capital account—


(A) Before the normal construction period begins, or


(B) Before the later of January 22, 1975, or the first day of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) applies for the taxpayer,


(iii) Expenditures with respect to particular property in the earlier of—


(A) The taxable year in which the property is placed in service, or


(B) The taxable year in which the taxpayer must recapture investment credit under section 47(a)(3) for the property or any subsequent year;


(iv) Expenditures for construction, reconstruction, or erection of property that is not section 38 property; or


(v) Amounts treated as an expense and deducted in the year paid or accrued.


(h) *Qualified progress expenditures for self-constructed property*—(1) *In general.* Qualified progress expenditures for self-constructed property (as defined in paragraph (k) of this section) are amounts properly chargeable to capital account in connection with that property. In general, amounts paid or incurred are chargeable to capital account if under the taxpayer's method of accounting they are properly includible in computing basis under § 1.46-3. Qualified progress expenditures for self-constructed property include both direct costs (e.g., labor, material, parts) and indirect costs (e.g., overhead, insurance) associated with construction of property to the extent those costs are properly chargeable to capital account.


(2) *Property partially non-self constructed.* If an item of property is self-constructed because more than half of the construction expenditures are made directly by the taxpayer, then any expenditures (whether or not made directly by the taxpayer) for construction of that item of property are not subject to the limitations of section 46(d)(3)(B) and paragraph (j) of this section (relating to actual payment and progress in construction).


(3) *Time when amounts paid or incurred are properly chargeable to capital account.* (i) In general, expenditures for component parts and materials to be used in construction of self-constructed property are not properly chargeable to capital account until consumed or physically attached in the construction process. Component parts and materials that have been neither consumed nor physically attached in the construction process, but which have been irrevocably allocated to construction of that property are properly chargeable to capital account. Component parts and materials designed specifically for the self-constructed property may be considered irrevocably allocated to construction of that property at the time of manufacture of the component parts and materials. Component parts and materials not designed specifically for the property may be considered irrevocably allocated to construction at the time of delivery to the construction site if they would be economically impractical to remove. For example, pumps delivered to sites of construction of a tundra pipeline may be treated as irrevocably allocated to that pipeline on the date of delivery, even if they would be usable, but for their location on the tundra, in connection with other property. Component parts and materials are not to be considered irrevocably allocated to use in self-constructed property until physical work on construction of that property has begun (as determined under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section). Mere bookkeeping notations are not sufficient evidence that the necessary allocation has been made.


(ii) A taxpayer's procedure for determining the time when an expenditure is properly chargeable to capital account for self-constructed property is a method of accounting. Under section 446(e), the method of accounting, once adopted, may not be changed without consent of the Secretary.


(4) *Records requirement.* The taxpayer shall maintain detailed records which permit specific identification of the amounts properly chargeable by the taxpayer during each taxable year to capital account for each item of self-constructed property.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property*—(1) *In general.* Qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property (as defined in paragraph (l) of this section) are amounts actually paid by the taxpayer to another person for construction of the property, but only to the extent progress is made in construction. For example, such expenditures may include payments to the manufacturer of an item of progress expenditure property, payments to a contractor building progress expenditure property, or payments for engineering designs or blueprints that are drawn up during the normal construction period.


(2) *Property partially self-constructed.* If an item of property is non-self-constructed, but a taxpayer uses its own employees to construct a portion of the property, expenditures for construction of that portion are made directly by the taxpayer (see § 1.46-5(h)(1)). Subject to the limitations of paragraph (g) of this section, those expenditures are qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property if they satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (j) (4), (5), and (6) of this section. Wages actually paid to the taxpayer's employees are presumed to correspond to progress in construction. Other amounts, including expenditures for materials, parts, and overhead, must be actually paid, not borrowed from the payee, and attributable to progress made in construction by the taxpayer.


(3) *Property constructed by more than one person.* The percentage of completion limitation (as prescribed in paragraph (j)(6) of this section), including the presumption of ratable progress in construction, applies to an item of progress expenditure property as a whole. However, if several manufacturers or contractors do work in connection with the same property, the progress that each person makes toward completion of construction of the property must be determined separately. Section 46(d)(3)(B) is then applied separately to amounts paid to each manufacturer or contractor based on each person's progress in construction. For example, assume the taxpayer contracts with three persons to build an item of equipment. The taxpayer contracts with A to build the frame, B to build the motor, and C to assemble the frame and motor. Assume each contract represents 33
1/3 percent of the construction costs of the property. If, within the taxable year in which construction begins, A and B each complete 50 percent of the construction of the frame and motor, respectively, amounts paid to A during that taxable year not in excess of 16
2/3 percent of the overall cost of the property, and amounts paid to B during that taxable year not in excess of 16
2/3 percent of the overall cost of the property, are qualified progress expenditures. Section 46(d)(3)(B) does not apply, however, to persons, such as lower-tier subcontractors, that do not have a direct contractual relationship with the taxpayer. If, in the above example, A engages a subcontractor to construct part of the frame, section 46(d)(3)(B) is applied only to amounts paid by the taxpayer to A, B, and C, but the portion of construction completed by A during a taxable year includes the portion completed by A's subcontractor.


(4) *Requirement of actual payment.* Qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property must be actually paid and not merely incurred. Amounts paid during the taxable year to another person for construction of non-self-constructed property may be in the form of money or property (e.g., materials). However, property given as payment may be considered only to the extent it will be includible under § 1.46-3(c) in the basis of the non-self-constructed property when it is placed in service.


(5) *Certain borrowing disregarded.* Qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property do not include any amount paid to another person (the “payee”) for construction if the amount is paid out of funds borrowed directly or indirectly from the payee. Amounts borrowed directly or indirectly from the payee by any person that is related to the taxpayer (within the meaning of section 267) or that is a member of the same controlled group of corporations (as defined in section 1563(a)) will be considered borrowed indirectly from the payee. Similarly, amounts borrowed under any financing arrangement that has the effect of making the payee a surety will be considered amounts borrowed indirectly by the taxpayer from the payee.


(6) *Percentage of completion limitation.* (i) Under section 46(d)(3)(B)(ii), payments made in any taxable year may be considered qualified progress expenditures for non-self-constructed property only to the extent they are attributable to progress made in construction (percentage of completion limitation). Progress will generally be measured in terms of the manufacturer's incurred cost, as a fraction of the anticipated cost (as adjusted from year to year). Architectural or engineering estimates will be evidence of progress made in construction. Cost accounting records also will be evidence of progress. Progress will be presumed to occur not more rapidly than ratably over the normal construction period. However, the taxpayer may rebut the presumption by clear and convincing evidence of a greater percentage of completion.


(ii) If, after the first year of construction, there is a change in either the total cost to the taxpayer or the total cost of construction by another person, the taxpayer must recompute the percentage of completion limitation on the basis of revised cost. However, the recomputation will affect only amounts allowed as qualified progress expenditures in the taxable year in which the change occurs and in subsequent taxable years. The recomputation remains subject to the presumption of pro rata completion.


(iii) If, for any taxable year, the amount paid to another person for construction of an item of property under section 46(d)(3)(B)(i) exceeds the percentage of completion limitation in section 46(d)(3)(B)(ii), the excess is treated as an amount paid to the other person for construction for the succeeding taxable year. If for any taxable year the percentage of completion limitation for an item of property exceeds the amount paid to another during the taxable year for construction, the excess is added to the percentage of completion limitation for that property for the succeeding taxable year.


(iv) The taxpayer must maintain detailed records which permit specific identification of the amounts paid to each person for construction of each item of property and the percentage of construction completed by each person for each taxable year.


(7) *Example.* The following example illustrates paragraph (j)(6) of this section.


(k) *Definition of self-constructed property*—(1) *In general.* Property is self-constructed property if it is reasonable to believe that more than half of the construction expenditures for the property will be made directly by the taxpayer. Construction expenditures made directly by the taxpayer include direct costs such as wages and materials and indirect costs such as overhead attributable to construction of the property. Expenditures for direct and indirect costs of construction will be treated as construction expenditures made directly by the taxpayer only to the extent that the expenditures directly benefit the construction of the property by employees of the taxpayer. Thus, wages paid to taxpayers's employees and expenditures for basic construction materials, such as sheet metal, lumber, glass, and nails, which are used by employees of the taxpayer to construct progress expenditure property, will be considered made directly by the taxpayer. Construction expenditures made by the taxpayer to a contractor or manufacturer, in general, will not be considered made directly by the taxpayer. Thus, the cost of component parts, such as boilers and turbines, which are purchased and merely installed or assembled by the taxpayer, will not be considered expenditures made directly by the taxpayer for construction. (*See* paragraph (h)(3) of this section to determine when such cost is properly chargeable to capital account.)


(2) *Time when determination made.* The determination of whether property is self-constructed is to be made at the close of the taxable year in which physical work on construction of the property begins, or, if later, the close of the first taxable year to which an election under this section applies. Once it is reasonably estimated that more than half of construction expenditures will be made directly by the taxpayer, the fact the taxpayer actually makes half, or less than half, of the expenditures directly will not affect classification of the property as self-constructed property. Similarly, once a determination has been made, classification of property as self-constructed property is not affected by a change in circumstances in a later taxable year. However, a significant error unrelated to a change in circumstances may be evidence that the estimate was unreasonable when made.


(3) *Determination based on certain expenditures.* For purposes of determining whether more than half of the expenditures for construction of an item of property will be made directly by the taxpayer, the taxpayer may take into account only expenditures properly includable by the taxpayer in the basis of the property under the provisions of § 1.46-3(c). Thus, property is self-constructed property only if more than half of the estimated basis of the property to be used for purposes of determining the credit allowed by section 38 is attributable to expenditures made directly by the taxpayer.


(l) *Definition of non-self-constructed property.* Non-self-constructed property is property that is not self-constructed property. Thus, property is non-self-constructed property if it is reasonable to believe that only half, or less than half, of the expenditures for construction will be made directly by the taxpayer.


(m) *Alternative limitations for public utility, railroad, or airline property.* The alternative limitations on qualified investment under section 46(a) (7) and (8) for public utility, railroad, or airline property (whichever applies) apply in determining the credit for qualified progress expenditures. The determination of whether progress expenditure property will be public utility, railroad, or airline property (whichever applies) when placed in service must be made at the close of the taxable year in which physical work on construction begins or, if later, at the close of the first taxable year for which an election under section 46(d) is in effect. If, at that time, the taxpayer is in a trade or business as a public utility, railroad, or airline (as described in section 46(c)(3)(B) and 46(a)(8) (D) and (E), respectively), it is evidence the property will be public utility, railroad, or airline property when placed in service.


(n) *Leased property.* A lessor of progress expenditure property may not elect under section 48(d) to treat a lessee (or a person who will be a lessee) as having made qualified progress expenditures.


(o) *Election*—(1) In *general.* The election under section 46(d)(6) to increase qualified investment by qualified progress expenditures may be made for any taxable year ending after December 31, 1974. Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this section, the election is effective for the first taxable year for which it is made and for all taxable years thereafter unless it is revoked with the consent of the Commissioner. Except as provided in paragraphs (o) (2) and (3) of this section, the election applies to all qualified progress expenditures made by the taypayer during the taxable year for construction of any progress expenditure property. Thus, the taxpayer may not make the election for one item of progress expenditure property and not for other items. If progress expenditure property is being constructed by or for a partnership, S corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)), trust, or estate, an election under section 46(d)(6) must be made separately by each partner or shareholder, or each beneficiary if the beneficiary, in determining his tax liability, would be allowed investment credit under section 38 for property subject to the election. The election may not be made by a partnership or S corporation, and may be made by a trust or estate only if the trust or estate, in determining its tax liability, would be allowed investment credit under section 38 for property subject to the election. The election of any partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate will be effective for that person, even if a related partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate does not make the election. An election made by a partner, shareholder, beneficiary, trust, or estate applies to all progress expenditure property of that person. For example, an election made by corporation X, which is a partner in the XYZ partnership, applies to progress expenditure property the corporation holds in its own capacity and also to its interest in progress expenditure property of the partnership.


(2) *Time and manner of making election.* An election under section 46(d)(6) must be made on Form 3468 and filed with the original income tax return for the first taxable year ending after December 31, 1974 to which the election will apply. An election made before March 2, 1988, by filing a written statement (whether or not attached to the income tax return) will be considered valid. The election may not be made on an amended return filed after the time prescribed for filing the original return (including extensions) for that taxable year. However, an election under this section may be made or revoked by filing a statement with an amended return filed on or before May 31, 1988, if the due date for filing a return for the first taxable year to which the election applies is before May 31, 1988.


(3) *Carryover of election in certain transactions.* In general, and election under section 46(d)(6) does not carry over to the transferee of progress expenditure property (or an interest therein). However, if under section 47(b) the property does not cease to be progress expenditure property because of the transfer, the election will carry over to the transferee. If so, the election will apply only to the property transferred. For rules relating to the determination of qualified progress expenditures of the transferee, see paragraph (r) of this section.


(p) *Partnerships, S corporations, trusts, or estates*—(1) *In general.* Each partner, shareholder, trust, estate, or beneficiary of a trust or estate that makes an election under section 46(d) shall take into account its share of qualified progress expenditures (determined under paragraph (p)(2) of this section) made by the partnership, S corporation, trust, or estate. In determining qualified investment for the year in which the property is placed in service, the basis of the property is apportioned as provided in §§ 1.46-3(f), 1.48-6, or 1.48-5 (whichever applies). Each partner, shareholder, trust, estate, or beneficiary that made the election must reduce qualified investment under section 46(c)(4) for the year the property is placed in service by qualified progress expenditures taken into account by that person.


(2) *Determination of share of qualified progress expenditures.* The share of qualified progress expenditures of each partner, shareholder, trust, estate, or beneficiary that makes an election under section 46(d) must be determined in accordance with the same ratio used under §§ 1.46-3(f)(2), 1.48-5(a)(1), or 1.48-6(a)(1) (whichever applies) to determine its share of basis (or cost). The last sentence of § 1.46-3(f)(2)(i) must be applied by referring to the date on which qualified progress expenditures are paid or chargeable to capital amount (whichever is applicable).


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (p).


(q) *Limitation on qualified progress expenditures for taxable years beginning before 1980*—(1) *In general.* (i) Under section 46(d)(7), qualified progress expenditures for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1980, are limited. The taxpayer must apply the limitation under section 46(d)(7) on an item by item basis. In general, the taxpayer may take into account the applicable percentage (as determined under the table in section 46(d)(7)(A)) of qualified progress expenditures for each of those years. In addition, the taxpayer may take into account for each of those years 20 percent of qualified investment for each of the preceding taxable years determined without applying the limitations of section 46(d)(7).


(ii) The applicable percentage under section 46(d)(7)(A) may be applied only for one taxable year that ends within a calendar year in determining qualified investment for an item of progress expenditure property. For example, calendar year partners of a calendar year partnership may increase qualified investment for 1976 by 20 percent of qualified progress expenditures made in 1975 for an item of property. If the partnership incorporates in 1976 and the taxable year of the corporation begins on July 1, 1976, and ends on June 30, 1977, qualified investment of the corporation for its taxable year beginning on July 1, 1976, cannot be increased by 20 percent of the 1975 expenditure.


(2) *Example.* The following example illustrates this paragraph (q).


(r) *Special rules for transferred property*—(1) *In general.* A transferee of progress expenditure property (or an interest therein) may take into account qualified progress expenditures for the property only if— 


(i) The property is progress expenditure property in the hands of the transferee, and 


(ii) The transferee makes an election under section 46(d) or the election made by the transferor (or its predecessor) carries over to the transferee under paragraph (o)(3) of this section. 


(2) *Status as progress expenditure property.* (i) If the transfer requires recapture under section 47(a)(3) and § 1.47-1(g) (or would require recapture if the transferor had made an election under section 46(d)), then— 


(A) For purposes of determining if the property is progress expenditure property in the hands of the transferee, the normal construction period for the property begins on the date of the transfer, or, if later, on the first day of the first taxable year for which the transferee makes an election under section 46(d), and 


(B) For purposes of determining whether the property is self-constructed or non-self-constructed in the hands of the transferee, the amount paid or incurred for the transfer of the property will not be considered a construction expenditure made directly by the transferee. 


(ii) If the transfer does not require recapture under section 47(a)(3) and § 1.47-1(g), and the election carries over to the taxpayer under paragraph (o)(3) of this section, the property does not lose its status as progress expenditure property because of the transfer. 


(3) *Amount of qualified progress expenditures for transferee.* (i) If the transfer does not require recapture under section 47(a)(3) and § 147-1(g), and the election carries over to the taxpayer under paragraph (o)(3) of this section, the transferee must determine its qualified progress expenditures— 


(A) By using the same normal construction period used by the transferor, 


(B) By treating the property as having the same status as self-constructed or non-self-constructed as the property had in the hands of the transferor, and 


(C) In the case of non-self-constructed property, by taking into account any excess described in section 46(d)(4)(C)(i) (relating to the excess of payments over the percentage-of-completion limitation) or section 46(d)(4)(C)(ii) (relating to the excess of the percentage-of-completion limitation over the amount of payments) that the transferor would have taken into account with respect to that property. 


(ii) If the transfer requires recapture under section 47(a)(3) and § 1.47-1(g) (or would require recapture if the transferor had made an election under section 46(d)), the amount paid or incurred for the transfer will be considered a payment for construction of that property to the extent that— 


(A) It is properly includible in the basis of the property under § 1.46-3(c), 


(B) The taxpayer can show the amount is attributable to construction costs paid or chargeable to capital account by the transferor or other person after physical work on construction of the property began, and 


(C) It does not exceed the amount by which the transferor has increased qualified investment for qualified progress expenditures incurred with respect to the property (or would have increased qualified investment but for the “lesser of” limitation of section 46(d)(3)(B) or the absence of an election under section 46(d)), plus any amount that would have been treated as a qualified progress expenditure by the transferor had the property not been transferred.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate this paragraph (r).



---

[N] [T.D. 8183, 53 FR 6618, Mar. 2, 1988; 53 FR 11162, Apr. 5, 1988]




