# 11.204   Solicitation provisions.

(a) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.211-1, Availability of Specifications Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, in solicitations that cite specifications listed in the Index that are not furnished with the solicitation.




(b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 52.211-2, Availability of Defense Specifications, Standards, and Data Item Descriptions in the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System (ASSIST) website, in solicitations that cite specifications available in ASSIST that are not furnished with the solicitation.




(c) The contracting officer shall insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.211-3, Availability of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, in solicitations that cite specifications that are not listed in the Index and are not furnished with the solicitation, but may be obtained from a designated source.


(d) The contracting officer shall insert a provision substantially the same as the provision at 52.211-4, Availability for Examination of Specifications Not Listed in the GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, in solicitations that cite specifications that are not listed in the Index and are available for examination at a specified location.



---

[N] [60 FR 48238, Sept. 18, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 34063, June 22, 1998; 71 FR 228, Jan. 3, 2006; 88 FR 53755, Aug. 8, 2023]




