# § 150.1   Definitions.

(a) *Director* means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (*see* § 1.9(j)).


(b) *Foreign government* means the duly-constituted executive of a foreign nation, or an international or regional intergovernmental organization which has been empowered by its member states to request issuance of Presidential proclamations on their behalf under this part.


(c) *Interim order* means an order issued by the Secretary of Commerce under 17 U.S.C. 914.


(d) *Mask work* means a series of related images, however fixed or encoded—


(1) Having or representing the predetermined, three-dimensional pattern of metallic, insulating, or semiconductor material present or removed from the layers of a semiconductor chip product; and


(2) In which series the relation of the images to one another is that each image has the pattern of the surface of one form of the semiconductor chip product.


(e) *Presidential proclamation* means an action by the President extending to foreign nationals, domiciliaries and sovereign authorities the privilege of applying for registrations for mask works pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 902.


(f) *Request* means a request by a foreign government for the issuance of a Presidential proclamation.


(g) *Proceeding* means a proceeding to issue an interim order extending protection to foreign nationals, domiciliaries and sovereign authorities under 17 U.S.C. Chapter 9.


(h) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce.



---

[N] [53 FR 24447, June 29, 1988, as amended at 68 Fr 14339, Mar. 25, 2003]




