# § 70.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not enumerated which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.70, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 70, Procedure and Administration.


*Bureau.* The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Commercial bank.* A bank, whether or not a member of the Federal Reserve System, which has access to the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire. The “FRCS” or “Fedwire” is a communications network that allows Federal Reserve System member banks to effect a transfer of funds for their customers (or other commercial banks) to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*Electronic fund transfer or EFT.* Any transfer of funds effected by a taxpayer's commercial bank, either directly or through a correspondent banking relationship, via the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS) or Fedwire to the Treasury Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*Enforced collection.* Collection of taxes when a taxpayer neglects or refuses to pay voluntarily. Includes such administrative measures as liens and levies.


*IRC.* IRC refers to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (codified in 26 U.S.C.).


*Levy.* The taking of property by seizure and sale or by collection of money due to the debtor, such as wages.


*Lien.* A charge upon real or personal property for the satisfaction of some debt or performance of an obligation.


*Person.* An individual, a trust, estate, partnership, association or other unincorporated organization, fiduciary, company, or corporation, or the District of Columbia, a State, or a political subdivision thereof (including a city, county, or other municipality).


*Provisions of 26 U.S.C. enforced and administered by the Bureau.* Sections 4181 and 4182 of the IRC; subchapters F and G of chapter 32 of the IRC insofar as they relate to activities administered and enforced with respect to sections 4181 and 4182 of the IRC; chapters 51 and 52 of subtitle E of the IRC; and subtitle F of the IRC insofar as it relates to any of the foregoing.


*Secretary of the Treasury or Secretary.* The Secretary of the Treasury or a delegate of the Secretary.


*Seizure.* The act of taking possession of property to satisfy a tax liability or by virtue of an execution.


*Treasury Account.* The Department of the Treasury's General Account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13535, Mar. 31, 1978; 44 FR 55841, Sept. 28,979, as amended by T.D. ATF-77, 46 FR 3002, Jan. 13, 1981; T.D. ATF-301, 55 FR 47608, Nov. 14, 1990; T.D. ATF-331, 57 FR 40327, Sept. 3, 1992; T.D. ATF-378, 61 FR 29955, June 13, 1996; T.D. ATF-450, 66 FR 29022, May 29, 2001; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16959, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5481, Feb. 1, 2011; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87951, Nov. 6, 2024]






