# § 542.414   Significant; significant transaction.

In determining, for purposes of § 542.201(a)(13), whether a transaction is significant, or transactions are significant, the Secretary of the Treasury may consider the totality of the facts and circumstances. As a general matter, the Secretary may consider some or all of the following factors:


(a) *Size, number, and frequency.* The size, number, and frequency of transactions performed over a period of time, including whether the transactions are increasing or decreasing over time and the rate of increase or decrease.


(b) *Nature.* The nature of the transaction(s), including the type, complexity, and commercial purpose of the transaction(s).


(c) *Level of awareness; pattern of conduct.* (1) Whether the transaction(s) is performed with the involvement or approval of management or only by clerical personnel; and


(2) Whether the transaction(s) is part of a pattern of conduct or the result of a business development strategy.


(d) *Nexus.* The proximity between the foreign person engaging in the transaction(s) and the persons blocked pursuant § 542.201 or subject to the prohibitions of § 542.212.


(e) *Impact.* The impact of the transaction(s) on the objectives of the Caesar Act, including:


(1) The economic or other benefit conferred or attempted to be conferred on a sanctioned person blocked pursuant to § 542.201 or subject to the prohibitions of § 542.212; and


(2) Whether and how the transaction(s) contribute to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or delivery systems for such weapons, to support for international terrorism, or to the suppression of human rights.


(f) *Deceptive practices.* Whether the transaction(s) involves an attempt to obscure or conceal the actual parties or true nature of the transaction(s) or to evade sanctions.


(g) *Other relevant factors.* Such other factors that the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary's designee deems relevant on a case-by-case basis in determining the significance of a transaction(s).


(h) *Applicability.* For the purposes of this part, a transaction is not significant if U.S. persons would not require a specific license from OFAC to participate in it.



---

[N] [89 FR 48319, June 6, 2024]






