# § 344.5   What other provisions apply to subscriptions for Time Deposit securities?

(a) *When is my subscription due?* The subscriber must set the issue date for the securities in the subscription. The issue date must be a business day. The issue date cannot be more than 60 days after the date we receive the subscription. If the subscription is for $10 million or less, we must receive a subscription at least 5 days before the issue date. If the subscription is for over $10 million, we must receive the subscription at least 7 days before the issue date.


*Example 1 to paragraph (a):* If SLGS securities totaling $10 million or less will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 11th. If SLGS securities totaling more than $10 million will be issued on May 16th, we must receive the subscription no later than May 9th. In all cases, if SLGS securities will be issued on May 16th, we will not accept the subscription before March 17th.


(b) *How do I start the subscription process?* A subscriber starts the subscription process by entering into SLGSafe the following information:


(1) The issue date;


(2) The total principal amount;


(3) The issuer's name and Taxpayer Identification Number;


(4) A description of the tax-advantaged bond issue;


(5) Separately itemized securities to be purchased, specifying principal amount, maturity date, interest rate, and first interest payment date (in the case of notes and bonds) for each; and


(6) The certifications required by § 344.2(e).










(c) *Under what circumstances can I cancel a subscription?* You cannot cancel a subscription unless you establish, to the satisfaction of Treasury, that the cancellation is required for reasons unrelated to the use of the SLGS program to create a cost-free option.




(d) *How do I change a subscription?* You can change a subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time, on the issue date. Changes to a subscription are acceptable with the following exceptions:


(1) You cannot change the issue date; provided, however, you may change the issue date up to 7 days after the original issue date if you establish to the satisfaction of Treasury that such change is required as a result of circumstances that were unforeseen at the time of the subscription and are beyond the issuer's control (for example, a natural disaster);


(2) You cannot change the principal amount originally specified for any security in the subscription by more than ten percent;


(3) You cannot change an interest rate to exceed the maximum interest rate in the SLGS rate table that was in effect for a security of comparable maturity on the business day that you began the subscription process; and


(4) You cannot change the maturity date originally specified for any security in the subscription by more than 30 days for certificates of indebtedness, 6 months for notes, and 1 year for bonds.


(e) *How do I complete the subscription process?* The completed subscription must:


(1) Be dated and submitted electronically by an official authorized to make the purchase;


(2) Separately itemize securities specifying principal amount, maturity date, interest rate, and first interest payment date (in the case of notes and bonds) for each;


(3) Describe the bond issue. If the tax-advantaged bond issue referenced in paragraph (b)(4) of this section is, or will be, registered or disclosed in the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board's (MSRB) Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA®) system, describe the issue exactly as designated in the “issue description” field of EMMA®, or successor system;


(4) Include the issuer's address;


(5) Include information on the financial institution that will transmit the funds for the purchase of the securities and information on the financial institution that will receive security principal and interest payments;


(6) Not be more than ten percent above or below the aggregate principal amount originally specified in the subscription and not be more than ten percent above or below the originally subscribed for amount for each individual security;


(7) Not deviate from the original subscribed for maturity date specified for any security in the subscription by more than 30 days for certificates of indebtedness, 6 months for notes, and 1 year for bonds;


(8) Include the information required under paragraph (b) of this section, if not already provided; and


(9) Include the certifications required by § 344.2(e).


(f) *When must I complete the subscription?* We must receive a completed subscription on or before 3 p.m. Eastern time on the issue date.



---

[N] [70 FR 37911, June 30, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 15449, Mar. 4, 2024]










