# § 700.331   Application for life estate leases.

The following standards and procedures shall govern the application for life estate leases:


(a) *Filing of application.* Applications for life estate leases shall be filed at the Commission's office in Flagstaff, AZ, not later than July 1, 1981, unless extended for good cause. Application should be made on an approved Commission form known as “Application for Life Estate Lease” and should contain the following information:


(1) Name, address, birthdate, social security number, census number, spouse, and date of marriage, if married. The head of household who applies for a life estate lease shall be known as the “applicant”.


(2) Applicant's Quad Map location in the Former Joint Use Area.


(3) Information listing any other places of Applicant's residence since December 22, 1974. 


(4) Name, birthdate, census number, and social security number, if any, of the applicant's minor dependent children. 


(5) A statement by the applicant setting forth the nature of the applicant's disability, if any.


(6) Applications should be accompanied, wherever possible, with documentation such as Birth Certificates, Baptismal Records, Tribal Records, Family Census Cards, Marriage Certificates, Tax Returns, and such other documentation required by the Commission.


(b) *Extensions of time for filing of applications for life estate leases.* Extensions of time for filing of applications for life estate leases shall be governed by the following procedures:


(1) The Commission shall, on a case-by-case basis, determine whether good cause exists to warrent a time extension for the receipt of applications.


(2) Initial Commission determinations concerning the time extension for receipt of applications shall be made by the Certification Officer. Any extensions granted shall be in writing and shall state the length of the extensions and the reasons therefore.


(3) In no event shall an extension be granted for more than eighty-nine (89) days after July 1, 1981.


(4) In the event an extension of time is denied or an application is refused for filing, the Certification Officer shall state the reasons therefore and such determination shall be communicated to the applicant by certified letter or in person by Commission staff.


(5) All persons aggrieved by initial Commission determination may have a hearing to present evidence and argument concerning the determination. Such hearings shall be requested and governed by the Commission's Hearings and Administrative Review Procedures contained in § 700.8 of the Commission's Operations and Relocation Procedures.


(6) For purpose of this subsection, “good cause” shall be defined as follows:


(i) Lack of actual notice.


(ii) Lack of transportation or physical incapacity preventing timely filing.


(iii) Acts of God.


(iv) Such other facts or reasons deemed sufficient in the discretion of the Commission.




