# ยง 300.112   Vessel monitoring system.

(a) *Requirement for use.* Within 30 days after NMFS publishes in the _Federal Register_ a list of approved EMTUs and associated communications service providers for the AMLR fishery, an owner or operator of a vessel that has been issued a vessel permit under ยง 300.107 must ensure that such vessel has a NMFS-type-approved, operating EMTU installed and continuously operating for the duration of any fishing trip involving the harvesting of AMLR.


(b) *Installing and activating the EMTU.* Only EMTUs that have been approved by NMFS for use in the AMLR fishery may be used. The vessel owner or operator shall obtain and have installed on the fishing vessel, by a qualified marine electrician and in accordance with any instructions provided by the VMS Helpdesk or OLE, a NMFS type-approved EMTU.


(c) *Interference with the EMTU.* No person may interfere with, tamper with, alter, damage, disable, or impede the operation of the EMTU, or attempt any of the same.


(d) *Interruption of operation of the VMS.* When a vessel's EMTU is not operating properly, the owner or operator must immediately contact OLE, and follow instructions from that office. If notified by NMFS that a vessel's EMTU is not operating properly, the owner and operator must follow instructions from that office. In either event, such instructions may include, but are not limited to, manually communicating to a location designated by NMFS the vessel's positions or returning to port until the EMTU is operable.


(e) *Access to data.* OLE is authorized to receive and relay transmissions from the EMTU. OLE will share a vessel's position data obtained from the EMTU, if requested, with other NMFS offices, the USCG, and their authorized officers and designees.


(f) *Installation and operation of the VMS.* NMFS has authority over the installation and operation of the EMTU. NMFS may authorize the connection or order the disconnection of additional equipment, including a computer, to any EMTU when deemed appropriate by NMFS.








