# § 49.155   Permit requirements.

This section applies to your permit if you are subject to this program under § 49.153(a) for construction of a new minor source, synthetic minor source or a modification at an existing source.


(a) *What information must my permit include?* Your permit must include the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) *General requirements.* The permit must include the following elements:


(i) The effective date of the permit and the date by which you must commence construction in order for your permit to remain valid (*i.e.,* 18 months after the permit effective date).


(ii) The emissions units subject to the permit and their associated emission limitations.


(iii) Monitoring, recordkeeping, reporting and testing requirements to assure compliance with the emission limitations.


(2) *Emission limitations.* The permit must include the emission limitations determined by the reviewing authority under § 49.154(c) for each affected emissions unit. In addition, the permit must include an annual allowable emissions limit for each affected emissions unit and for each regulated NSR pollutant emitted by the unit if the unit is issued an enforceable emission limitation lower than the potential to emit of that unit.


(3) *Monitoring requirements.* The permit must include monitoring requirements sufficient to assure compliance with the emission limitations and annual allowable emissions limits that apply to the affected emissions units at your source. The reviewing authority may require, as appropriate, any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Any emissions monitoring, including analysis procedures, test methods, periodic testing, instrumental monitoring and non-instrumental monitoring. Such monitoring requirements shall assure use of test methods, units, averaging periods and other statistical conventions consistent with the required emission limitations.


(ii) As necessary, requirements concerning the use, maintenance and installation of monitoring equipment or methods.


(4) *Recordkeeping requirements.* The permit must include recordkeeping requirements sufficient to assure compliance with the emission limitations and monitoring requirements and it must require the elements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Records of required monitoring information that include the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, as appropriate.


(A) The location, date and time of sampling or measurements.


(B) The date(s) analyses were performed.


(C) The company or entity that performed the analyses.


(D) The analytical techniques or methods used.


(E) The results of such analyses.


(F) The operating conditions existing at the time of sampling or measurement.


(ii) Retention for 5 years of records of all required monitoring data and support information for the monitoring sample, measurement, report or application. Support information may include all calibration and maintenance records, all original strip-chart recordings or digital records for continuous monitoring instrumentation and copies of all reports required by the permit.


(5) *Reporting requirements.* The permit must include the reporting requirements in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Annual submittal of reports of monitoring required under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, including the type and frequency of monitoring and a summary of results obtained by monitoring.


(ii) Prompt reporting of deviations from permit requirements, including those attributable to upset conditions as defined in the permit, the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventive measures taken. Within the permit, the reviewing authority must define “prompt” in relation to the degree and type of deviation likely to occur and the applicable emission limitations.


(6) *Severability clause.* The permit must include a severability clause to ensure the continued validity of the other portions of the permit in the event of a challenge to a portion of the permit.


(7) *Additional provisions.* The permit must also contain provisions stating the requirements in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(i) You, as the permittee, must comply with all conditions of your permit, including emission limitations that apply to the affected emissions units at your source. Noncompliance with any permit term or condition is a violation of the permit and may constitute a violation of the Act and is grounds for enforcement action and for a permit termination or revocation.


(ii) Your permitted source must not cause or contribute to a NAAQS violation or in an attainment area, must not cause or contribute to a PSD increment violation.


(iii) It is not a defense for you, as the permittee, in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.


(iv) The permit may be revised, reopened, revoked and reissued or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by you, as the permittee, for a permit revision, revocation and re-issuance or termination or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit condition.


(v) The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort or any exclusive privilege.


(vi) You, as the permittee, shall furnish to the reviewing authority, within a reasonable time, any information that the reviewing authority may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for revising, revoking and reissuing or terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit. For any such information claimed to be confidential, you must also submit a claim of confidentiality in accordance with part 2, subpart B of this chapter.


(vii) Upon presentation of proper credentials, you, as the permittee, must allow a representative of the reviewing authority to:


(A) Enter upon your premises where a source is located or emissions-related activity is conducted or where records are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit;


(B) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit;


(C) Inspect, during normal business hours or while the source is in operation, any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and air pollution control equipment), practices or operations regulated or required under the permit;


(D) Sample or monitor, at reasonable times, substances or parameters for the purpose of assuring compliance with the permit or other applicable requirements and


(E) Record any inspection by use of written, electronic, magnetic and photographic media.


(b) *Can my permit become invalid?* Your permit becomes invalid if you do not commence construction within 18 months after the effective date of your permit, if you discontinue construction for a period of 18 months or more or if you do not complete construction within a reasonable time. The reviewing authority may extend the 18-month period upon a satisfactory showing that an extension is justified. This provision does not apply to the time period between construction of the approved phases of a phased construction project; you must commence construction of each such phase within 18 months of the projected and approved commencement date.




