# § 1726.402   Equipment contract closeout.

This section is applicable to contracts executed on RUS Form 198.


(a) *Final inspection and testing of equipment.* The borrower (acting through its engineer, if applicable) will perform the final inspection and testing of equipment as appropriate for the specific equipment. The borrower (acting through its engineer, if applicable) will schedule such inspection and testing at a time mutually agreeable to the borrower, engineer, and the supplier or manufacturer. Within thirty (30) days after completion of the inspection and testing, the borrower (acting through its engineer, if applicable) will prepare a report of the inspection and testing, obtain a copy of the report from the engineer, and submit a copy to the supplier or manufacturer. This report must include a detailed description of the methods of conducting the test(s), observed data, comparison of guaranteed and actual performance, and recommendations concerning acceptance. The borrower will obtain from the engineer a written certification stating that the equipment has been installed, placed in satisfactory operation and tested, and meets the contract requirements. Where more than one-hundred and eighty (180) days have elapsed since the delivery of the equipment and the equipment has not been installed or tested, the contract may be closed out upon certification by the engineer that the equipment has been inspected and appears to be in accordance with the contract requirements.


(b) *Closeout documents.* (1) The borrower (acting through its engineer, if applicable) will obtain the following executed documents:


(i) Certification by the project engineer in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(ii) All guarantees or warranties.


(iii) A “Buy American” certificate, RUS Form 213, from the supplier or manufacturer.


(2) Closeout documents for materials contracts need not be submitted to RUS unless specifically requested by RUS.


(c) *Final payment.* Upon completion of the actions required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the borrower will make final payment to the supplier or manufacturer in accordance with the provisions of the equipment contract.




