# § 1.1464-1   Refunds or credits.

(a) *In general.* The refund or credit under chapter 65 of the Code of an overpayment of tax which has actually been withheld at the source under chapter 3 of the Code shall be made to the taxpayer from whose income the amount of such tax was in fact withheld. To the extent that the overpayment under chapter 3 was not in fact withheld at the source, but was paid, by the withholding agent the refund or credit under chapter 65 of the overpayment shall be made to the withholding agent. Thus, where a debtor corporation assumes liability pursuant to its tax-free covenant for the tax required to be withheld under chapter 3 upon interest and pays the tax in behalf of its bondholder, and it can be shown that the bondholder is not in fact liable for any tax, the overpayment of tax shall be credited or refunded to the withholding agent in accordance with chapter 65 since the tax was not actually deducted and withheld from the interest paid to the bondholder. In further illustration, where a withholding agent who is required by chapter 3 to withhold $300 tax from rents paid to a nonresident alien individual mistakenly withholds $320 and mistakenly pays $350 as internal revenue tax, the amount of $30 shall be credited or refunded to the withholding agent in accordance with chapter 65 and the amount of $20 shall be credited or refunded in accordance with such chapter to the person from whose income such amount has been withheld. With respect to section 1446(a), this section applies only to a publicly traded partnership or nominee described in § 1.1446-4 and, with respect to section 1446(f), only to a publicly traded partnership or broker described in § 1.1446(f)-4.


(b) *Tax repaid to payee.* For purposes of this section and § 1.6414-1, any amount of tax withheld under chapter 3 of the Code, which, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of § 1.1461-2, is repaid by the withholding agent to the person from whose income such amount was erroneously withheld shall be considered as tax which, within the meaning of sections 1464 and 6414, was not actually withheld by the withholding agent.


(c) *Applicability date.* The last sentence of paragraph (a) of this section applies to nominees and publicly traded partnerships described in § 1.1446-4 for partnership taxable years beginning after April 29, 2008, and to brokers required to withhold and publicly traded partnerships liable for underwithholding under § 1.1446(f)-4 on transfers that occur on or after January 1, 2022.



---

[N] [T.D. 6922, 32 FR 8713, June 17, 1967, as amended by T.D. 8804, 63 FR 72188, Dec. 31, 1998; T.D. 9394, 73 FR 23085, Apr. 29, 2008; 74 FR 14932, Apr. 2, 2009; T.D. 9926, 85 FR 76946, Nov. 30, 2020]




