# ยง 1572.501   Fee collection.

(a) *When fee must be paid.* When an applicant submits the information and fingerprints required under 49 CFR part 1572 to obtain or renew a TWIC, the fee must be remitted to TSA or its agent in accordance with the requirements of this section. Applications submitted in accordance with 49 CFR part 1572 will be processed only upon receipt of all required fees under this section.


(b) *Standard TWIC Fees.* The fee to obtain or renew a TWIC, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, includes the following segments:


(1) The Enrollment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to enroll applicants.


(2) The Full Card Production/Security Threat Assessment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to conduct a security threat assessment and produce the TWIC.


(3) The FBI Segment Fee covers the costs for the FBI to process fingerprint identification records, and is the amount collected by the FBI under Pub. L. 101-515. If the FBI amends this fee, TSA or its agent will collect the amended fee.


(c) *Reduced TWIC Fee.* The fee to obtain a TWIC when the applicant has undergone a comparable threat assessment in connection with an HME, FAST card, other threat assessment deemed to be comparable under 49 CFR 1572.5(e) or holds a Merchant Mariner Document or Merchant Mariner License is made up of the total of the following segments:


(1) The Enrollment Segment Fee covers the costs for TSA or its agent to enroll applicants.


(2) The Reduced Card Production/Security Threat Assessment Segment covers the costs for TSA to conduct a portion of the security threat assessment and issue a TWIC.


(d) *Card Replacement Fee.* The Card Replacement Fee covers the costs for TSA to replace a TWIC when a TWIC holder reports that his/her TWIC has been lost, stolen, or damaged.


(e) *Form of fee.* The TSA vendor will collect the fee required to obtain or renew a TWIC and will determine the method of acceptable payment, subject to approval by TSA.


(f) *Refunds.* TSA will not issue any refunds of fees required under this section.


(g) *Imposition of fees.* TSA routinely establishes and collects fees to conduct the security threat assessment and credentialing process. These fees apply to all entities requesting a security threat assessment and/or credential. The fees described in this section for an individual who applies to obtain, renew, or replace a TWIC under 49 CFR part 1572, shall be published as a Notice in the _Federal Register._ TSA reviews the amount of these fees periodically, at least once every two years, to determine the current cost of conducting security threat assessments. Fee amounts and any necessary revisions to the fee amounts shall be determined by current costs, using a method of analysis consistent with widely-accepted accounting principles and practices, and calculated in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 9701 and other applicable Federal law.



---

[N] [72 FR 3595, Jan. 25, 2007, as amended at 72 FR 55049, Sept. 28, 2007; 78 FR 24359, Apr. 25, 2013] 




