# § 770.7   Third-party certification.

(a) *EPA TSCA Title VI Product ABs.* To participate in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB, a Product AB must have the qualifications described in this section, submit an application and enter into a recognition agreement with EPA as described in this section, and, upon recognition from EPA, impartially perform the responsibilities described in this section.


(1) *Qualifications.* To qualify for recognition by EPA in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB, an applicant Product AB must:


(i) Be a signatory to the International Accreditation Forum, Inc.'s (IAF) Multilateral Recognition Arrangement (MLA) through level three, or have membership in one of the IAF recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA;


(ii) Be in conformance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99); and


(iii) Be competent to perform accreditation activities for product certification according to ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99).


(2) *Application.* To be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program, a Product AB must submit an application to EPA in accordance with § 770.8 that contains the following:


(i) Name, address, telephone number, and email address of the organization or primary contact;


(ii) Documentation of IAF MLA signatory status, membership in one of the IAF recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA;


(iii) Description of any other qualifications related to the Product AB's experience in performing product accreditation of TPCs for manufactured products including an affirmation that assessors will be technically competent to assess a TPC's ability to perform their activities under paragraph (c)(4) of this section; and


(iv) If not a domestic entity, name and address of an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on the AB or any of its officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part. ABs may share an agent for service.


(3) *Recognition agreement.* To be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program, a Product AB must enter into a recognition agreement with EPA that describes the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB's responsibilities under this subpart.


(i) Each recognition agreement will be valid for three years.


(ii) Each recognition agreement will identify an EPA Recognition Agreement Implementation Officer and an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB Implementation Officer that will serve as the point of contact for the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program.


(iii) To renew a recognition agreement for an additional three-year period, the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must submit an application for renewal in accordance with § 770.8 before the three-year period of the recognition agreement lapses. The application must indicate any changes from the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB's initial application or most recent renewal application.


(iv) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB fails to submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, its recognition will lapse and the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB may not provide accreditation services under TSCA Title VI.


(v) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB does submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, it may continue to provide TSCA Title VI accreditation services under the terms of its previous recognition agreement until EPA has taken action on its application for renewal of the recognition agreement.


(4) *Impartiality.* EPA TSCA Title VI Product ABs must act impartially when performing activities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program. To demonstrate impartiality, Product ABs must:


(i) Ensure that an accreditation decision regarding a TPC is made by persons different from those who conducted the assessment of the TPC; and


(ii) Ensure that the AB's personnel who assess TPCs or make decisions regarding accreditation do not receive financial benefit from the outcome of an accreditation decision.


(5) *Responsibilities.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB has the following responsibilities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:


(i) *Accreditation.* EPA TSCA Title VI Product ABs must determine the accreditation eligibility, and accredit if appropriate, each TPC seeking recognition under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program by performing an assessment of each TPC as described in this section. The assessment must include all of the following components:




(A) An on-site assessment by the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB to determine whether the TPC meets the requirements of ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E), is in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) as required under ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) section 6.2.1 and section 6.2.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC requirements under this part. In performing the on-site assessment, the EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must:






(*1*) Develop a checklist of the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC requirements under paragraph (c)(4) of this section and the key accreditation elements of ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99); and


(*2*) Use the checklist for each on-site assessment.


(B) A review of the approach that the TPC will use to verify the accuracy of the formaldehyde emissions tests conducted by the TPC laboratory and the formaldehyde quality control tests conducted by or for the panel producers producing composite wood products that are subject to the requirements of TSCA Title VI.


(C) A review of the approach that the TPC will use for evaluating a panel producer's quality assurance and quality control processes, the proficiency of the panel producer's quality assurance and quality control personnel, the required elements of a panel producer's quality assurance and quality control manual, and sufficiency of on-site testing facilities as applicable.


(D) A review of the approach that the TPC laboratory will use for establishing correlation or equivalence between ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14, if used, (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or allowable formaldehyde test methods listed under § 770.20.


(E) A review of the approach that the TPC will use for evaluating the process for sample selection, handling, and shipping procedures that the panel producer will use for quality control testing as applicable.


(F) A review of the accreditation credentials of the TPC laboratory, including a verification that the laboratory has been accredited to ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) with a scope of accreditation to include this part—Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products and the formaldehyde test methods ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14, if used, by an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99).


(ii) *Reassessment.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) section 7.9 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), conduct an on-site reassessment or surveillance on-site assessment at least every two years of each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC that the AB has accredited.


(iii) *Suspension, reduction, withdrawal.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must suspend, reduce, or withdraw the accreditation of an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC that the AB has accredited when circumstances warrant.


(iv) *Notifications.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, the following notifications to EPA, as applicable:


(A) Notification of the loss of its status as a signatory to the IAF MLA, or loss of membership in one of the IAF recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA must be provided within five calendar days of the date that the body receives notification of the loss of its signatory or membership status.


(B) Notification that an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC has failed to comply with any provision of this part must be provided within 72 hours of the time the Product AB identifies the deficiency. The notice must include a description of the steps taken to address the deficiency.


(C) Notification of suspension, reduction or withdrawal of an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC's accreditation must be provided within 72 hours of the time that the suspension, reduction or withdrawal takes effect.


(D) Notification of a change in a non-domestic Product AB's agent for service must be provided within five calendar days.


(v) *Records.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must maintain, in electronic form, the checklists and other records documenting compliance with the requirements for assessment, reassessment, and surveillance on-site assessments of EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs for three years.


(vi) *Annual report.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, an annual report on or before March 1st of each year for the AB services performed during the previous calendar year including the number and locations of assessment, reassessment, and surveillance on-site assessments performed for each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(vii) *EPA meetings.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must meet with EPA at least once every two years in person, via teleconference, or through other virtual methods to discuss the implementation of the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program.


(viii) *Inspections.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB must allow inspections of the AB's facilities by EPA, at reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials and a written notification to the AB.


(b) *EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory ABs.* To participate in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB, a Laboratory AB must have the qualifications described in this section, submit an application and enter into a recognition agreement with EPA as described in this section, and, upon recognition from EPA, impartially perform the responsibilities described in this section.


(1) *Qualifications.* To qualify for recognition by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB, an applicant Laboratory AB must:


(i) Be a signatory to the International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC) Mutual Recognition Arrangement (MRA), or have membership in one of the ILAC recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA;


(ii) Be in conformance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99);


(iii) Be competent to perform accreditation activities for laboratory accreditation according to ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99); and


(iv) Be competent to ensure EPA TSCA Title VI TPC inspection activities are in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99).


(2) *Application.* To be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program, a Laboratory AB must submit an application to EPA, which may be submitted in conjunction with a Product AB application. For recognition, a Laboratory AB must submit an application in accordance with § 770.8 that contains the following:


(i) Name, address, telephone number, and email address of the organization or primary contact;


(ii) Documentation of ILAC MRA signatory status, membership in one of the ILAC recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA;


(iii) Description of any other qualifications related to the Laboratory AB's experience in performing laboratory accreditation and inspection certification of TPCs including an affirmation that assessors will be technically competent to assess TPCs ability to perform their activities under paragraph (c)(4) of this section; and


(iv) If not a domestic entity, name and address of an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on the AB or any of its officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part. ABs may share an agent for service.


(3) *Recognition agreement.* To be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program, a Laboratory AB must enter into a recognition agreement with EPA that describes the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB's responsibilities under this subpart.


(i) Each recognition agreement will be valid for three years.


(ii) Each recognition agreement will identify an EPA Recognition Agreement Implementation Officer and an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB Implementation Officer that will serve as the point of contact for the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program.


(iii) To renew a recognition agreement for an additional three-year period, the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must submit an application for renewal in accordance with § 770.8 before the three-year period of the recognition agreement lapses. The application must indicate any changes from the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB's initial application or most recent renewal application.


(iv) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB fails to submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, its recognition will lapse and the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB may not provide accreditation services under TSCA Title VI.


(v) If an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB does submit an application for renewal prior to the expiration of the previous recognition agreement, it may continue to provide TSCA Title VI accreditation services under the terms of its previous recognition agreement until EPA has taken action on its application for renewal of the recognition agreement.


(4) *Impartiality.* EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory ABs must act impartially when performing activities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program. To demonstrate impartiality, Laboratory ABs must:


(i) Ensure that an accreditation decision regarding a TPC is made by persons different from those who conducted the assessment of the TPC; and


(ii) Ensure that the AB's personnel who assess TPCs or make decisions regarding accreditation do not receive financial benefit from the outcome of an accreditation decision.


(5) *Responsibilities.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB has the following responsibilities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:


(i) *Accreditation.* EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory ABs must determine the accreditation eligibility, and accredit if appropriate, each TPC seeking recognition under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program by performing an assessment of each TPC. The assessment must include an on-site assessment by the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB to determine whether the laboratory meets the requirements of ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), is in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) and the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC requirements under this part including the formaldehyde test methods ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), if used. In performing the on-site assessment, the EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must:


(A) Develop a checklist of the TPC requirements under paragraph (c)(4) of this section and the key conformity elements of ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99); and


(B) Use the checklist for each on-site assessment.


(ii) *Reassessment.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17011:2017(E) section 7.9 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), conduct a follow-up reassessment or surveillance on-site assessment of each TPC laboratory that the AB has accredited.


(iii) *Proficiency.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must verify the accuracy of the formaldehyde emissions tests conducted by the TPC laboratory by ensuring the TPC laboratory participates in the CARB interlaboratory comparison for formaldehyde emissions when offered. In lieu of participation in the CARB interlaboratory comparison ensure that the TPC laboratory participates in an EPA-recognized proficiency testing program, if available.


(iv) *Suspension, reduction, withdrawal.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must suspend, reduce, or withdraw the accreditation of a TPC laboratory that the AB has accredited when circumstances warrant.


(v) *Notifications.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, the following notifications to EPA as applicable:


(A) Notification of the loss of its status as a signatory to the ILAC MRA, or loss of membership in one of the ILAC recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA, within five calendar days of the date that the body receives notice of the loss of its signatory or membership status.


(B) Notification that a TPC laboratory has failed to comply with any provision of this part within 72 hours of the time the Laboratory AB identifies the deficiency. The notice must include a description of the steps taken to address the deficiency.


(C) Notification of suspension, reduction or withdrawal of a TPC laboratory's accreditation within 72 hours of the time that the suspension, reduction or withdrawal takes effect.


(D) Notification of a change in a non-domestic Laboratory AB's agent for service within five calendar days.


(vi) *Records.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must maintain, in electronic form, the checklists and other records documenting compliance with the requirements for assessment, reassessment, and surveillance on-site assessments of TPC laboratories for three years.


(vii) *Annual report.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, an annual report to EPA on or before March 1st of each year for AB services performed during the previous calendar year including the number and locations of assessment, reassessment, and surveillance on-site assessments performed for each TPC laboratory.


(viii) *EPA meetings.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must meet with EPA at least once every two years in person, via teleconference, or through other virtual methods to discuss the implementation of the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program.


(ix) *Inspections.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB must allow inspections of the AB's facilities by EPA, at reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials and a written notification to the AB.


(c) *EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certifiers.* To participate in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, a TPC must be accredited by an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB, use a laboratory that is accredited by an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB, have the other qualifications described in this subsection, submit an application and be recognized by EPA, and, upon recognition from EPA, impartially perform the responsibilities described in this section. Alternatively, CARB-approved TPCs must meet the criteria for reciprocity in paragraph (d) of this section and comply with the requirements of this part in order to be recognized by EPA as an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(1) *Qualifications.* To qualify for recognition by EPA in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program as an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, an applicant TPC must:


(i) Be accredited by an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB to ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), with a scope of accreditation that includes include composite wood products and this part—Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products;


(ii) Be, or have a contract with a laboratory that is, accredited by an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB to ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) with a scope of accreditation to include this part—Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products—and the formaldehyde test methods ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14, if used (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99);




(iii) Have the ability to conduct inspections of composite wood products and properly train and supervise inspectors to inspect composite wood products in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) as required under ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) section 6.2.1 and section 6.2.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99);






(iv) Have demonstrated experience in the composite wood product industry with at least one type of composite wood product and indicated the specific product(s) the applicant intends to certify; and


(v) Have demonstrated experience in performing or verifying formaldehyde emissions testing on composite wood products, including experience with test method ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14, if used, (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), and experience evaluating correlation between test methods. Applicant TPCs that have demonstrated experience with test method ASTM D6007-14 only, must be contracting testing with a laboratory that has a large chamber and demonstrate its experience with ASTM E1333-14.


(2) *Application.* Before certifying any products under this part, a TPC must be recognized by EPA under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program. To be recognized by EPA, a TPC must submit an application in accordance with § 770.8 and renew that application every two years. The application must contain the following:


(i) Email address of the organization or primary contact, organization name, organization telephone number, and organization address;


(ii) Type of composite wood products that the applicant intends to certify;


(iii) A copy of the TPC's certificate of accreditation from an EPA TSCA Title VI Product AB to ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) with a scope of accreditation that includes composite wood products and this part—Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products;


(iv) A copy of the TPC laboratory's certificate of accreditation from an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB to ISO/IEC 17025:2017(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) with a scope of accreditation to include this part—Formaldehyde Standards for Composite Wood Products—and the formaldehyde test methods ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), if used;




(v) An affirmation of the TPC's ability to conduct inspections of composite wood products and properly train and supervise inspectors to inspect composite wood products in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) as required under ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) section 6.2.1 and section 6.2.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99);






(vi) A description of the TPC's experience in the composite wood product industry with at least one type of composite wood product and indicate the specific product(s) the applicant intends to certify;


(vii) A description of the TPC's experience in performing or verifying formaldehyde emissions testing on composite wood products;


(viii) A description of the TPC's experience with test method ASTM E1333-14 and/or ASTM D6007-14, if used, (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99), and experience evaluating correlation between test methods. Applicant TPCs that have experience with test method ASTM D6007-14 only, must be contracting testing with a laboratory that has a large chamber and describe its experience with ASTM E1333-14; and


(ix) If not a domestic entity, the name and address of an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on the TPC or any of its officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part. TPCs may share an agent for service.


(3) *Impartiality.* EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs must act impartially in accordance with their accreditation when performing activities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program. To demonstrate impartiality, TPCs must:


(i) Not also be, or have a financial interest in a panel producer, fabricator, laminated product producer, importer, designer, distributor or retailer of composite wood products;


(ii) Ensure that TPC management personnel and TPC personnel involved in the review and certification decision-making process for composite wood products are not involved in activities within the same or separate legal entity that may compromise the impartiality of its certification decision-making process, such as advocacy or consulting activities;


(iii) Ensure that TPC management personnel and TPC personnel of the same or separate legal entity involved in activities such as advocacy or consulting are not involved in the management of the certification body, the review, or the certification decisions; and


(iv) Ensure that TPC management personnel and TPC personnel certifying composite wood products sign a conflict of interest statement attesting that they will receive no financial benefit from the outcome of certification.


(4) *Responsibilities.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC has the following responsibilities under the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:


(i) *Certification.* EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs certify composite wood products that are produced in accordance with this part and that comply with the emission standards of TSCA Title VI and this part, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99). For each panel producer making composite wood products certified by the TPC, the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must:


(A) Verify that each panel producer has adequate quality assurance and quality control procedures and is complying with the applicable quality assurance and quality control requirements of this part;


(B) Verify each panel producer's quality control test results compared with test results from ASTM E1333-14 and ASTM D6007-14, if used, (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) by having the TPC laboratory conduct quarterly tests and evaluate test method equivalence and correlation as required under § 770.20;


(C) In consultation with the panel producer, establish quality control limits (QCLs) for formaldehyde emissions, and, if applicable, shipping quality control limits or other formaldehyde emission limits, for each panel producer and product type;


(D) Establish, for each panel producer, the process that will be used to determine if products are exceeding the applicable QCL;


(E) Provide its CARB or EPA TPC number to each panel producer for labeling and recordkeeping; and




(F) Inspect each panel producer, its products, and its records at least quarterly in conformance with ISO/IEC 17020:2012(E) as required under ISO/IEC 17065:2012(E) section 6.2.1 and section 6.2.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99).




(G) In the event a government entity has identified the existence of unsafe conditions (e.g., natural disasters, outbreaks, political unrest, epidemics, and pandemics) in the area of a composite wood product manufacturing panel producer that would prevent the required quarterly inspections from being conducted in-person on-site, a TPC may opt to perform a remote quarterly inspection in lieu of the in-person on-site inspection. Such a remote inspection may occur only during the period of the unsafe conditions. For such a remote inspection during the period of the unsafe conditions, the TPC must conduct a remote quarterly inspection via live remote technology (e.g., video/teleconference) operating as directed by the TPC to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(i)(F) of this section, and work with the panel producer quality control manager at that time to select, package, sign, and ship the TPC panels/samples for the quarterly test according to § 770.20(c). TPCs and panel producers must remain in close communication with each other to ensure any changes or developments that might affect the panel producer or product type certification are managed according to the TSCA Title VI regulations in this part. The standard practice for a TPC providing certification services for composite wood panel producers remains that a TPC conducts in-person quarterly inspections and sample collection, packaging, signature, and shipping for quality control testing.








(ii) *Laboratories.* For quarterly testing, each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must use only laboratories that have been accredited by an EPA TSCA Title VI Laboratory AB and that either participate in the CARB interlaboratory comparison for formaldehyde emissions when offered or in an EPA-recognized proficiency or interlaboratory program, if available.


(iii) *NAF and ULEF.* For panel producers that do not receive approval for NAF or ULEF third-party certification exemptions or ULEF reduced testing from CARB, EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs must review applications for NAF or ULEF third-party certification exemptions or ULEF reduced testing. Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must approve these applications within 90 calendar days of receipt if the panel producer demonstrates that the requirements for third-party certification exemption under § 770.17 or § 770.18 or reduced testing under § 770.18 are met.


(iv) *Reduced testing for medium-density fiberboard or fiberboard.* EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs must review applications from panel producers to reduce the number of quality control tests for particleboard and medium-density fiberboard, and approve these applications within 90 calendar days of receipt if the panel producer demonstrates that the requirements for reduced testing under § 770.20(b)(2)(ii) are met.


(v) *Notifications to EPA.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, the following notifications to EPA, as applicable:


(A) Notification of an approved or rejected application, including a renewal application, for a NAF or ULEF third-party certification exemption or ULEF reduced testing within five calendar days of the approval or rejection with copies of all approved applications forwarded to EPA within 30 calendar days of approval.


(B) Notification of an approved or rejected application, including a renewal application, for reduced testing for medium-density fiberboard or particleboard within five calendar days of the approval or rejection with copies of all approved applications forwarded to EPA within 30 calendar days of approval.


(C) Notification of a panel producer exceeding its established QCL for three consecutive quality control tests within 72 hours of the time that the TPC becomes aware of the third consecutive exceedance. The notice must include the product type, dates of the quality control tests that exceeded the QCL, quality control test results, ASTM E1333-14 (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) or ASTM D6007-14 method (incorporated by reference, see § 770.99) correlative equivalent values in accordance with § 770.20(d), the established QCL value(s) and the quality control method used.


(D) Notification of each failed quarterly test, that is any sample that exceeds the applicable formaldehyde emission standard in § 770.10, within 72 hours. Information in this notification is not eligible for treatment as confidential business information.


(E) Notification of a change in a non-domestic TPC's agent for service within five calendar days.


(F) Notification of a loss of accreditation or notification that the TPC has discontinued its participation in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program must be provided within 72 hours.


(vi) *Other notifications.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must provide the following notifications, if applicable:


(A) Notification of each failed quarterly test, that is any sample that exceeds the applicable formaldehyde emission standard in § 770.10, to the panel producer in writing within 72 hours. Information in this notification is not eligible for treatment as confidential business information.


(B) Notification of a loss of accreditation or notification that the TPC has discontinued its participation in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program within 72 hours to all panel producers for which it provides EPA TSCA Title VI certification services.


(C) Notification of any changes in personnel qualifications, procedures, or laboratories used, to the TPC's EPA TSCA Title VI ABs within 30 calendar days.


(vii) *Records.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must maintain, in electronic form, the following records for three years from the date the record is created, and provide them to EPA within 30 calendar days of a request from EPA:


(A) A list of panel producers and their respective products and product types, including type of resin systems used, that the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC has certified;


(B) Results of inspections and formaldehyde emissions tests conducted for and linked to each panel producer and product type;


(C) A list of laboratories used by the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC, as well as all test methods used, including test conditions and conditioning time, and quarterly test results;


(D) Methods and results for establishing test method correlations and equivalence;


(E) Documentation for NAF or ULEF third-party certification exemptions or ULEF reduced testing approvals, including the name of the panel producer, facility, products approved, type of resin systems used and dates of approval;


(F) Documentation of reduced testing approval for panel producers of medium-density fiberboard or particleboard, including the name of the panel producer, products approved and dates of approval; and


(G) A copy of the most recent assessment, reassessment, and/or surveillance on-site assessment report provided by its EPA TSCA Title VI ABs.


(viii) *Annual report.* Each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must provide, in accordance with § 770.8, an annual report on or before March 1st of each year for the TPC services performed during the previous calendar year. Quarterly test results, the test method, date of test, and product tested (including the product name or description and panel producer name) are not eligible for treatment as confidential business information. The report must contain all of the following elements, as applicable:




(A) The following information for each panel producer making composite wood products certified by the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC:






(*1*) Composite wood products that the EPA TSCA Title VI TPC has certified during the previous calendar year;


(*2*) Types of resin systems used for the composite wood products certified;




(*3*) Dates of quarterly inspections; for any inspection(s) conducted remotely in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(i)(G) of this section, the TPC must certify that a government entity identified the existence of unsafe conditions at the time of the inspection(s);






(*4*) For each quarterly test, the date, result, test method, and whether a contract laboratory was used;


(*5*) For each failed quarterly test, the product type, the volume of product affected, the results of recertification testing, and a description of the final disposition of the affected product, including how the non-complying lot was addressed;


(*6*) For each non-complying lot resulting from a failed quality control test, the test date, method, product type, volume of product affected, lot numbers, the results of retesting, and a description of the final disposition of the affected product, including how the non-complying lot was addressed; and


(*7*) Any corrective actions that resulted from quarterly tests and inspections.


(B) A list of laboratories and test methods used by the TPC, number and volume (cubic meters) of large and small chambers, date of equivalence determination and equivalence data.


(C) Any non-conformities identified by its EPA TSCA Title VI AB(s) and how they were addressed.


(D) The results compared with the mean of the interlaboratory comparison for all formaldehyde emissions interlaboratory comparison tests other than the CARB interlaboratory comparison or, if available, the results of an EPA-recognized proficiency testing program.


(ix) *Assessments and inspections.* Upon request, each EPA TSCA Title VI TPC must allow EPA representatives to:


(A) Accompany the TPC's staff during an assessment, reassessment or surveillance on-site assessment of the TPC by its AB(s); and


(B) Inspect the TPC's facilities, at reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner, upon the presentation of appropriate credentials and a written notification to the TPC.


(d) *Reciprocity for third-party certifiers approved by the California Air Resources Board (CARB)*—(1) *During transitional period.* The transitional period is defined as the period beginning on December 12, 2016 and ending on March 22, 2019. TPCs already approved by CARB and TPCs subsequently approved by CARB during the transitional period must apply for EPA recognition in accordance with § 770.8 before they can certify any products under this part. Once recognized by EPA, CARB-approved TPCs become EPA TSCA Title VI TPCs and may certify composite wood products under TSCA Title VI until March 22, 2019, as long as they:


(i) Remain approved by CARB; and


(ii) Comply with all aspects of this part other than the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) and (c)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section. This includes:


(A) Provide panel producers with the TPC number issued by CARB; and


(B) Provide the annual report required by paragraph (c)(4)(viii) of this section to CARB and EPA during the two-year transitional period.


(C) Provide notifications required by paragraph (c)(4)(v) to EPA.


(2) *After transition period.* (i) TPCs approved by CARB may continue to certify composite wood products under TSCA Title VI after the two-year transitional period if the TPC:


(A) Maintains its CARB approval;


(B) Complies with the requirements of this part;


(C) Submits to EPA, in accordance with § 770.8:


(*1*) Documentation from CARB that specifies eligibility for reciprocity; and


(*2*) A copy of the application submitted to CARB to be recognized as a TPC under the CARB ATCM.


(D) Receives EPA recognition as an EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(ii) EPA retains the authority to deny recognition of CARB-approved TPCs who seek recognition through reciprocity in the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program if EPA has information indicating that the TPC is not qualified.


(e) *Suspension, revocation or modification of recognition*—(1) *Third-party certifiers.* EPA may suspend, revoke or modify the recognition of a TPC, if the TPC:


(i) Fails to comply with any requirement of TSCA Title VI or this part;


(ii) Makes any false or misleading statements on its application, records, or reports; or


(iii) Makes substantial changes to personnel qualifications, procedures, or laboratories that make the TPC or TPC laboratory unable to comply with any applicable requirements of this part.


(2) *ABs.* EPA may suspend, revoke or modify the recognition of an AB if the AB:


(i) No longer maintains signatory status to the IAF MLA or ILAC MRA, membership in one of the IAF/ILAC recognized regional accreditation cooperations, or an equivalent organization as determined by EPA;


(ii) Fails to comply with any requirement of TSCA Title VI or this part;


(iii) Makes any false or misleading statements on its application, records, or reports; or


(iv) Makes substantial changes to personnel qualifications or procedures that make the AB, TPC and/or TPC laboratory unable to comply with any applicable requirements of this part.


(3) *Process for suspending, revoking or modifying recognition.* (i) Prior to taking action to suspend, revoke or modify recognition, EPA will notify the participant AB or the participant TPC in writing of the following:


(A) The legal and factual basis for the proposed suspension, revocation or modification;


(B) The anticipated commencement date and duration of the suspension, revocation or modification;


(C) Actions, if any, which the affected AB or TPC may take to avoid suspension, revocation or modification, or to receive recognition in the future; and


(D) The opportunity and method for requesting a hearing with EPA prior to final suspension, revocation or modification.


(ii) If the affected AB or TPC requests a hearing in writing to EPA within 30 calendar days of receipt of the notification, EPA will:


(A) Provide the affected AB or TPC an opportunity to offer written statements in response to EPA's assertions of the legal and factual basis for the proposed action; and


(B) Appoint an impartial EPA official as Presiding Officer to conduct the hearing. The Presiding Officer will:


(*1*) Conduct a fair, orderly, and impartial hearing within 90 calendar days of the request for a hearing;


(*2*) Consider all relevant evidence, explanations, comments, and arguments submitted; and


(*3*) Notify the affected AB or TPC in writing within calendar 90 days of completion of the hearing of his or her decision and order. Such an order is a final EPA action which may be subject to judicial review. The order must contain the basis, commencement date, and duration of the suspension, revocation or modification.


(iii) If EPA determines that the public health, interest, or welfare warrants immediate action to revoke the recognition of an AB or TPC prior to the opportunity for a hearing, it will notify the affected AB or TPC of its right to request a hearing on the immediate revocation within 15 calendar days of the revocation taking place and the procedures for the conduct of such a hearing.


(iv) Any notification, decision, or order issued by EPA under this section, any transcript or other verbatim record of oral testimony, and any documents filed by a certified individual or firm in a hearing under this section will be available to the public, except as otherwise provided by TSCA section 14. Any such hearing at which oral testimony is presented will be open to the public, except that the Presiding Officer may exclude the public to the extent necessary to allow presentation of information which may be entitled to confidential treatment under TSCA section 14.


(v) EPA will maintain a publicly available list of ABs on its Web site whose recognition has been suspended, revoked or modified, or reinstated and a publicly available list of TPCs whose recognition has been suspended, revoked, modified, or reinstated.


(vi) Unless the decision and order issued under paragraph (e)(3) of this section specify otherwise, an AB or a TPC whose recognition has been revoked must reapply for recognition in order to become recognized under this part again.


(vii) Unless the decision and order issued under paragraph (e)(3) of this section specify otherwise, an AB whose recognition has been revoked or a TPC whose recognition has been revoked, must immediately notify all TPCs or panel producers to which it provides TSCA Title VI accreditation or certification services of the revocation.


(f) *Effect of the loss of recognition or accreditation.* (1) If an AB is removed or withdraws from the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:


(i) For reasons other than fraud or providing false or misleading statements, and other than a reason that implicates a particular TPC in a violation of TSCA Title VI, TPCs accredited by that AB can continue to certify products under TSCA Title VI for 180 calendar days, after which the TPCs must be accredited again by another EPA TSCA Title VI AB and re-recognized by EPA.


(ii) Due to fraud or providing false or misleading statements with respect to a particular TPC, or for any other reason that implicates a particular TPC in a violation of TSCA Title VI, that TPC may not provide any TSCA Title VI certification services until it has been accredited again by another EPA TSCA Title VI AB and re-recognized by EPA.


(2) If a TPC loses its accreditation, or if TPC is removed or withdraws from the EPA TSCA Title VI Third-Party Certification Program:


(i) For reasons other than fraud or providing false or misleading statements, and other than a reason that implicates a particular panel producer in a violation of TSCA Title VI, the panel producers that used the TPC to certify their products must enlist another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC to certify their products within 90 calendar days. If the panel producer is not able to obtain the services of another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC within 90 days, the panel producer may request from EPA a 90 calendar day extension. During the time a panel producer is seeking a new TPC, it must continue to comply with all other requirements of TSCA Title VI, including quality control testing.


(ii) Due to fraud or providing false or misleading statements with respect to a particular panel producer, or for any other reason that implicates a particular panel producer in a violation of TSCA Title VI, that panel producer may not sell, supply, offer for sale, or manufacture composite wood products for sale in the United States until its composite wood products have been recertified by another EPA TSCA Title VI TPC.


(g) *Process for denying EPA TSCA Title VI recognition.* (1) Upon EPA denying a request for recognition of an AB or TPC, EPA will notify the AB or TPC in writing of the following:


(i) The legal and factual basis for the denial; and


(ii) Actions, if any, which the affected AB or TPC may take to receive recognition in the future.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 89724, Dec. 12, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 44537, Sept. 25, 2017; 83 FR 5346, Feb. 7, 2018; 84 FR 43524, Aug. 21, 2019; 88 FR 10476, Feb. 21, 2023]




