# § 1068.301   General provisions for importing engines/equipment.

(a) This subpart applies to you if you import into the United States engines or equipment subject to EPA emission standards or equipment containing engines subject to EPA emission standards.


(b) In general, engines/equipment that you import must be covered by a certificate of conformity unless they were built before emission standards started to apply. This subpart describes the limited cases where we allow importation of exempt or excluded engines/equipment. If an engine has an exemption from exhaust emission standards, you may import the equipment under the same exemption. Imported engines/equipment that are exempt or excluded must have a label as described in the specific exemption or exclusion. If the regulation does not include specific labeling requirements, apply a label meeting the requirements of § 1068.45 that identifies your corporate name and describes the basis for the exemption or exclusion.


(c) U.S. Customs and Border Protection may prevent you from importing engines or equipment if you do not meet the requirements of this subpart. In addition, U.S. Customs and Border Protection regulations may contain other requirements for engines/equipment imported into the United States (see 19 CFR Chapter I).


(d) Complete the appropriate EPA declaration before importing any engines or equipment. These forms may be submitted and stored electronically and are available on the Internet at *http://www.epa.gov/OTAQ/imports/* or by phone at 734-214-4100. Importers must keep these records for five years and make them available promptly upon request.


(e) The standard-setting part may define uncertified engines/equipment to be “new” upon importation, whether or not they have already been placed into service. This may affect how the provisions of this subpart apply for your engines/equipment. (See the definition of “new” and other relevant terms in the standard-setting part.)



---

[N] [73 FR 59344, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 74231, Oct. 25, 2016; 88 FR 4716, Jan. 24, 2023]




