# § 1010.209   Title and land use.

(a) *General information.* (1) State whether the developer has reserved the right to exchange or withdraw lots after a purchaser has signed a sales contract (*e.g.,* for prior sales, failure to pass credit check). If yes, indicate this authority and make reference to the applicable paragraph in the sales contract or other document.


(2) State whether there is a provision giving purchasers an option to exchange lots. If yes, indicate this and make reference to the applicable paragraph in the sales contract or other document.


(3) State whether the developer knows of any instruments not of record which, if recorded, would affect title to the subdivision. If yes, copies of these instruments shall be submitted, except that copies of unrecorded contracts for sales of lots in the subdivision need not be submitted.


(4)(i) Identify the Federal, State, and local agencies or similar organizations which have the authority to regulate or issue permits, approvals or licenses which may have a material effect on the developer's plans with respect to the proposed division of the land, and any existing or proposed facilities, common areas or improvements to the subdivision.


(ii) Describe or identify the land or facilities affected; the permit, approval or license required; and indicate whether the permit, approval or license has been obtained by the developer.


(iii) If no agency regulates the division of the land or issues any permits, approvals or licenses with respect to improvements, so state.


(iv) Answers must specifically cover the areas of environmental protection; environmental impact statements; and construction, dredging, bulkheading, etc. that affect bodies of water within or around the subdivision. Also include licenses or permits required by water resources boards, pollution control boards, river basin commissions, conservation agencies or similar organizations.


(5) State whether it is unlawful to sell lots prior to the final approval and recording of a plat map in the jurisdiction where the subdivision is located.


(b) *Title evidence.* (1) Submit title evidence that specifically states the status of the legal and equitable title to the land comprising the lots covered by the Statement of Record and any common areas or facilities disclosed in the Property Report. Title evidence need not be submitted for those common areas and facilities which are not owned by the developer.


(2) Acceptable title evidence shall be dated no earlier than 20 business days preceding the date of the filing of the Statement of Record with the Director. Previously issued title evidence may be updated to the date referred to in the preceding sentence by endorsements or attorneys' opinions of title.


(3) The developer shall amend the title evidence to reflect the change in status of title of any previously registered, reacquired lots unless their status is at least as marketable as they were when first offered for sale by the developer as registered lots.


(c) *Forms of acceptable title evidence.* (1) An original or a copy of a signed owner's or mortgagee's policy of title insurance, title commitment, certificate of title or similar instrument issued by a title company authorized by law to issue such instruments in the state in which the subdivision is located. Title evidence that limits insurance or negligence liability to amounts less than the market value of the subject land at the time of its acquisition by the subdivision owner is not acceptable;


(2) A legal opinion stating the condition of title, prepared and signed by an attorney at law experienced in the examination of titles and a member of the Bar in the state in which the property is located. The title opinion may be based on a Torrens land registration system certificate of title, or similar instrument, provided it meets all general title evidence requirements of this section and a copy of the registration certificate of title is submitted. Title opinions that limit negligence liability to amounts less than the market value of the subject land at the time of its acquisition by the subdivision owner are not acceptable.


(d) *Title searches.* The required evidence of the status of title shall be based on a search of all public records which may contain documents affecting title to the land or the developer's ability to deliver marketable title. The search must cover a period which is required or generally considered adequate for insuring marketability of title in the jurisdiction in which the subdivision is located. Such search shall include an examination of at least the documents listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. This search may be accomplished through the use of a title insurance company title plant, the information in which is based on current searches of the appropriate and necessary documents, including as a minimum those listed immediately above. For any attorney's title opinion based on Torrens certificates of title, the title search need only go beyond the original time of registration of the certificate of title for those types of encumbrances which were not conclusively settled by the proceedings at the time of such registration. In such cases, the required statement shall clearly reflect the documents and periods searched.


(1) The records of the recorder of deeds or similar authority;


(2) U.S. Internal Revenue Liens;


(3) The records of the circuit, probate, or other courts including Federal courts and bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings which have jurisdiction to affect the title to the land;


(4) The tax records;


(5) Financing statements filed pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code or similar law. If it is held that the financing statements do not affect the title of the land, include a statement of the legal authority for that opinion.


(e) *Items to be included in the title evidence.* The acceptable title evidence must include the following information, instruments and statements and need not be repeated or duplicated elsewhere in the Statement of Record.


(1) A legal description of the land on which the lots, common areas, and facilities covered by the title evidence are located. This legal description shall be adequate for conveying land in the jurisdiction in which the subdivision is located. If this legal description is based on a recorded plat, the lot numbers, recording place, book name, book number, and page number shall be stated in the description. If this legal description is given by metes and bounds, the title evidence shall include or be accompanied by a certified statement of the preparer of the title evidence, a licensed attorney, or an engineer or surveyor, indicating that all subject lots, common areas, and common facilities are encompassed within the metes and bounds description in the evidence. If at any time after the submission of the legal description required above, the description of the subject land is changed or found to be in error, a correcting amendment shall be made to the Statement of Record.


(2) The name of the person(s) or other legal entity(ies) holding fee title to the property described.


(3) The name of any person(s) or other legal entity(ies) holding a leasehold estate or other interest of record in the property described.


(4) A listing of any and all exceptions or objections to the title, estate or interest of the person(s) or legal entity(ies) referred to in paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section, including any encumbrances, easements, covenants, conditions, reservations, limitations or restrictions of record. Any reference to exceptions or objections to title shall include specific references to the instruments in the public records upon which they are based. When an objection or exception to title affects less than all of the property covered by this Statement of Record, the title evidence shall specifically note what portion of the property is so affected.


(5) Copies of all instruments in the public records specifically referred to in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. Abstracts of such instruments are acceptable if prepared by an attorney or professional or official abstractor qualified and authorized by law to prepare and certify such abstracts and if the abstracts contain a material portion of the recorded instruments sufficient to determine the nature and effect of such instruments. Also include copies of any release provisions, relating to encumbrances on the property described, which are not included in the documents otherwise required by this section.


(6) If an attorney's title opinion has been submitted pursuant to this section which has been based on a Torrens land registration certificate of title, submit a copy of such certificate.


(f) *Supplemental title information.* (1) If there is a holder of an ownership interest in the land other than the developer, submit a copy of any documentation which evidences the developers' authorization to develop and/or sell the land.


(2) Submit copies of any trust deeds, deeds in trust, escrow agreements or other instruments which purport to protect the purchaser in the event of default or bankruptcy by the developer on any instrument or instruments which create a blanket encumbrance upon the property unless they have been previously provided as part of “title evidence” submitted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.


(3)(i) Submit copies of all forms of contracts or agreements and notes to be used in selling or leasing lots. The contracts or agreements, including promissory notes, must contain the following language in boldface type (which must be distinguished from the type used for the rest of the contract) on the face or signature page above all signatures: “You have the option to cancel your contract or agreement of sale by notice to the seller until midnight of the seventh day following the signing of the contract or agreement. If you did not receive a Property Report prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, in advance of your signing the contract or agreement, the contract or agreement of sale may be cancelled at your option for two years from the date of signing.”


(ii) If the purchaser is entitled to a longer revocation period by operation of state law or the Act, that period becomes the Federal revocation period and the contract or agreement must reflect the requirements of the longer period, rather than the seven days. This language shall be consistent with that shown on the cover page (see § 1010.105).


(iii) The revocation provisions may not be limited or qualified in the contract or other document by requiring a specific type of notice or by requiring that notice be given at a specified place.


(iv) If it is represented that the developer will provide or complete roads or facilities for waters, sewer, gas, electric service or recreational amenities, the contract must contain a provision that the developer is obligated to provide or complete such roads, facilities and amenities.


(4) Submit copies of deeds and leases by which the developer will lease or convey title to the lots to purchasers or lessees.


(g) *Plat maps, environmental studies and restrictions*—(1) *Plat maps.* (i) In those jurisdictions where it is unlawful to sell lots prior to final approval and recording of the plat, and in those cases where a plat has been recorded, submit a copy of the recorded plat. This plat should be an exact copy of the recorded document. It should reflect the signatures of the approving authorities and bear a stamp or notation by the recorder of deeds, or similarly constituted officer, as to the recording data.


(ii) If the plat has not been approved by the local authorities nor recorded, and if it is not unlawful to sell lots prior to final approval and recording, submit a map which has been prepared to scale and which shows the proposed division of the land, the lot dimensions and their relation to proposed or existing streets and roads. The map shall contain sufficient engineering data to enable a surveyor to locate the lots.


(iii) Whether recorded or unrecorded, the plat or map should show:


(A) The dimensions of each lot, stated in the standard unit of measure acceptable for such purposes in the political subdivision where the land is located.


(B) A clear delineation of each of the lots and any common areas or facilities.


(C) Any encroachments or rights-of-way on, over, or under the land, or a notation of these items together with the identity of the lots affected.


(D) The courses, distances and monuments, natural or otherwise, of the land's boundaries; contiguous boundaries and identification or ownership of adjoining land and names of abutting streets, ways, etc.


(E) The location of the section or unit encompassing the lots in relationship to the larger tract, or tracts, in the subdivision.


(F) The delineation of any flood plains or flood control easements affecting any of the lots.


(iv) The plat, or map shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor or engineer.


(v) If all lots on each page of the plat are not included in the Statement of Record with which the plat or map is submitted, then the lots which are to be included in the Statement of Record shall be identified on the plat or map; a legend describing the method of identification shall be entered on the face of the plat or map and the number of lots so identified entered in the lower right hand corner of the plat map. The Director must be able to reconcile the totals of these numbers with the information given in §§ 1010.108 and 1010.208 of the Statement of Record and the title evidence.


(2) *Environmental impact study.* If the developer is aware of any environmental impact study which considers the effect of the subdivision on the environment, submit a summary of that study.


(3) *Restrictions or covenants.* Submit a copy of any recorded or proposed restrictions or covenants for the subdivision if not submitted elsewhere in this Statement of Record. A copy of these restrictions or covenants shall be delivered to a prospective purchaser upon request. A supply shall be maintained at whatever place or places as will be necessary to allow immediate delivery upon request.



---

[N] [76 FR 79489, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 29117, May 11, 2016]




