# § 675.26   FWS Federal share limitations.

(a)(1) The Federal share of FWS compensation paid to a student employed other than by a private for-profit organization, as described in § 675.23, may not exceed 75 percent unless the Secretary approves a higher share under paragraph (a)(2) or (d) of this section.


(2) The Federal share of the compensation paid to a student may exceed 75 percent, but may not exceed 90 percent, if—


(i) The student is employed at a private nonprofit organization or a Federal, State, or local public agency that—


(A) Is not a part of, and is not owned, operated, or controlled by, or under common ownership, operation, or control with, the institution;


(B) Is selected by the institution on an individual case-by-case basis;


(C) Would otherwise be unable to afford the costs of this employment; and


(ii) The number of students compensated under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is not more than 10 percent of the total number of students paid under the FWS Program at the institution.


(3) The Federal share of the compensation paid to a student employed by a private for-profit organization may not exceed 50 percent.


(4) An institution may not use FWS funds to pay a student after he or she has, in addition to other estimated financial assistance, earned $300 or more over his or her financial need.


(b) The institution may not include the following when determining the Federal share:


(1) Fringe benefits such as paid sick days, paid vacations, or paid holidays.


(2) The employer's share of social security, workers' compensation, retirement, or any other welfare or insurance program that the employer must pay on account of the student employee.


(c) If an institution receives more money under an employment agreement from an off-campus employer than required employer costs, its not-Federal share, and any share of administrative costs that the employer agreed to pay, the excess funds must be—


(1) Used to reduce the Federal share on a dollar-for-dollar basis;


(2) Held in trust for off-campus student employment next year; or


(3) Refunded to the off-campus employer.


(d) For each award year, the Secretary authorizes a Federal share of 100 percent of the compensation earned by a student under this part if—


(1) The work performed by the student is for the institution itself, for a Federal, State, or local public agency, or for a private nonprofit organization; and


(2)(i) The institution in which the student is enrolled—


(A) Is designated as an eligible institution under— 


(*1*) The Developing Hispanic-Serving Institutions Program (34 CFR part 606); 


(*2*) The Strengthening Institutions Program, American Indian Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Program, or Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-Serving Institutions Program (34 CFR part 607); 


(*3*) The Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities Program (34 CFR part 608); or 


(*4*) The Strengthening Historically Black Graduate Institutions Program (34 CFR part 609); and 


(B) Requests that increased Federal share as part of its regular FWS funding application for that year;


(ii) The student is employed as a reading tutor for preschool age children or children who are in elementary school;


(iii) The student is performing family literacy activities in a family literacy project that provides services to families with preschool age children or children who are in elementary school; 


(iv) The student is employed as a mathematics tutor for children who are in elementary school through the ninth grade; or


(v) The student is employed in community service activities and is performing civic education and participation activities in a project as defined in § 675.18(g)(4).



---

[N] [52 FR 45770, Dec. 1, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 61417, 61419, Nov. 30, 1994; 61 FR 60396, Nov. 27, 1996; 62 FR 63439, Nov. 28, 1997; 63 FR 52855, Oct. 1, 1998; 64 FR 58294, Oct. 28, 1999; 66 FR 34039, June 26, 2001; 71 FR 45698, Aug. 9, 2006; 74 FR 55950, Oct. 29, 2009]




