# ยง 1271.350   Reporting.

(a) *Adverse reaction reports.* (1) You must investigate any adverse reaction involving a communicable disease related to an HCT/P that you made available for distribution. You must report to FDA an adverse reaction involving a communicable disease if it:


(i) Is fatal;


(ii) Is life-threatening;


(iii) Results in permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to body structure; or


(iv) Necessitates medical or surgical intervention, including hospitalization.


(2) You must submit each report on a Form FDA-3500A to the address in paragraph (a)(5) of this section within 15 calendar days of initial receipt of the information.


(3) You must, as soon as practical, investigate all adverse reactions that are the subject of these 15-day reports and must submit followup reports within 15 calendar days of the receipt of new information or as requested by FDA. If additional information is not obtainable, a followup report may be required that describes briefly the steps taken to seek additional information and the reasons why it could not be obtained.


(4) You may obtain copies of the reporting form (FDA-3500A) from the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (see address in paragraph (a)(5) of this section). Electronic Form FDA-3500A may be obtained at *http://www.fda.gov/medwatch* or at *http://www.hhs.gov/forms.*

(5) You must submit two copies of each report described in this paragraph to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002. FDA may waive the requirement for the second copy in appropriate circumstances.


(b) *Reports of HCT/P deviations.* (1) You must investigate all HCT/P deviations related to a distributed HCT/P for which you performed a manufacturing step.


(2) You must report any such HCT/P deviation relating to the core CGTP requirements, if the HCT/P deviation occurred in your facility or in a facility that performed a manufacturing step for you under contract, agreement, or other arrangement. Each report must contain a description of the HCT/P deviation, information relevant to the event and the manufacture of the HCT/P involved, and information on all follow-up actions that have been or will be taken in response to the HCT/P deviation (e.g., recalls).


(3) You must report each such HCT/P deviation that relates to a core CGTP requirement on Form FDA 3486 within 45 days of the discovery of the event either electronically using the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research electronic Web-based application or by mail to the Food and Drug Administration, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Document Control Center, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 71, Rm. G112, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.



---

[N] [69 FR 68686, Nov. 24, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 18095, Apr. 3, 2015]




