# ยง 173.218   Fish meal or fish scrap.

(a) *Transportation by vessel.* (1) Except as provided in Column (7) of the HMT in ยง 172.101 of this subchapter, fish meal or fish scrap, containing at least 6%, but not more than 12% water, is authorized for transportation in packagings as follows:


(i) Burlap (jute) bag;


(ii) Multi-wall paper bag;


(iii) Polyethylene-lined burlap or paper bag;


(iv) Cargo tank;


(v) Portable tank;


(vi) Rail car; or


(vii) Freight container.


(2) The fish meal or fish scrap must contain at least 50 ppm (mg/kg) of ethoxyquin, 100 ppm (mg/kg) of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), or 250 ppm (mg/kg) of tocopherol-based antioxidant at the time of shipment. Stabilization of fish meal or fish scrap must occur at the time of production and the application must be within twelve months prior to shipment.


(b) *Transportation by air.* (1) Except as provided in Column (7) of the HMT in ยง 172.101 of this subchapter, fish meal or fish scrap, containing at least 6%, but not more than 12% water, is authorized for transportation in packagings as follows:


(i) The following combination packagings are authorized:


(A) *Outer packagings:* Steel drum: 1A1 or 1A2; Aluminum drum: 1B1 or 1B2; Metal drum other than steel or aluminum: 1N1 or 1N2; Fiber drum: 1G; Plastic drum: 1H1 or 1H2; Steel jerrican: 3A1 or 3A2; Plastic jerrican: 3H1 or 3H2; Aluminum jerrican: 3B1 or 3B2; Steel box: 4A; Aluminum box: 4B; Natural wood box: 4C1 or 4C2; Plywood box: 4D; Reconstituted wood box: 4F; Fiberboard box: 4G; Solid plastic box: 4H2; or Metal box other than steel or aluminum: 4N.


(B) *Inner packagings:* Glass, Fiber, Metal, or Plastic.


(ii) The following single packagings are authorized:


(A) Steel drum: 1A1 or 1A2; Aluminum drum: 1B1 or 1B2; Plywood drum with liner: 1D; Plastic drum: 1H1 or 1H2; Fiber drum with liner: 1G; Metal drum other than steel or aluminum: 1N1 or 1N2; Steel jerrican: 3A1 or 3A2; Plastic jerrican: 3H1 or 3H2; Aluminum jerrican: 3B1 or 3B2; Steel box: 4A; Aluminum box: 4B; Metal box other than steel or aluminum: 4N; Natural wood box with liner: 4C2; Plywood box with liner: 4D; Reconstituted wood box with liner: 4F; Fiberboard box with liner: 4G; Solid plastic box: 4H2; Bag, woven plastic: 5H3; Bag, plastic film: 5H4; Bag, textile: 5L3; Bag, paper, multiwall, water resistant: 5M2; Plastic receptacle in steel, aluminum, plywood, fiber or plastic drum: 6HA1, 6HB1, 6HD1, 6HG1 or 6HH1; Plastic receptacle in steel, aluminum, wood, plywood or fiberboard box: 6HA2, 6HB2, 6HC, 6HD2, 6HG2 or 6HH2; or Cylinders, as prescribed for any compressed gas, except for Specification 8 and 3HT.


(B) [Reserved]


(2) The fish meal or fish scrap must contain at least 50 ppm (mg/kg) of ethoxyquin, 100 ppm (mg/kg) of butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), or 250 ppm (mg/kg) of tocopherol-based antioxidant at the time of shipment. Stabilization of fish meal or fish scrap must occur at the time of production and the application must be within twelve months prior to shipment.



---

[N] [87 FR 44994, July 26, 2022]




