# § 1220.015   Pricing of materiel purchases, transfers, and dispositions.

(a)(1) *Purchased materiel.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, materiel purchased for use in NPSL operations shall be charged to NPSL operations at the price paid, after deduction of any discounts received. Should any purchased materiel be defective or returned to a vendor for other reasons, the credit shall be allocated to NPSL operations when received by the lessee in accordance with § 1220.011(c)(3). 


(2) *Transferred and disposal materiel.* An item of materiel, which is acquired by the lessee for use in NPSL operations by means other than purchase or disposed of by any means, shall be priced according to this subparagraph: 


(i) *Condition A (new) materiel.* (A) Tubular goods, except line pipe, shall be priced at the current market price in effect on date of movement on a minimum carload or barge load weight basis, regardless of quantity transferred, equalized to the lowest published price “free on board” (f.o.b.) railway receiving point or recognized barge terminal nearest the NPSL tract where such materiel is normally available. 


(B) *Line pipe.* (*1*) Movement of less than 30,000 pounds shall be priced at the current price in effect at date of movement, as listed by a reliable supply store nearest the NPSL tract where such materiel is normally available. 


(*2*) Movement of 30,000 pounds or more shall be priced under the provisions for tubular goods pricing in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section. 


(C) Other materiel shall be priced at the current price in effect at date of movement, as listed by a reliable supply store or f.o.b. railway receiving point nearest the NPSL tract where such materiel is normally available. 


(ii) *Condition B (good used) materiel.* Materiel in sound and serviceable condition and suitable for reuse without reconditioning: 


(A) Materiel transferred to the NPSL project area shall be priced at 75 percent of current Condition A price. 


(B) Materiel transferred from the NPSL project area shall be priced: 


(*1*) At 75 percent of current Condition A price, if the materiel was originally charged to NPSL operations as Condition A materiel, or 


(*2*) At 65 percent of current Condition A price, if the materiel was originally charged to NPSL operations as Condition B materiel at 75 percent of current Condition A price. 


(iii) *Conditions C and D (other used) materiel*—(A) *Condition C.* Materiel that is not in sound and serviceable condition and not suitable for its original function until after reconditioning shall be priced at 50 percent of current Condition A price. 


(B) *Condition D.* Materiel no longer suitable for its original purposes but suitable for some other purpose shall be priced on a basis commensurate with its use and comparable with that of materiel normally used for such other purpose. If the materiel has no alternative use it should be priced at prevailing prices as scrap. 


(iv) *Obsolete materiel.* Materiel that is serviceable and usable for its original function and has a value less than Condition A, B, or C materiel may be valued at a price agreed to by the Director. Such price should be the equivalent of the value of the service rendered by such materiel. 


(b) *Pricing conditions.* (1) Loading and unloading costs shall be charged at a rate of 15 cents per hundred weight, or such other rate as may be set by the ONRR Director, on all tubular goods movements, in lieu of loading/unloading costs sustained, when the actual hauling costs of such tubular goods is equalized under provisions of § 1220.011(d). 


(2) Materiel involving erection costs shall be charged at the applicable percentage of the current knocked-down price of new materiel. 


(c) When materiel subject to paragraphs (a)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section is transferred, the cost of reconditioning shall be borne by the receiving party. 



---

[N] [45 FR 36800, May 30, 1980, as amended at 75 FR 61087, Oct. 4, 2010]




