# § 30.29   Reporting of repairs and replacements.

These guidelines will govern the reporting of the following:


(a) The return of goods previously imported only for repair and alteration.


(1) The return of goods not licensed by a U.S. Government agency and not subject to the ITAR, temporarily imported for repair and alternation, and declared as such on importation shall have Schedule B number 9801.10.0000. The value shall only include parts and labor. The value of the original product shall not be included. If the value of the parts and labor is over $2,500, then EEI must be filed.


(2) The return of goods licensed by a U.S. Government agency or subject to the ITAR, temporarily imported for repair or alteration, and declared as such on importation shall have Schedule B number 9801.10.0000. In the value field, report the value of the parts and labor. In the license value field, report the value designated on the export license that corresponds to the commodity being exported if required by the licensing agency. EEI must be filed regardless of value.


(b) *Goods that are covered under warranty.* (1) Goods that are reexported after repair under warranty shall follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section as appropriate. It is recommended that the bill of lading, air waybill, or other loading documents include the statement, “This product was repaired under warranty.”


(2) Goods that are replaced under warranty at no charge to the customer shall include the statement, “Product replaced under warranty, value for EEI purposes” on the bill of lading, air waybill, or other commercial loading documents. Place the notation below the proof of filing citation, postdeparture filing citation, AES downtime filing citation, exemption or exclusion legend on the commercial loading documents. Report the Schedule B number or Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States Annotated (HTSUSA) commodity classification number of the replacement parts. For goods not licensed by a U.S. Government agency, report the value of the replacement parts in accordance with § 30.6(a)(17). For goods licensed by a U.S. Government agency, report the value and license value in accordance with § 30.6(a)(17) and § 30.6(b)(15) respectively.



---

[N] [73 FR 31555, June 2, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 16380, Mar. 14, 2013; 82 FR 18391, Apr. 19, 2017]




