# ยง 26.4   Other applicable rule parts.

Other FCC rule parts applicable to the Space Launch Services include the following:


(a) *Part 0.* Part 0 of this chapter describes the Commission's organization and delegations of authority. Part 0 also lists available Commission publications, standards, and procedures for access to Commission records, and location of Commission Field Offices.


(b) *Part 1.* Part 1 of this chapter includes rules of practice and procedure for license applications, adjudicatory proceedings, procedures for reconsideration and review of the Commission's actions; provisions concerning violation notices and forfeiture proceedings; competitive bidding procedures; and the environmental requirements that, together with the procedures specified in ยง 17.4(c) of this chapter, if applicable, must be complied with prior to the initiation of construction. Subpart F of part 1 includes the rules for the Wireless Radio Services and the procedures for filing electronically via the Universal Licensing System (ULS).


(c) *Part 2.* Part 2 of this chapter contains the Table of Frequency Allocations and special requirements in international regulations, recommendations, agreements, and treaties. Part 2 also contains standards and procedures concerning the marketing and importation of radio frequency devices, and for obtaining equipment authorization.


(d) *Part 5.* Part 5 of this chapter contains rules prescribing the manner in which parts of the radio frequency spectrum may be made available for experimentation.


(e) *Part 15.* Part 15 of this chapter sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to certain radio frequency devices.


(f) *Part 17.* Part 17 of this chapter contains requirements for the construction, marking and lighting of antenna towers, and the environmental notification process that must be completed before filing certain antenna structure registration applications.


(g) *Part 25.* Part 25 of this chapter contains the requirements for satellite communications, including satellite digital audio radio service (DARS).


(h) *Part 74.* Part 74 of this chapter sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to experimental radio, auxiliary, special broadcast, and other program distributional services.


(i) *Part 87.* Part 87 of this chapter sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to aviation services.






