# ยง 162.027-4   Approval procedures.

(a) Firehose nozzles designed, constructed, tested, and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1546 or NFPA 1964 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 162.027-2) are considered to be approved under the provisions of this chapter.




(b) Firehose nozzles designed, constructed, tested and marked in accordance with the provisions of this subpart in effect prior to June 24, 1996, are considered to be approved under the provisions of this chapter.


(c) A follow-up program must be established and maintained to ensure that no unauthorized changes have been made to the design or manufacture of type approved firehose nozzles. Acceptable follow-up programs include factory inspection programs administered by the accepted independent laboratory that performed the initial inspections and tests relied on by the type approval holder, or special configuration control programs implemented through a quality control flow chart and core procedures administered by the manufacturer and certified by an international standards agency such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).




(d) Applicants seeking type approval of firehose nozzles must submit:


(1) A cover letter requesting type approval of the equipment;


(2) A test report from the accepted independent laboratory showing compliance of the firehose nozzle with ASTM F 1546 or NFPA 1964;


(3) A copy of the contract for a follow-up program with the accepted independent laboratory or evidence of an ISO 9001 certified special configuration control program or similar program implemented through a quality control flow chart and core procedure; and


(4) Documentation of the firehose nozzle, including an exterior drawing, assembly drawing, components list, and bill of material.






(e) All documentation must be either mailed to Commandant (CG-ENG-4), United States Coast Guard, 2703 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue SE., Stop 7509, Washington, DC 20593-7509 or electronically submitted to *typeapproval@uscg.mil*.




(f) Upon evaluation of the submittal package and approval by the Commandant, a Coast Guard Certificate of Approval will be issued valid for 5 years so long as the follow-up program for the firehose nozzle is maintained.




(g) Upon application, a Certificate of Approval for a firehose nozzle may be renewed for successive 5-year periods without further testing so long as no changes have been made to the products, the follow-up program has been maintained, and no substitutions of or changes to the standards listed in ยง 162.027-2 have been made.





---

[N] [CGD 95-027, 61 FR 26009, May 23, 1996, as amended by USCG-1999-5151, 64 FR 67185, Dec. 1, 1999. Redesignated and amended by USCG-2012-0196, 81 FR 48277, July 22, 2016]












