# ยง 213.5   Filing and service of schedules and applications for approval of schedules; procedure thereon.

(a) *Number of copies and certificate of service.* An original and three copies of each schedule, and an original and seven (7) copies of application for approval of schedules (ยง 213.3(e)) shall be filed with the Department, each setting forth the names and addresses of the persons, if any, required to be served, and stating that service has been made on all such persons by personal service or by registered or certified mail (if the addressee is located within the United States, its territories and possessions) or by registered air mail (if the addressee is located outside the United States, its territories and possessions) and the date of such service. In the case of service by mail, the date of mailing shall be considered the date of service.


(b) *Pleadings by interested persons.* Any interested person may file and serve upon the foreign air carrier a memorandum in opposition to, or in support of, schedules or an application for approval of schedules within 10 days of the filing opposed or supported. All memoranda shall set forth in detail the reasons for the position taken together with a statement of economic data and other matters which it is desired that the Department officially notice, and affidavits stating other facts relied upon. Memoranda shall contain a certificate of service as prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section. An executed original and seven (7) true copies shall be filed with the Department's Docket Facility. Unless otherwise provided by the Department, further pleadings will not be entertained. 


(c) *Determination and petitions for reconsideration.* The Department may make its determination upon the application and other pleadings or, in its discretion, after hearing. Interested persons seeking reconsideration of the Department's determination on an application approval of schedules may file a petition pursuant to ยง 302.14 of this chapter (Rule 14 of part 302) within 10 days of Department action. Any interested person may file an answer in opposition to, or in support of, the petition within 10 days after it is filed. An executed original and 19 copies of such petition for reconsideration or memorandum shall be filed with the Docket Facility. All petitions for reconsideration shall contain a certificate of service in the form prescribed by paragraph (a) of this section. Unless ordered by the Department upon application or upon its own motion, further pleadings will not be entertained. 



---

[N] [ER-624, 35 FR 8881, June 9, 1970, as amended by ER-644, 35 FR 14382, Sept. 12, 1970; 61 FR 34725, July 3, 1996; 65 FR 6456, Feb. 9, 2000; DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15925, Apr. 16, 2019] 




