# § 82.4   Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.

(a)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce, at any time in any control period, (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. 


(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart. 


(b)(1) Effective January 1, 1996, for any Class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005 for any Class I, Group VI controlled substances, and effective August 18, 2003, for any Class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may produce, at any time in any control period (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of conferred unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of the amount of unexpended critical use allowances, or in excess of the amount of unexpended Article 5 allowances as allocated under § 82.9 and § 82.11, as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances) for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. 


(2) Effective January 1, 2005, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart, or it is solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period. 


(c)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce or (except for transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) import, at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production or importation (other than transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. 


(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart. 


(d) Effective January 1, 1996, for any class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005, for any class I, Group VI controlled substance, and effective August 18, 2003, for any class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may import (except for transhipments or heels), at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of unexpended critical use allowances, for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation (other than transhipments or heels) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the general laboratory exemption in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets. 


(e) Effective January 1, 1996, no person may place an order by conferring essential-use allowances for the production of the class I controlled substance, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Effective January 1, 1996, no person may import a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. No person may import or place an order for the production of a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, other than for the class I controlled substance(s) for which they received essential-use allowances under paragraph (u) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production ordered in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances conferred to the producer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Every kilogram of excess import in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances held at that time constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.


(f) [Reserved] 

(g) Effective January 1, 1996, the U.S. total production and importation of a class I controlled substance (except Group VI) as allocated under this section for essential-use allowances and exemptions, and as obtained under § 82.9 for destruction and transformation credits, may not, at any time, in any control period until January 1, 2000, exceed the percent limitation of baseline production in appendix H of this subpart, as set forth in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. No person shall cause or contribute to the U.S. exceedance of the national limit for that control period. 


(h) No person may sell in the U.S. any Class I controlled substance produced explicitly for export to an Article 5 country. 


(i) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a heel of any class I controlled substance that is greater than 10 percent of the volume of the container in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances, or unexpended destruction and transformation credits held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. 


(j)(1) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class I controlled substance, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing, without having received a non-objection notice from the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3). A person who receives a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity, in kilograms, of the used controlled substance cited in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of importation of used controlled substance in excess of the quantity cited in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3) constitutes a separate violation.


(2) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class I controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class I controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class I controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.


(k)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, a person may not use production allowances to produce a quantity of a class I controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances nor may a person use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class I controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances. However, prior to January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, only consumption allowances are required to import, with the exception of transhipments, heels, and used controlled substances. Effective January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, except Group VI, only essential use allowances or exemptions are required to import class I controlled substances, with the exception of transhipments, heels, used controlled substances, and essential use CFCs. 


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, effective January 1, 2003, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, consumption allowances are not required to import quantities solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart. 


(l) Every kilogram of a controlled substance, and every controlled product, imported or exported in contravention of this subpart constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. No person may:


(1) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group I or Group II, in appendix A to this subpart from or to any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol unless that foreign state is complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*);


(2) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group III, Group IV, or Group V, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the London Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the London Amendment (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*); or


(3) Import a controlled product, as noted in appendix D, annex 1 to this subpart, from any foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, unless that foreign state is complying with the 1987 Montreal Protocol (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*).


(4) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*).


(5) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VI, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Copenhagen Amendment unless that foreign state is complying with the Copenhagen Amendment (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*).


(6) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VIII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Beijing Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Beijing Amendment (For ratification status, see: *http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php*).


(m) Effective October 5, 1998, no person may export a controlled product to a Party listed in appendix J of this subpart in any control period after the control period in which EPA publishes a notice in the _Federal Register_ listing that Party in appendix J of this subpart. EPA will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ that lists a Party in appendix J if the Party formally presents to the U.S. a government document through its embassy in the United States stating that it has established a ban on the import of controlled products and a ban on the manufacture of those same controlled products.


(n) No person may use class I controlled substances produced or imported under the essential use exemption for any purpose other than those set forth in this paragraph. Effective January 1, 1996, essential-use allowances are apportioned to a person under § 82.8(a) and (b) for the exempted production or importation of specified class I controlled substances solely for the purposes listed in paragraphs (n)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(1) Essential-uses for the production or importation of controlled substances as agreed to by the Parties to the Protocol and subject to the periodic revision of the Parties are:


(i) Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000.


(ii) Space Shuttle—solvents.


(iii) Essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined in appendix G of this subpart).


(2) Any person acquiring unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption granted in § 82.8 to this subpart for use in anything other than an essential-use (*i.e.*, for uses other than those specifically listed in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substance produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and used for a non-essential use is a separate violation of this subpart. Any person selling unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption for uses other than an essential-use is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and sold for a use other than an essential-use is a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the exemption for laboratory and analytical uses in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets. 


(o) [Reserved]


(p) Critical Use Exemption: With respect to class I, Group VI substances (methyl bromide):


(1) No person shall sell critical use methyl bromide without first receiving a certification from the purchaser that the quantity purchased will be sold or used solely for an approved critical use. Every kilogram of critical use methyl bromide sold without first obtaining such certification constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.


(2) For approved critical users, each action associated with each 200 kilograms of critical use methyl bromide for the following subparagraphs constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.


(i) No person shall take possession of quantities of critical use methyl bromide or acquire fumigation services using quantities of critical use methyl bromide without first completing the appropriate certification in accordance with the requirements in § 82.13.


(ii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide may use such quantities for a use other than the specified critical use listed in column A and the specified location of use in column B of appendix L to this subpart.


(iii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for pre-plant uses, may use such quantities for other than the pre-plant uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.


(iv) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for post-harvest uses, may use such quantities for other than the post-harvest uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.


(v) No person who uses critical use methyl bromide on a specific field or structure may concurrently or subsequently use non-critical use methyl bromide on the same field or structure for the same use (as defined in column A and column B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption.


(vi) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide during the control period shall use that methyl bromide on a field or structure for which that person has used non-critical use methyl bromide for the same use (as defined in columns A and B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption, unless, subsequent to that person's use of the non-critical use methyl bromide, that person becomes subject to a prohibition on the use of methyl bromide alternatives due to the reaching of a local township limit described in appendix L of this part, or becomes an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking. 


(q) Emergency use exemption. [Reserved]


(r) No person may sell or use methyl bromide produced or imported under the quarantine and preshipment exemption for any purpose other than for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in § 82.3. Each kilogram of methyl bromide produced or imported under the authority of the quarantine and preshipment exemption and sold or used for a use other than quarantine or preshipment is a separate violation of this subpart.


(s) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class I substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (s) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.



---

[N] [60 FR 24986, May 10, 1995]


