# § 1632.2   Purpose, scope, and applicability.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) This standard prescribes requirements for testing of prototype designs of mattresses and mattress pads before the sale in commerce or the introduction in commerce of any mattress or mattress pad which is subject to the standard. The standard prescribes a test to determine the ignition resistance of a mattress or a mattress pad when exposed to a lighted cigarette.


(2) The standard sets forth a test at § 1632.6 which may be used to classify ticking materials for resistance to cigarette ignition.


(3) The standard sets forth a test at § 1632.7 which may be used to demonstrate that the substitution of tape edge materials will not reduce the ignition resistance of a mattress prototype or a mattress pad prototype.


(b) *Scope.* (1) All mattresses, as defined in § 1632.1(a), and all mattress pads, as defined in § 1632.1(b), manufactured or imported after the effective date of this amendment are subject to the requirements of the standard as amended.


(2) All mattresses, as defined in § 1632.1(a), and all mattress pads, as defined in § 1632.1(b), manufactured or imported after June 22, 1973, and before the effective date of this amendment are subject to those requirements of the Standard for the Flammability of Mattresses (and Mattress Pads) (16 CFR part 1632) which were in effect before the effective date of this amendment.


(3) Manufacturers or importers desiring to use the ticking substitution procedure provided in § 1632.6 may classify the ticking being used on each mattress prototype before or after the effective date of this amendment using the test procedure set forth in that section.


(4) One-of-a-kind mattresses and mattress pads may be excluded from testing under this standard in accordance with rules established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. (See § 1632.31(f): exemption for mattresses and mattress pads prescribed by a physician.)


(c) *Applicability.* (1) The requirements for prototype testing prescribed by this standard are applicable to each “manufacturer” (as that term is defined in § 1632.1(i)) of mattresses or mattress pads subject to the standard which are manufactured for sale in commerce. The requirements of this standard for prototype testing are also applicable to all other persons or firms initially introducing mattresses or mattress pads into commerce, including importers; each such firm shall be deemed to be a “manufacturer” for purposes of this standard.


(2) The test at § 1632.6 for classification of ticking materials may be used by manufacturers of mattresses or mattress pads and by manufacturers of ticking materials. The test at § 1632.7 may be used by manufacturers of mattresses to demonstrate that substitution of tape edge materials will not reduce ignition resistance of a mattress prototype or a mattress pad prototype. Use of the tests in §§ 1632.6 and 1632.7 is optional.




