# ยง 219.8   Sustainability.

A plan developed or revised under this part must provide for social, economic, and ecological sustainability within Forest Service authority and consistent with the inherent capability of the plan area, as follows:


(a) *Ecological sustainability.* (1) *Ecosystem Integrity.* The plan must include plan components, including standards or guidelines, to maintain or restore the ecological integrity of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and watersheds in the plan area, including plan components to maintain or restore structure, function, composition, and connectivity, taking into account:


(i) Interdependence of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in the plan area.


(ii) Contributions of the plan area to ecological conditions within the broader landscape influenced by the plan area.


(iii) Conditions in the broader landscape that may influence the sustainability of resources and ecosystems within the plan area.


(iv) System drivers, including dominant ecological processes, disturbance regimes, and stressors, such as natural succession, wildland fire, invasive species, and climate change; and the ability of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems on the plan area to adapt to change.


(v) Wildland fire and opportunities to restore fire adapted ecosystems.


(vi) Opportunities for landscape scale restoration.


(2) *Air, soil, and water.* The plan must include plan components, including standards or guidelines, to maintain or restore:


(i) Air quality.


(ii) Soils and soil productivity, including guidance to reduce soil erosion and sedimentation.


(iii) Water quality.


(iv) Water resources in the plan area, including lakes, streams, and wetlands; ground water; public water supplies; sole source aquifers; source water protection areas; and other sources of drinking water (including guidance to prevent or mitigate detrimental changes in quantity, quality, and availability).


(3) *Riparian areas.* (i) The plan must include plan components, including standards or guidelines, to maintain or restore the ecological integrity of riparian areas in the plan area, including plan components to maintain or restore structure, function, composition, and connectivity, taking into account:


(A) Water temperature and chemical composition;


(B) Blockages (uncharacteristic and characteristic) of water courses;


(C) Deposits of sediment;


(D) Aquatic and terrestrial habitats;


(E) Ecological connectivity;


(F) Restoration needs; and


(G) Floodplain values and risk of flood loss.


(ii) Plans must establish width(s) for riparian management zones around all lakes, perennial and intermittent streams, and open water wetlands, within which the plan components required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section will apply, giving special attention to land and vegetation for approximately 100 feet from the edges of all perennial streams and lakes.


(A) Riparian management zone width(s) may vary based on ecological or geomorphic factors or type of water body; and will apply unless replaced by a site-specific delineation of the riparian area.


(B) Plan components must ensure that no management practices causing detrimental changes in water temperature or chemical composition, blockages of water courses, or deposits of sediment that seriously and adversely affect water conditions or fish habitat shall be permitted within the riparian management zones or the site-specific delineated riparian areas.


(4) *Best management practices for water quality.* The Chief shall establish requirements for national best management practices for water quality in the Forest Service Directive System. Plan components must ensure implementation of these practices.


(b) *Social and economic sustainability.* The plan must include plan components, including standards or guidelines, to guide the plan area's contribution to social and economic sustainability, taking into account:


(1) Social, cultural, and economic conditions relevant to the area influenced by the plan;


(2) Sustainable recreation; including recreation settings, opportunities, and access; and scenic character;


(3) Multiple uses that contribute to local, regional, and national economies in a sustainable manner;


(4) Ecosystem services;


(5) Cultural and historic resources and uses; and


(6) Opportunities to connect people with nature.



---

[N] [77 FR 21260, Apr. 9, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 90737, Dec. 15, 2016]






