# § 309.15   What is a Tribal IV-D program application?

(a) *Initial application.* The initial application for funding under § 309.65(a) may be submitted at any time. The initial application must include:


(1) Standard Form (SF) 424, “Application for Federal Assistance;”


(2) SF 424A, “Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs,” including the following information:


(i) A quarter-by-quarter estimate of expenditures for the funding period; and


(ii) Notification of whether the Tribe or Tribal organization is requesting funds for indirect costs and if so, an election of a method under paragraph (a)(3) of this section to calculate estimated indirect costs; and




(iii) A narrative justification for each cost category on the form.


(3) If the Tribe or Tribal organization requests funding for indirect costs, estimated indirect costs may be submitted either by:


(i) Including documentation of the dollar amount of indirect costs allocable to the IV-D program; or


(ii) Submission of its current indirect cost rate negotiated with the Department of Interior and the estimated amount of indirect costs calculated using the negotiated cost rate.


(4) The Tribal IV-D plan. The initial application must include a comprehensive statement identifying how the Tribe or Tribal organization is meeting the requirements of subpart C of this part and that describes the capacity of the Tribe or Tribal organization to operate a IV-D program which meets the objectives of title IV-D of the Act, including establishment of paternity, establishment, modification, and enforcement of support orders, and location of noncustodial parents.


(b) *Additional application requirement for Tribal organizations.* The initial and subsequent annual budget submissions of a Tribal organization must document that each participating Tribe authorizes the Tribal organization to operate a Tribal IV-D program on its behalf.


(c) *Annual budget submission.* Following the initial funding period, the Tribe or Tribal organization operating a IV-D program must submit annually Form SF 424A, including all the necessary accompanying information and documentation described in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.


(d) *Plan Amendments.* Plan amendments must be submitted in accordance with the requirements of § 309.35(e).



---

[N] [69 FR 16672, Mar. 30, 2004, as amended at 89 FR 9792, Feb. 12, 2024; 89 FR 9792, Feb. 12, 2024]






