# ยง 1021.343   Variances.

(a) *Emergency actions.* DOE may take an action without observing all provisions of this part or the CEQ Regulations, in accordance with 40 CFR 1506.11, in emergency situations that demand immediate action. DOE shall consult with CEQ as soon as possible regarding alternative arrangements for emergency actions having significant environmental impacts. DOE shall document, including publishing a notice in the _Federal Register,_ emergency actions covered by this paragraph within 30 days after such action occurs; this documentation shall identify any adverse impacts from the actions taken, further mitigation necessary, and any NEPA documents that may be required.


(b) *Reduction of time periods.* On a case-by-case basis, DOE may reduce time periods established in this part that are not required by the CEQ Regulations. If DOE determines that such reduction is necessary, DOE shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ specifying the revised time periods and the rationale for the reduction.


(c) *Other.* Any variance from the requirements of this part, other than as provided by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, must be soundly based on the interests of national security or the public health, safety, or welfare and must have the advance written approval of the Secretary; however, the Secretary is not authorized to waive or grant a variance from any requirement of the CEQ Regulations (except as provided for in those regulations). If the Secretary determines that a variance from the requirements of this part is within his/her authority to grant and is necessary, DOE shall publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ specifying the variance granted and the reasons. 




