# 17.106-3   Special procedures applicable to DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard.

(a) *Participation by subcontractors, suppliers, and vendors.* In order to broaden the defense industrial base, to the maximum extent practicable—


(1) Multiyear contracting shall be used in such a manner as to seek, retain, and promote the use under such contracts of companies that are subcontractors, suppliers, and vendors; and


(2) Upon accrual of any payment or other benefit under such a multiyear contract to any subcontractor, supplier, or vendor company participating in such contract, such payment or benefit shall be delivered to such company in the most expeditious manner practicable.


(b) *Protection of existing authority.* To the extent practicable, multiyear contracting shall not be carried out in a manner to preclude or curtail the existing ability of the Department or agency to provide for termination of a prime contract, the performance of which is deficient with respect to cost, quality, or schedule.


(c) *Cancellation or termination for insufficient funding.* In the event funds are not made available for the continuation of a multiyear contract awarded using the procedures in this section, the contract shall be canceled or terminated.


(d) Contracts awarded under the multiyear procedure shall be firm-fixed-price, fixed-price with economic price adjustment, or fixed-price incentive.


(e) *Recurring costs in cancellation ceiling.* The inclusion of recurring costs in cancellation ceilings is an exception to normal contract financing arrangements and requires approval by the agency head.


(f) *Annual and multiyear proposals.* Obtaining both annual and multiyear offers provides reduced lead time for making an annual award in the event that the multiyear award is not in the Government's interest. Obtaining both also provides a basis for the computation of savings and other benefits. However, the preparation and evaluation of dual offers may increase administrative costs and workload for both offerors and the Government, especially for large or complex acquisitions. The head of a contracting activity may authorize the use of a solicitation requesting only multiyear prices, *provided* it is found that such a solicitation is in the Government's interest, and that dual proposals are not necessary to meet the objectives in 17.105-2.


(g) *Level unit prices.* Multiyear contract procedures provide for the amortization of certain costs over the entire contract quantity resulting in identical (level) unit prices (except when the economic price adjustment terms apply) for all items or services under the multiyear contract. If level unit pricing is not in the Government's interest, the head of a contracting activity may approve the use of variable unit prices, provided that for competitive proposals there is a valid method of evaluation.




