# § 721.1755   Methylenebisbenzotriazole.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance methylenebisbenzotriazole (P-93-578) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* During both manufacture and use of the substance, requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent) and (c). During manufacture of the PMN substance § 721.63(a)(5)(i); during use of the PMN substance § 721.63 (a)(5)(iii), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5)(vi), and (a)(5)(vii). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (l) and (q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Recordkeeping requirements specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [60 FR 11041, Mar. 1, 1995]




