# § 3555.107   Application for and issuance of the loan guarantee.

(a) *Processing of applications.* Except as provided in this section, Rural Development will process loan guarantee applications in the order that completed applications are received. Application forms and instruction procedures are available at any Rural Development office.


(1) If analysis of the utilization of funds during the fiscal year indicates that, at the rate of current utilization, funds may not be sufficient to sustain that level of activity for the remainder of the fiscal year, the Agency may determine a shortage of funds exists.


(2) When there is a shortage of funds, the Agency will limit SFHGLP loans to first-time homebuyers or veterans. First-time homebuyers and veterans will be served in the order their applications are received.


(b) *Automated underwriting.* Approved lenders are required to process SFHGLP loans using Rural Development's automated systems. The automated underwriting system is a tool to help evaluate credit risk but does not substitute or replace the careful judgment of experienced underwriters and shall not be the exclusive determination on extending credit. The lender must apply for and receive approval from Rural Development to utilize the automated underwriting system. Rural Development reserves the right to terminate the lender's use of the automated underwriting system.

(1) Lenders are responsible for ensuring all data is true and accurately represented in the automated underwriting system.

(2) Full documentation and verification, in accordance with Subparts C, D and E of this part, will be retained in the lender's permanent loan file and must confirm the applicant's eligibility, creditworthiness, repayment ability, eligible loan purpose, sufficient collateral, and all other regulatory requirements.


(3) The use of Rural Development's automated underwriting system subjects the lender to indemnification requirements in accordance with § 3555.108.

(4) If a loan receives an “Accept” underwriting recommendation, the lender is generally permitted to submit minimal documentation including the appraisal, flood hazard determination and fully executed request for guarantee, unless the lender is instructed to provide other documentation.


(5) Loan requests that receive a “Refer” or “Refer with Caution” underwriting recommendation require further review and manual underwriting by the lender to determine whether the applicant meets SFHGLP eligibility requirements.


(6) Lenders will validate findings based on the output report of the automated underwriting system.

(7) The final submission of the last scoring event must be retained in the lender's permanent loan file.


(c) *Manual underwriting.* Loans requiring manual underwriting (manually underwritten loans) are described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. For manually underwritten loans, full documentation, and verification in accordance with subparts C, D, and E of this part will be submitted to Rural Development when requesting a guarantee and maintained in the lender's file. The documentation will confirm the applicant's eligibility, creditworthiness, repayment ability, eligible loan purpose, adequate collateral, and satisfaction of other regulatory requirements. The following types of loans require manual underwriting:


(1) Loans downgraded by Rural Development's automated system. These loans are manually underwritten by the lender and submitted utilizing Rural Development's automated system.


(2) Loans that are not supported by Rural Development's automated systems. These loans are manually underwritten by the lender and submitted by secure email or other electronic means approved by the Agency.

(d) *Appraisals.* The lender must supply a current appraisal report of the property for which the guarantee is requested.


(1) Appraisals must be conducted in accordance with the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices.


(2) Approved lenders are responsible for selecting a qualified appraiser and the integrity, accuracy and thoroughness of the appraisals used to support their loan guarantee request.


(3) The appraiser must report all readily observable property deficiencies, potential environmental hazards, as well as any adverse conditions discovered performing the research involved in completing the appraisal.


(4) The Agency will conduct reviews of the appraisals prior to issuance of the conditional commitment, and other reviews may be conducted to ensure overall quality of appraisals. The lender is responsible for correcting any appraisal deficiencies reported by the Agency.


(5) The Agency may determine an appraiser ineligible to conduct appraisals for SFHGLP due to the failure to comply with applicable requirements and regulations. Appraisals from the ineligible appraisers will not be accepted.


(6) Use of an alternative approach to value for appraisals performed in remote rural areas, on tribal lands, or where a lack of market activity exists may be accepted at the Agency's discretion.


(7) The validity period of an appraisal will be 120 days, unless otherwise provided by the Agency.


(e) *Environmental requirements.* The lender and Rural Development will meet all environmental responsibilities in accordance with § 3555.5.


(f) *Issuance of a conditional commitment.* The lender must demonstrate that all the general loan, applicant, and site eligibility requirements of this part are met before Rural Development will issue a conditional commitment. The lender, however, may obtain any required property inspection reports, such as a well test or construction phase inspections, if applicable and not needed for environmental compliance, after the issuance of the conditional commitment, but prior to loan closing.


(1) The conditional commitment will expire in 90 days from issuance, unless new construction is involved.


(2) The expiration of a conditional commitment may coincide with projected completion of new construction.


(3) An extension may be granted if the loan cannot be closed due to circumstances beyond the lender's control.


(4) Lenders may accept or decline the conditional commitment, or submit requests for changes with adequate support and documentation to be reviewed by the Agency.


(g) *Loan guarantee fee.* The lender must pay a nonrefundable up-front guarantee fee, the cost of which may be passed on to the borrower. The up-front guarantee fee will not exceed 3.5 percent of the principal obligation. The current guarantee fee is available at any Rural Development office and may change periodically. Notice of a change in fee will be published as authorized in Exhibit K of subpart A of part 1810 of this chapter (RD Instruction 440.1, available in any Rural Development office) or online at: *http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rd_instructions.html.* Once the guarantee has been issued, the fee will not be refunded.


(h) *Annual fee.* The Agency may impose an annual fee of the lender not to exceed 0.5 percent of the average annual scheduled unpaid principal balance of the loan for the life of the loan to allow the Agency to reduce the up-front guarantee in § 3555.107(g). The annual fee will be applicable to purchase and refinance loan transactions. The annual fee may be passed on to the borrower by the lender. The Agency may assess a late charge to the lender if the annual fee is not paid by the due date, and the late charge may not be passed on to the borrower. Further administrative guidance is provided in the handbook.


(i) *Proper closing and requesting the loan note guarantee.* The lender must ensure that any loan to be guaranteed is properly closed using documents acceptable to Rural Development.


(1) Within 30 days of loan closing, the lender must request issuance of a loan guarantee.


(2) The lender will certify the loan was closed in accordance with the conditional commitment and that no major changes have taken place since issuance of a commitment, except any changes specifically approved by the Agency.


(3) The lender will maintain evidence of hazard insurance and, if applicable, flood insurance.


(4) For all loan submissions, evidence of documentation supporting the properly closed loan will be submitted using Rural Development's automated systems.

(5) Lenders will submit full documentation supporting a closed loan or evidence of self-certification status, as described in this section. Self-certified lenders must still submit the settlement statement and promissory note. Lenders must obtain written authorization from the Agency prior to submitting evidence of self-certification in lieu of full documentation. Authorization for self-certification may be granted by the Agency if:


(i) The lender has an active lender agreement.


(ii) The lender is actively engaged in originating SFHGLP loans and has closed a minimum of 10 loans in the past 12 months.


(iii) The lender has successfully submitted 10 consecutive loan closing to the Agency that were in compliance with loan closing requirements and procedures.


(iv) The lender agrees to retain evidence of confirmed closing conditions in accordance with the issued conditional commitment in the lender's permanent loan file.


(j) *Issuance of the guarantee.* The loan guarantee does not take effect until:


(1) The lender transmits the required up-front guarantee fee, the lender certification form provided by Rural Development, and loan closing documents to Rural Development;


(2) The lender meets all other conditions set out in the conditional commitment;


(3) The loan is current at the time the lender requests the loan guarantee;


(4) Any construction or rehabilitation, is complete except for development described in §§ 3555.101(c) and 3555.202(c); and


(5) Rural Development issues the loan guarantee document.



---

[N] [78 FR 73941, Dec. 9, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 6429, Feb. 8, 2016; 87 FR 6776, Feb. 7, 2022]




