# § 423.2136   Judicial review.

(a) *General rule*—(1) *Review of Council decision.* To the extent authorized by sections 1876(c)(5)(B) and 1860D-4(h) of the Act, an enrollee may obtain a court review of a Council decision if—


(i) It is a final decision of the Secretary; and


(ii) The amount in controversy meets the threshold requirements of § 423.2006.


(2) *Review of ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision.* To the extent authorized by sections 1876(c)(5)(B) and 1860D-4(h) of the Act, the enrollee may request judicial review of an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision if—


(i) The Council denied the enrollee's request for review; and


(ii) The amount in controversy meets the threshold requirements of § 423.2006.


(b) *Court in which to file civil action.* (1) Any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section must be filed in the District Court of the United States for the judicial district in which the enrollee resides.


(2) If the enrollee does not reside within any judicial district, the civil action must be filed in the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.


(c) *Time for filing civil action.* (1) Any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section must be filed within the time periods specified in § 423.2130 or § 423.2134, as applicable.


(2) For purposes of this section, the date of receipt of the notice of the Council's decision shall be presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.


(3) Where a case is certified for judicial review in accordance with the expedited access to judicial review process in § 423.1990, the civil action must be filed within 60 calendar days after receipt of the review entity's certification, except where the time is extended by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator or Council, as applicable, upon a showing of good cause.


(d) *Proper defendant.* (1) In any civil action described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary of HHS, in his or her official capacity, is the proper defendant. Any civil action properly filed shall survive notwithstanding any change of the person holding the Office of the Secretary of HHS or any vacancy in such office.


(2) If the complaint is erroneously filed against the United States or against any agency, officer, or employee of the United States other than the Secretary, the plaintiff enrollee will be notified that he or she has named an incorrect defendant and is granted 60 calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice in which to commence the action against the correct defendant, the Secretary.


(e) *Standard of review.* (1) Under section 205(g) of the Act, the findings of the Secretary of HHS as to any fact, if supported by substantial evidence, are conclusive.


(2) When the Secretary's decision is adverse to an enrollee due to an enrollee's failure to submit proof in conformity with a regulation prescribed under section 205(a) of the Act pertaining to the type of proof an enrollee must offer to establish entitlement to payment, the court will review only whether the proof conforms with the regulation and the validity of the regulation.



---

[N] [74 FR 65363, Dec. 9, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 5139, Jan. 17, 2017; 84 FR 19874, May 7, 2019]




