# § 421.201   Performance criteria and standards.

(a) *Application of performance criteria and standards.* As part of the carrier evaluations mandated by section 1842(b)(2) of the Act, CMS periodically assesses the performance of carriers in their Medicare operations using performance criteria and standards. 


(1) The criteria measure and evaluate carrier performance of functional responsibilities such as—


(i) Accurate and timely payment determinations; 


(ii) Responsiveness to beneficiary, physician, and supplier concerns; and 


(iii) Proper management of administrative funds.


(2) The standards evaluate the specific requirements of each functional responsibility or criterion.


(b) *Basis for criteria and standards.* CMS bases the performance criteria and standards on—


(1) Nationwide carrier experience;


(2) Changes in carrier operations due to fiscal constraints; and


(3) CMS's objectives in achieving better performance.


(c) *Publication of criteria and standards.* Before the beginning of each evaluation period, which usually coincides with the Federal fiscal year period of October 1-September 30, CMS publishes the performance criteria and standards as a notice in the _Federal Register._ CMS may not necessarily publish the criteria and standards every year. CMS interprets the statutory phrase “before the beginning of each evaluation period” as allowing publication of the criteria and standards after the Federal fiscal year begins, as long as the evaluation period of the carriers for the new criteria and standards begins after the publication of the notice.



---

[N] [59 FR 682, Jan. 6, 1994]




