# § 3.400   General.

Except as otherwise provided, the effective date of an evaluation and award of pension, compensation, or dependency and indemnity compensation based on an initial claim or supplemental claim will be the date of receipt of the claim or the date entitlement arose, whichever is later. For effective date provisions regarding revision of a decision based on a supplemental claim or higher-level review, see § 3.2500.


(a) *Unless specifically provided.* On basis of facts found. 


(b) *Disability benefits*—(1) *Disability pension (§ 3.3).* An award of disability pension may not be effective prior to the date entitlement arose.


(i) *Claims received prior to October 1, 1984.* Date of receipt of claim or date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, if claim is filed within one year from such date, whichever is to the advantage of the veteran.


(ii) *Claims received on or after October 1, 1984.* (A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, date of receipt of claim.


(B) If, within one year from the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, the veteran files a claim for a retroactive award and establishes that a physical or mental disability, which was not the result of the veteran's own willful misconduct, was so incapacitating that it prevented him or her from filing a disability pension claim for at least the first 30 days immediately following the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, the disability pension award may be effective from the date of receipt of claim or the date on which the veteran became permanently and totally disabled, whichever is to the advantage of the veteran. While rating board judgment must be applied to the facts and circumstances of each case, extensive hospitalization will generally qualify as sufficiently incapacitating to have prevented the filing of a claim. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the presumptive provisions of § 3.342(a) do not apply. 


(2) *Disability compensation*—(i) *Direct service connection (§ 3.4(b)).* Day following separation from active service or date entitlement arose if claim is received within 1 year after separation from service; otherwise, date of receipt of claim, or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. Separation from service means separation under conditions other than dishonorable from continuous active service which extended from the date the disability was incurred or aggravated. 


(ii) *Presumptive service connection* (§§ *3.307, 3.308, 3.309*). Date entitlement arose, if claim is received within 1 year after separation from active duty; otherwise date of receipt of claim, or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. Where the requirements for service connection are met during service, the effective date will be the day following separation from service if there was continuous active service following the period of service on which the presumption is based and a claim is received within 1 year after separation from active duty. 


(c) *Death benefits*—(1) *Death in service (38 U.S.C. 5110(j), Pub. L. 87-825) (§§ 3.4(c), 3.5(b)).* First day of the month fixed by the Secretary concerned as the date of actual or presumed death, if claim is received with 1 year after the date the initial report of actual death or finding of presumed death was made; however benefits based on a report of actual death are not payable for any period for which the claimant has received, or is entitled to receive an allowance, allotment, or service pay of the veteran.


(2) *Service-connected death after separation from service (38 U.S.C. 5110(d), Pub. L. 87-825) (§§ 3.4(c), 3.5(b)).* First day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within 1 year after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.


(3) *Nonservice-connected death after separation from service.* (i) For awards based on claims received prior to October 1, 1984, or on or after December 10, 2004, first day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within one year after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.


(ii) For awards based on claims received between October 1, 1984, and December 9, 2004, first day of the month in which the veteran's death occurred if claim is received within 45 days after the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.


(4) *Dependency and indemnity compensation*—(i) *Deaths prior to January 1, 1957 (§ 3.702).* Date of receipt of election.


(ii) *Child (38 U.S.C. 5110(e), Pub. L. 87-835).* First day of the month in which entitlement arose if claim is received within 1 year after the date of entitlement; otherwise, date of receipt of claim.


(iii) *Deaths on or after May 1, 1957 (in-service waiver cases) (§§ 3.5(b)(3) and 3.702).* Date of receipt of election. (See § 3.114(a)).


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Apportionment* (§§ *3.450 through 3.461, 3.551*). On original claims, in accordance with the facts found. On other than original claims from the first day of the month following the month in which: 


(1) Claim is received for apportionment of a veteran's award, except that where payments to him (her) have been interrupted, apportionment will be effective the day following date of last payment if a claim for apportionment is received within 1 year after that date; 


(2) Notice is received that a child included in the surviving spouse's award is not in the surviving spouse's custody, except that where payments to the surviving spouse have been interrupted, apportionment will be effective the day following date of last payment if such notice is received within 1 year after that date. 


(f) *Federal employees' compensation cases* (§ *3.708*). Date authorized by applicable law, subject to any payments made by the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act over the same period of time. 


(g) *Correction of military records (38 U.S.C. 5110(i); Pub. L. 87-825).* Where entitlement is established because of the correction, change or modification of a military record, or of a discharge or dismissal, by a Board established under 10 U.S.C. 1552 or 1553, or because of other corrective action by competent military naval, or air authority, the award will be effective from the latest of these dates: 


(1) Date application for change, correction, or modification was filed with the service department, in either an original or a disallowed claim; 


(2) Date of receipt of claim if claim was disallowed; or 


(3) One year prior to date of reopening of disallowed claim. 


(h) *Difference of opinion (§ 3.105).* (1) As to decisions not finally adjudicated (see § 3.160(d)) prior to timely receipt of an application for higher-level review, or prior to readjudication on VA initiative, the date from which benefits would have been payable if the former decision had been favorable.


(2) As to decisions which have been finally adjudicated (see § 3.160(d)), and notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the date entitlement arose, but not earlier than the date of receipt of the supplemental claim.


(3) As to decisions which have been finally adjudicated (see 3.160(d)) and readjudication is undertaken solely on VA initiative, the date of Central Office approval authorizing a favorable decision or the date of the favorable Board of Veterans' Appeals decision.


(4) Where the initial determination for the purpose of death benefits is favorable, the commencing date will be determined without regard to the fact that the action may reverse, on a difference of opinion, an unfavorable decision for disability purposes by an adjudicative agency other than the Board of Veterans Appeals, which was in effect at the date of the veteran's death. 


(i) *Disability or death due to hospitalization, etc.* (38 U.S.C. 5110(c), (d); Public Law 87-825; §§ 3.358, 3.361, and 3.800.) (1) *Disability.* Date injury or aggravation was suffered if claim is received within 1 year after that date; otherwise, date of receipt of claim. 


(2) *Death.* First day of month in which the veteran's death occurred if a claim is received within 1 year following the date of death; otherwise, date of receipt of claim. 


(j) *Election of Department of Veterans Affairs benefits* (§ *3.700 series*). (1) Unless otherwise provided, the date of receipt of election, subject to prior payments. 


(2) July 1, 1960, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211, where pension is payable for June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date, including an award approved after that date, if the election is filed within (generally) 120 days from date of notice of the award. The award will be subject to prior payments over the same period of time. 


(3) January 1, 1965, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 88-664 if there was basic eligibility for pension on June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date and an election if filed prior to May 1, 1965. 


(4) January 1, 1965, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 88-664 if there was basic eligibility on that date for pension on the basis of service in the Indian wars or Spanish-American War and an election is filed prior to May 1, 1965. 


(5) January 1, 1969, as to pension payable under Pub. L. 86-211 (73 Stat. 432), as amended by Pub. L. 90-275 (82 Stat. 64), if there was basic eligibility for pension on June 30, 1960, under the law in effect on that date and an election is filed prior to May 1, 1969. 


(6) August 1, 1972, as to pension payable under Pub. L. (73 Stat. 432) as amended by Pub. L. 92-328 (86 Stat. 393) if there was basic eligibility on that date based on death of a veteran of the Spanish-American War and an election is filed prior to December 1, 1972. 


(k) *Error* (§ *3.105*). Date from which benefits would have been payable if the corrected decision had been made on the date of the reversed decision. 


(l) *Foreign residence.* (See § 3.653). 


(m) *Forfeiture* (§§ *3.901, 3.902*). Day following date of last payment on award to payee who forfeited. 


(n) *Guardian.* Day following date of last payment to prior payee or fiduciary.


(o) *Increases (38 U.S.C. 5110(a) and 5110(b)(2), Pub. L. 94-71, 89 Stat. 395; §§ 3.109, 3.156, 3.157*—(1) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this section and § 3.401(b), date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. A retroactive increase or additional benefit will not be awarded after basic entitlement has been terminated, such as by severance of service connection. 


(2) *Disability compensation.* Earliest date as of which it is factually ascertainable based on all evidence of record that an increase in disability had occurred if a complete claim or intent to file a claim is received within 1 year from such date, otherwise, date of receipt of claim. When medical records indicate an increase in a disability, receipt of such medical records may be used to establish effective date(s) for retroactive benefits based on facts found of an increase in a disability only if a complete claim or intent to file a claim for an increase is received within 1 year of the date of the report of examination, hospitalization, or medical treatment. The provisions of this paragraph apply only when such reports relate to examination or treatment of a disability for which service-connection has previously been established.


(p) *Liberalizing laws and Department of Veterans Affairs issues.* See § 3.114. 


(q) *New and material evidence (§ 3.156) other than service department records*—(1) *Received within appeal period or prior to appellate decision.* The effective date will be as though the former decision had not been rendered. See §§ 20.1103, 20.1104 and 20.1304(b)(1) of this chapter. 


(2) *Received after final disallowance.* Date of receipt of new claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later. 


(r) *Reopened claims.* (§§ 3.109, 3.156, 3.157, 3.160(e)) Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later, except as provided in § 20.1304(b)(1) of this chapter.


(s) *Renouncement* (§ *3.106*). Except as provided in § 3.106(c), date of receipt of new claim. 


(t) *Whereabouts now known.* (See § 3.158(c).) 


(u) *Void, annulled or terminated marriage of a child* (*38 U.S.C. 5110* (*a*), (*k*), (*l*)*; Pub. L. 93-527, 88 Stat. 1702;* § *3.55*)—(1) *Void.* Date the parties ceased to cohabit or date of receipt of claim, whichever is later. 


(2) *Annulled.* Date the decree of annulment became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. 


(3) *Death.* Date of death if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(b) of this part are met. 


(4) *Divorce.* Date the decree became final if claim is filed within 1 year of that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(b) of this part are met. 


(v) *Termination of remarriage of surviving spouse (38 U.S.C. 5110(a), (k); 38 U.S.C. 103(d) and 3010(l) effective January 1, 1971; § 3.55)*—(1) *Void.* Date the parties ceased to cohabit or date of receipt of claim, whichever is the later. 


(2) *Annulled.* Date the decree of annulment became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. 


(3) *Death.* Date of death if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a) of this part are met. 


(4) *Divorce.* Date the decree became final if claim is filed within 1 year after that date; otherwise date of receipt of claim. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a) of this part are met. 


(w) *Termination of relationship or conduct resulting in restriction on payment of benefits (38 U.S.C. 5110(m), effective January 1, 1971; §§ 3.50(b)(2) and 3.55).* Date of receipt of application filed after termination of relationship and after December 31, 1970. Benefits are not payable unless the provisions of § 3.55(a), as applicable, are met. 


(x) *Effective date of determination of incompetency (§ 3.353).* Date of rating of incompetency. (Not applicable to an incompetency determination made for insurance purposes under 38 U.S.C. 1922).


(y) *Effective date of determination restoring competency (§ 3.353).* Date shown by evidence of record that competency was regained. 


(z) *Claims based on service in the Women's Air Forces Service Pilots (WASP), or on service in a similarly situated group (Pub. L. 95-202).* (1) Original claim: Date of receipt of claim or date entitlement arose, whichever is later, or as otherwise provided under this section (e.g., paragraph (b)(1) of this section) except that no benefits shall be awarded for any period prior to November 23, 1977. 


(2) Reopened claims received prior to the effective date provided in § 19.2(a) of this chapter: Latest of the following dates:


(i) November 23, 1977.


(ii) Date entitlement arose.


(iii) One year prior to date of receipt of reopened claim.


(3) Supplemental claims received more than one year after notice of decision: Latest of the following dates:


(i) Date entitlement arose.


(ii) One year prior to date of receipt of a supplemental claim.



---

[N] [26 FR 1593, Feb. 24, 1961]


