# ยง 62.25   What does the Loan Repayment Program provide?

(a) *Loan repayment.* For each year of service the individual agrees to serve, with a minimum of 2 years of obligated service, the Secretary may pay:


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, up to $20,000 per year of a Program participant's qualifying loans or


(2) Up to $25,000 per year for a Program participant's qualifying loans if the Program participant agrees to provide obligated service in the Indian Health Service or a health facility or program operated by a tribe or tribal organization under the Indian Self-Determination Act.


(b) *Site visit.* The Secretary may reimburse an individual for the actual and reasonable travel expenses associated with one trip from the individual's residence to a site for the purpose of evaluating such site for service under the Loan Repayment Program.


(c) *Tax liability payments.* The Secretary may, upon a Program participant's written request, make payments in a reasonable amount, as determined by the Secretary, to reimburse the Program participant for all or part of the increased Federal, State and local tax liability resulting from loan repayments received under the Loan Repayment Program. To maximize the Federal resources available for placing participants in HMSAs, supplementary payments for increased tax liability will only be made under unusual circumstances, and in no cases will these tax liability payments exceed 20% of the annual amounts of the loans being repaid. Program participants wishing to receive tax liability payments must submit their requests for such payments in a manner prescribed by the Secretary and must provide the Secretary with any documentation the Secretary determines is necessary to establish a Program participant's increased tax liability. The Secretary will determine, based on the availability of funds and such other factors as the Secretary determines, the amounts of any such payments that may be made.



---

[N] [54 FR 13462, Apr. 3, 1989, as amended at 57 FR 56996, Dec. 2, 1992]




