# ยง 28.20   Number of Pleadings, service and response.

(a) *Number.* One original and seven copies of all pleadings (see definition in ยง 28.3) must be filed with the Board. However, when before a single administrative judge, one original and three copies will be adequate unless informed otherwise. 


(b) *Service.* (1) The Board will serve copies of a petition upon the parties to the proceeding by mail and/or by facsimile. The Board will attach a service list indicating the names and addresses of the parties to the proceeding or their designated representatives. The Board will not serve copies of any pleadings, motions, or other submissions by the parties after the initial petition. 


(2) The parties shall serve on each other one copy of all pleadings other than the initial petition. Service shall be made by mailing, by facsimile or by delivering personally a copy of the pleading to each party on the service list previously provided by the Board. Each pleading must be accompanied by a certificate of service specifying how and when service was made. It shall be the duty of all parties to notify the Board and one another in writing of any changes in the names or addresses on the service list. 


(c) *Time limitations for response to pleadings.* Unless otherwise specified by the administrative judge or this subpart, a party shall file a response to a pleading within 20 days of the service of that pleading upon the party. 


(d) Size limitations are set forth at ยง 28.9(b). 



---

[N] [58 FR 61992, Nov. 23, 1993, as amended at 68 FR 69300, Dec. 12, 2003]




