# ยง 24.293   Wine for Government use.

(a) *General.* Wine may be removed from bonded wine premises, free of tax, for use of the Government of the United States, or any agency thereof, upon receipt of a proper Government order signed by the officer in charge of the department, institution, station, or similar establishment, to which the wine is to be shipped or other officer duly authorized to sign the order. The governmental order will show the kind, quantity and alcohol content of the wine desired; and the purpose for which the wine is to be used. Wine may also be removed for use by the governments of the several states and the District of Columbia, or of any subdivision thereof, or by any agency of the governments, free of tax, from bonded wine premises for analysis, testing, research or experimentation.


(b) *Bill of lading and report of shipment.* Where wine is shipped by common carrier, the proprietor shall retain a copy of the bill of lading, covering the shipment, with the TTB F 5120.17, Report of Bonded Wine Premises Operations for the reporting period in which the shipment is made. The bill of lading will show the name and address of the agency to which the wine is shipped, identifying marks on containers or cases, and alcohol content of the wine. The governmental order, or a copy of the order, will be filed at the bonded wine premises available for inspection by appropriate TTB officers.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-299, 55 FR 24989, June 19, 1990, as amended by T.D. ATF-312, 56 FR 31082, July 9, 1991; T.D. ATF-338, 58 FR 19065, Apr. 12, 1993; T.D. ATF-409, 64 FR 13684, Mar. 22, 1999]




