# ยง 63.601   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in ยง 63.2 of the Clean Air Act and in this section as follows:


*Active gypsum dewatering stack* means a gypsum dewatering stack that is currently receiving gypsum, received gypsum within the last year, or is part of the facility's water management system. A gypsum dewatering stack that is considered closed by a state authority is not considered an active gypsum dewatering stack.


*Breakthrough* means the point in time when the level of mercury detected at the outlet of an adsorber system is 90 percent of the highest concentration allowed to be discharged consistent with the applicable emission limit.


*Cooling pond* means a natural or artificial open reservoir that is primarily used to collect and cool water that comes into direct contact with raw materials, intermediate products, by-products, waste products, or finished products from a phosphoric acid manufacturing plant. The water in the cooling pond is often used at phosphoric acid manufacturing plants as filter wash water, absorber water for air pollution control absorbers, and/or to transport phosphogypsum as slurry to a gypsum dewatering stack(s).


*Equivalent P*_2_O_5_*feed* means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide (P_2_O_5_), fed to the process.


*Evaporative cooling tower* means an open-water, re-circulating device that uses fans or natural draft to draw or force ambient air through the device to remove heat from process water by direct contact.


*Exceedance* means a departure from an indicator range established for monitoring under this subpart, consistent with any averaging period specified for averaging the results of the monitoring.


*Existing source* depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of an affected source commenced. A wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, phosphate rock dryer, phosphate rock calciner, evaporative cooling tower, or purified acid process line is an existing source if construction or reconstruction of the affected source commenced on or before December 27, 1996. A gypsum dewatering stack or cooling pond is an existing source if it meets one of two criteria:


(1) It was constructed or reconstructed on or before August 19, 2015; or


(2) It was constructed or reconstructed after August 19, 2015 and it was not required to obtain a permit by a state authority for the construction or reconstruction.


*Gypsum dewatering stack* means any defined geographic area associated with a phosphoric acid manufacturing plant in which gypsum is disposed of or stored, other than within a fully enclosed building, container, or tank.


*Gypsum dewatering stack system* means the gypsum dewatering stack, together with all pumps, piping, ditches, drainage conveyances, water control structures, collection pools, cooling ponds, surge ponds, auxiliary holding ponds, regional holding ponds and any other collection or conveyance system associated with the transport of gypsum from the plant to the gypsum dewatering stack, its management at the gypsum dewatering stack, and the process wastewater return to the phosphoric acid production or other process.


*HAP metals* mean those metals and their compounds (in particulate or volatile form) that are included on the list of hazardous air pollutants in section 112 of the Clean Air Act. HAP metals include, but are not limited to: Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, nickel, and selenium expressed as particulate matter as measured by the methods and procedures in this subpart or an approved alternative method. For the purposes of this subpart, HAP metals (except mercury) are expressed as particulate matter as measured by Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3.


*New source* depends on the date that construction or reconstruction of an affected source commences. A wet-process phosphoric acid process line, superphosphoric acid process line, phosphate rock dryer, phosphate rock calciner, evaporative cooling tower, or purified acid process line is a new source if construction or reconstruction of the affected source commenced after December 27, 1996. A gypsum dewatering stack or cooling pond is a new source if it meets two criteria:


(1) It was constructed or reconstructed after August 19, 2015; and


(2) It was required to obtain a permit by a state authority for the construction or reconstruction.


*Oxidation reactor* means any equipment or step that uses an oxidizing agent (*e.g.,* nitric acid, ammonium nitrate, or potassium permanganate) to treat superphosphoric acid.


*Phosphate rock calciner* means the equipment used to remove moisture and organic matter from phosphate rock through direct or indirect heating.


*Phosphate rock dryer* means the equipment used to reduce the moisture content of phosphate rock through direct or indirect heating.


*Phosphate rock feed* means all material entering any phosphate rock dryer or phosphate rock calciner including moisture and extraneous material as well as the following ore materials: Fluorapatite, hydroxylapatite, chlorapatite, and carbonateapatite.


*Purified phosphoric acid process line* means any process line that uses a HAP as a solvent in the separation of impurities from the product acid for the purposes of rendering that product suitable for industrial, manufacturing, or food grade uses. A purified phosphoric acid process line includes: solvent extraction process equipment, solvent stripping and recovery equipment, seal tanks, carbon treatment equipment, cooling towers, storage tanks, pumps, and process piping.


*Raffinate stream* means the aqueous stream containing the impurities that are removed during the purification of wet-process phosphoric acid using solvent extraction.


*Research and development facility* means research or laboratory operations whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and where the facility is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale in commerce or other off-site distribution, except in a de minimis manner.


*Rim ditch (cell) building technique* means a gypsum dewatering stack construction technique that utilizes inner and outer dikes to direct gypsum slurry flow around the perimeter of the stack before directing the flow and allowing settling of finer materials into the settling compartment. For the purpose of this definition, the rim ditch (cell) building technique includes the compartment startup phase when gypsum is deposited directly into the settling compartment in preparation for ditch construction as well as the step-in or terminal phases when most solids must be directed to the settling compartment prior to stack closure. Decant return ditches are not rim ditches.


*Shutdown* commences when feed materials cease to be added to an affected source and ends when the affected source is deactivated, regardless of whether feed material is present in the affected source.


*Startup* commences when any feed material is first introduced into an affected source and ends when feed material is fully loaded into the affected source.


*Superphosphoric acid process line* means any process line that concentrates wet-process phosphoric acid to 66 percent or greater P_2_O_5_ content by weight. A superphosphoric acid process line includes: evaporators, hot wells, acid sumps, oxidation reactors, and cooling tanks.


*Total fluorides* means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds, including the HAP HF, as measured by reference methods specified in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 13 A or B, or by equivalent or alternative methods approved by the Administrator pursuant to ยง 63.7(f).


*Wet-process phosphoric acid process line* means any process line manufacturing phosphoric acid by reacting phosphate rock and acid. A wet-process phosphoric acid process line includes: reactors, filters, evaporators, and hot wells.




