# ยง 725.4   Applicability of other parts in this title.

(a) Part 718. Part 718 of this subchapter, which contains the criteria and standards to be applied in determining whether a miner is or was totally disabled due to pneumoconiosis, or whether a miner died due to pneumoconiosis, shall be applicable to the determination of claims under this part. Claims filed after March 31, 1980, are subject to part 718 as promulgated by the Secretary in accordance with section 402(f)(1) of the Act on February 29, 1980 (see ยง 725.2(c)). The criteria contained in subpart C of part 727 of this subchapter are applicable in determining claims filed prior to April 1, 1980, under this part, and such criteria shall be applicable at all times with respect to claims filed under this part and under section 11 of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977. 


(b) *Parts 715, 717, and 720.* Pertinent and significant provisions of Parts 715, 717, and 720 of this subchapter (formerly contained in 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 1978), which established the procedures for the filing, processing, and payment of claims filed under section 415 of the Act, are included within this part as appropriate. 


(c) *Part 726.* Part 726 of this subchapter, which sets forth the obligations imposed upon a coal operator to insure or self-insure its liability for the payment of benefits to certain eligible claimants, is applicable to this part as appropriate. 


(d) *Part 727.* Part 727 of this subchapter, which governs the review, adjudication and payment of pending and denied claims under section 435 of the Act, is applicable with respect to such claims. The criteria contained in subpart C of part 727 for determining a claimant's eligibility for benefits are applicable under this part with respect to all claims filed before April 1, 1980, and to all claims filed under this part and under section 11 of the Black Lung Benefits Reform Act of 1977. Because the part 727 regulations affect an increasingly smaller number of claims, however, the Department has discontinued publication of the criteria in the Code of Federal Regulations. The part 727 criteria may be found at 43 FR 36818, Aug. 18, 1978 or 20 CFR, parts 500 to end, edition revised as of April 1, 1999. 


(e) *Part 410.* Part 410 of this title, which sets forth provisions relating to a claim for black lung benefits under part B of title IV of the Act, is inapplicable to this part except as is provided in this part, or in part 718 of this subchapter. 




