# § 108.901   Muster list and emergency instructions.

(a) *General.* Copies of clear instructions must be provided on the unit, detailing the actions that each person on board should follow in the event of an emergency.


(b) *Muster list.* Copies of the muster list must be posted in conspicuous places throughout the unit including on the navigating bridge, in the control room, and in accommodation spaces. The muster list must be posted at all times while the unit is in service. After the muster list has been prepared, if any change takes place that necessitates an alteration in the muster list, the person in charge must either revise the muster list or prepare a new one. Muster lists must provide the following information:


(1) Each muster list must specify instructions for operating the general emergency alarm system.


(2) Each muster list must specify the emergency signals.


(3) Each muster list must specify the actions to be taken by the crew and industrial personnel when each signal is sounded.


(4) Each muster list must specify how the order to abandon the unit will be given.


(5) Each muster list must specify the persons that are assigned to make sure that lifesaving and firefighting appliances are maintained in good condition and ready for immediate use.


(6) The muster list must specify the duties assigned to the different industrial personnel and members of the crew that include—


(i) Closing the watertight doors, fire doors, valves, scuppers, sidescuttles, skylights, portholes, and other similar openings in the unit's hull;


(ii) Equipping the survival craft and other lifesaving appliances;


(iii) Preparing and launching the survival craft;


(iv) Preparing other lifesaving appliances; 


(v) Mustering the visitors and other persons in addition to the crew and industrial personnel;


(vi) Using communication equipment;


(vii) Manning the emergency squad assigned to deal with fires and other emergencies;


(viii) Special duties assigned with respect to the use of firefighting equipment and installations;


(ix) Cover the duties of the crew and industrial personnel in case of collisions or other serious casualties; and


(x) Cover the duties of the crew and industrial personnel in case of severe storms.


(7) Each muster list must specify the duties assigned to industrial personnel and members of the crew in relation to visitors and other persons on board in case of an emergency that include—


(i) Warning visitors and other persons on board;


(ii) Seeing that visitors and other persons on board are suitably dressed and have donned their lifejackets or immersion suits correctly;


(iii) Assembling visitors and other persons on board at muster stations; and


(iv) Keeping order in the passageways and on the stairways and generally controlling the movements of the visitors and other persons on board;


(8) Each muster list must specify substitutes for key persons if they are disabled, taking into account that different emergencies require different actions.


(c) *Emergency instructions.* Illustrations and instructions in English and any other appropriate language, as determined by the OCMI, must be posted in each cabin used for persons who are not members of the crew or industrial personnel. They must be conspicuously displayed at each muster station and in other accommodation spaces to inform personnel of—


(1) The fire and emergency signal;


(2) Their muster station;


(3) The essential actions they must take in an emergency;


(4) The location of lifejackets, including child-size lifejackets;


(5) The method of donning lifejackets;


(6) If immersion suits are provided, the location of the immersion suits; and


(7) Fully illustrated instructions on the method of donning immersion suits.



---

[N] [CGD 84-069, 61 FR 25299, May 20, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 52815, Oct. 1, 1998]




