# § 4287.107   Routine servicing.

The lender is responsible for servicing the entire loan and for taking all servicing actions that a reasonably prudent lender would perform in servicing its own portfolio of loans that are not guaranteed. The lender may contract for services but is ultimately responsible for underwriting, loan origination, loan servicing, and compliance with all Agency regulations. Form RD 4279-4, “Lender's Agreement,” is the contractual agreement between the lender and the Agency that sets forth some of the lender's loan servicing responsibilities. These responsibilities include, but are not limited to, periodic borrower visits, the collection of payments, obtaining compliance with the covenants and provisions in the loan agreement, obtaining and analyzing financial statements, ensuring payment of taxes and insurance premiums, maintaining liens on collateral, keeping an inventory accounting of all collateral items, and reconciling the inventory of all collateral sold during loan servicing, including liquidation.


(a) *Lender reports and annual renewal fee.* The lender must report the outstanding principal and interest balance and the current loan classification on each guaranteed loan semiannually (at June 30 and December 31), using either the USDA Lender Interactive Network Connection (LINC) system or Form RD 1980-41, “Guaranteed Loan Status Report.” The lender must transmit the annual renewal fee to the Agency in accordance with § 4279.120(b) of this chapter calculated based on the December 31 semiannual status report.


(b) *Loan classification.* The lender must provide the loan classification or rating under its regulatory standards as of loan closing, using either the LINC system or Form 1980-19, “Guaranteed Loan Closing Report.” When the lender changes the loan classification in the future, the lender must notify the Agency within 30 days, in writing, of any change in the loan classification.


(c) *Agency and lender conference.* At the Agency's request, the lender must consult with the Agency to ascertain how the guaranteed loan is being serviced and that the conditions and covenants of the loan agreement are being enforced.




(d) *Borrower financial reports.* The lender must obtain, analyze, and forward to the Agency the borrower's and any guarantor's annual financial statements required by the loan agreement within 120 days of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. States, local government, Indian tribes, institution of higher education, and nonprofit organization borrowers who meet the Federal awards expended threshold established in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, during their fiscal year must submit an audit conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F. When the borrower's audit is conducted in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, audits must be submitted no later than nine months after the end of the borrower's fiscal year or 30 days after the borrower's receipt of the auditor's report, whichever is earlier. The lender must analyze these financial statements and provide the Agency with a written summary of the lender's analysis, ratio analysis, and conclusions, which, at a minimum, must include trends, strengths, weaknesses, extraordinary transactions, violations of loan covenants and covenant waivers proposed by the lender, any routine servicing actions performed, and other indications of the financial condition of the borrower. Spreadsheets of the financial statements must also be included. Following the Agency's review of the lender's financial analysis, the Agency will provide a written report of any concerns to the lender. Any concerns based upon the Agency's review must be addressed by the lender. If the lender makes a reasonable attempt to obtain financial statements but is unable to obtain the borrower's cooperation, the failure to obtain financial statements will not impair the validity of the Loan Note Guarantee.








(e) *Protection of Agency interests.* If the Agency determines that the lender is not in compliance with its servicing responsibilities, the Agency reserves the right to take any action the Agency determines necessary to protect the Agency's interests with respect to the loan. If the Agency exercises this right, the lender must cooperate with the Agency to rectify the situation. In determining any loss, the Agency will assess against the lender any cost to the Agency associated with such action.



---

[N] [81 FR 36020, June 3, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 58021, Sept. 23, 2022]








