# § 62.7856   Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Section 111(d) plan for municipal solid waste landfills and the associated 20.11.71 NMAC, as submitted on May 24, 2017. The plan includes the regulatory provisions referenced in paragraph (d) of this section, which EPA incorporates by reference.


(b) *Identification of sources.* The plan applies to all existing municipal solid waste landfills under the jurisdiction of the Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board for which construction, reconstruction, or modification was commenced on or before July 17, 2014, and are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Cf.


(c) *Effective date.* The effective date of the plan for municipal solid waste landfills is October 11, 2019.


(d) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the material may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Region 6 office, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270, 214-665-2200 or electronically through *www.regulations.gov,* Docket No. EPA-R06-OAR-2019-0306. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of New Mexico, Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Air Quality Control Board, New Mexico Administrative Code, *http://164.64.110.134/nmac/.*

(i) 20.11.71 NMAC, Title 20—Environmental Protection, Chapter 11—Albuquerque-Bernalillo-County Air Quality Control Board, Part 71—Municipal Solid Waste Landfills, New Mexico Administrative Code, effective May 13, 2017.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [84 FR 47901, Sept. 11, 2019]




