# § 982.613   Group home: Rent and voucher housing assistance payment.

(a) *Meaning of pro-rata portion.* For a group home, the term “pro-rata portion” means the ratio derived by dividing the number of persons in the assisted household by the total number of residents (assisted and unassisted) residing in the group home. The number of persons in the assisted household equals one assisted person plus any PHA-approved live-in aide.


(b) *Rent to owner: Reasonable rent limit.* (1) The rent to owner for an assisted person may not exceed the pro-rata portion of the reasonable rent for the group home.


(2) The reasonable rent for a group home is determined in accordance with § 982.507. In determining reasonable rent for the group home, the PHA must consider whether sanitary facilities, and facilities for food preparation and service, are common facilities or private facilities.


(c) *Payment standard*—(1) *Family unit size.* (i) Unless there is a live-in aide, the family unit size is zero or one bedroom.


(ii) If there is a live-in aide, the live-in aide must be counted in determining the family unit size.


(2) The payment standard for a person who resides in a group home is the lower of:


(i) The payment standard amount on the PHA payment standard schedule for the family unit size; or (ii) The pro-rata portion of the payment standard amount on the PHA payment standard schedule for the group home size.


(iii) If there is a live-in aide, the live-in aide must be counted in determining the family unit size.


(d) *Utility allowance.* The utility allowance for each assisted person residing in a group home is the pro-rata portion of the utility allowance for the group home unit size.



---

[N] [63 FR 23865, Apr. 30, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 26651, May 14, 1999]




