# § 1944.672   Environmental review requirements.

Grants made under this subpart must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(a) The approval of an HPG grant for the repair, rehabilitation, or replacement of dwellings is classified as a Categorical Exclusion, pursuant to § 1970.53. As part of their pre-application materials, applicants shall submit environmental documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, for the geographical areas proposed to be served by the program. The applicant shall refer to Part 1944 Subpart N Exhibit F-1.


(b) The use of HPG funds by the grantee to repair, rehabilitate, or replace on the same site, specific dwellings is generally exempt from an RHS environmental review. However, if such dwellings are located in a floodplain, wetland, or the proposed work is not concurred in by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation under the requirements of § 1944.673, an RHS environmental review is required. Dwellings within the Coastal Barrier Resources System are not eligible for HPG assistance. Applicants must include in their preapplication a process for identifying dwellings that may receive housing preservation or replacement housing assistance that will require an environmental assessment. This may be accomplished through use of exhibit F-2 of this subpart (available in any Rural Development State or District Office) or another process supplying similar information acceptable to RHS.


(c) If a specific dwelling is not located in a floodplain, wetland, or the proposed work is concurred in by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation under the requirements of § 1944.673 of this subpart, no environmental review is required by Rural Development. The grantee only needs to indicate its review and compliance with this subpart, indicating such in each recipient's file in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) When an HPG proposal does not qualify as a categorical exclusion under § 1970.53 and may require either an environmental report under § 1970.54 or an environmental assessment, the applicant will immediately contact the RHS office designated to service the HPG grant. Prior to approval of HPG assistance to the recipient by the applicant, RHS must complete the environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, with the assistance of the applicant, as necessary.


(e) If Rural Development is required to make an environmental assessment, the grantee will be provided with a copy of the assessment which will be made part of the recipient's file. The grantee must also include in each recipient's file:


(1) Documentation on how the process for historic preservation review under § 1944.673 of this subpart has been complied with, including all relevant reviews and correspondence; and


(2) Determination as to whether the unit is located in a 100-year floodplain or a wetland.


(3) *Documentation of this review.* Suggested language is: “We have considered this dwelling under Rural Development's environmental and historic preservation requirements for a HPG (§§ 1944.672 and 1944.673 of this subpart) and an environmental assessment is not required. The review was completed in accordance with the process to identify properties requiring a Rural Development environmental assessment approved with our statement of activities.”


(f) Proposed use of funds by an applicant to use monies for additions under § 1944.664 (c)(11) of this subpart must be addressed in the statement of activities.


(g) Grantees must contact Rural Development prior to actual usage of funds by the grantees under § 1944.664 (c)(11) of this subpart. Rural Development must complete the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with part 1970 of this chapter.



---

[N] [58 FR 21894, Apr. 26, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 26210, May 13, 1997; 81 FR 11031, Mar. 2, 2016; 82 FR 19319, Apr. 27, 2017]




