# ยง 162.163-3   Performance, design, construction, testing, and marking requirements.

(a) The portable foam applicator must produce foam suitable for extinguishing an oil fire at a minimum foam solution rate of 200 l/min (53 gpm).


(b) The portable foam applicator must have a portable tank containing 20 liters or more of foam concentrate, along with one 20-liter spare tank. Five gallon (19 liter) foam concentrate pails are an acceptable substitute for the 20-liter tanks.


(c) Requirements for carriage of portable foam applicators may be met by the carriage of either:


(1) Portable foam applicators in accordance with this subpart, with either integral or separate eductors of fixed percentage and foam concentrate designed, constructed, tested, marked, and approved in accordance with the provisions of this section; or


(2) Components and foam concentrate from deck and heli-deck foam systems approved under approval series 162.033 of this part. Suitable components include mechanical foam nozzles with pick-up tubes, and mechanical foam nozzles with separate inline eductors, along with the corresponding foam concentrate.


(d) Each portable foam applicator to be approved under the provisions of this subpart must be of brass or bronze, except for hardware and other incidental parts which may be of rubber, plastic, or stainless steel and, in combination with a foam concentrate, must be designed, constructed, tested, and marked in accordance with the requirements of UL 162 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 162.163-1).


(e) All inspections and tests required by UL 162 must be performed by an independent laboratory accepted by the Coast Guard under subpart 159.010 of this chapter. A list of independent laboratories accepted by the Coast Guard as meeting subpart 159.010 of this chapter may be obtained by contacting the Commandant (CG-ENG-4) or at *http://cgmix.uscg.mil/eqlabs/*.


(f) The independent laboratory must prepare a report on the results of the testing and must furnish the manufacturer with a copy of the test report upon completion of the testing required by UL 162.




