# § 983.6   Maximum number of PBV units (percentage limitation).

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, a PHA may commit project-based assistance to no more than 20 percent of its authorized voucher units, as adjusted as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, at the time of commitment. An analysis of impact must be conducted in accordance with § 983.58, if a PHA is project-basing 50 percent or more of the PHA's authorized voucher units.


(1) A PHA is not required to reduce the number of units to which it has committed PBV assistance under an Agreement or HAP contract if the number of authorized voucher units is subsequently reduced and the number of PBV units consequently exceeds the program limitation.


(2) A PHA that was within the program limit prior to April 18, 2017, and exceeded the program limit on that date due solely to the change in how the program cap is calculated is not required to reduce the number of PBV units under an Agreement or HAP contract.


(3) In the circumstances described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the PHA may not add units to PBV HAP contracts, or enter into new Agreements or HAP contracts (except for HAP contracts resulting from Agreements entered into before the reduction of authorized units or April 18, 2017, as applicable), unless such units meet the conditions described in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.


(b) *Units subject to percentage limitation.* All PBV units which the PHA has selected (from the time of the proposal or project selection date) or which are under an Agreement or HAP contract for PBV assistance count toward the 20 percent maximum or increased cap, as applicable, except as provided in paragraph (e).


(c) *PHA determination.* The PHA is responsible for determining the amount of budget authority that is available for project-based vouchers and for ensuring that the amount of assistance that is attached to units is within the amounts available under the ACC.


(d) *Increased cap.* A PHA may project-base an additional 10 percent of its authorized voucher units at the time of commitment, as adjusted as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, provided the additional units meet the conditions in paragraphs (d)(1) or (2) of this section:


(1) The units are part of a HAP contract executed on or after April 18, 2017, or are added on or after that date to any current HAP contract, including a contract entered into prior to April 18, 2017, and the units fall into at least one of the following categories:


(i) The units are specifically made available to house individuals and families that meet the definition of homeless under Section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302), included in 24 CFR 578.3.


(ii) The units are specifically made available to house families that are comprised of or include a veteran. For purposes of the increased cap, a veteran means a person who served in the active military, naval, air, or space service, and who was discharged or released therefrom.


(iii) The units provide supportive housing to persons with disabilities or to elderly persons, as defined in 24 CFR 5.403. Supportive housing means that the project makes supportive services available for all of the assisted families in the project and provides a range of services tailored to the needs of the residents occupying such housing. Such supportive services need not be provided by the owner or on site but must be reasonably available to the families receiving PBV assistance in the project. The PHA's Administrative Plan must describe the type and availability of supportive services the PHA will consider as qualifying for the 10 percent increased cap.


(iv) The units are located in an area where vouchers are difficult to use as defined in § 983.3.


(v) The units replace, on a different site, the units listed in § 983.59(b)(1) and (2) for which the PHA had authority under § 983.59 to commit PBV assistance on the original site without the units counting toward the program cap or project cap. The units are eligible under this category only if the PHA has not committed and will not commit PBV assistance to the original site pursuant to the normally applicable exclusions of those units under § 983.59. If the PHA subsequently plans to commit PBV assistance to units on the original site, those proposed units count toward and must comply with the 20 percent maximum or increased cap of this section, as applicable, and the project cap requirements of § 983.54.


(2) The units are part of a HAP contract executed on or after December 27, 2020, or are added on or after that date to any current HAP contract, including a contract entered into prior to December 27, 2020, and meet the following requirements:


(i) The units are exclusively made available to eligible youth as described in Section 8(x)(2)(B) of the U.S. Housing Act; and


(ii) If the units exclusively made available to eligible youth use Family Unification Program (FUP) assistance that is normally available for eligible families and youth described in Section 8(x)(2) of the U.S. Housing Act, the PHA determines and documents that the limitation of the units to youth is consistent with the local housing needs of both eligible FUP populations (families and youth) and amends its Administrative Plan to specify that FUP PBV assistance is solely for eligible youth.


(3) The PBV HAP contract must specify, and the owner must set aside, the number of units meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii) and (d)(2) of this section. To qualify for the increased program cap for units meeting the conditions of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (ii), (iii) and (d)(2) of this section, the unit must be occupied by the type of family specified in the applicable paragraph consistent with the requirements of § 983.262.


(e) *Units previously subject to federally required rent restrictions or that received long-term rental assistance from HUD.* Units that meet the requirements of § 983.59 do not count toward the program cap. Such units are removed from the number of authorized voucher units for purposes of calculating the percentages under paragraphs (a) and (d) of this section.





---

[N] [89 FR 38307, May 7, 2024]








