# § 63.7320   By what date must I conduct performance tests or other initial compliance demonstrations?

(a) As required in § 63.7(a)(2), you must conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with each limit in:


(1) Section 63.7290(a) through (e) for emissions of particulate matter, mercury, total acid gases, HCN, and total PAH from a control device applied to pushing emissions that applies to you within 180 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283.


(2) Section 63.7296(c) through (f) for emissions of particulate matter, mercury, total acid gases, and HCN from a battery stack that applies to you within 180 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283.


(3) Section 63.7297(a) through (d) for emissions of mercury, particulate matter, total acid gases, and total PAH from a HNR HRSG main stack that applies to you within 180 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283.


(4) Section 63.7298(a) through (e) for emissions of mercury, particulate matter, total acid gases, total PAH, and formaldehyde from a HNR HRSG bypass/waste heat stack that applies to you within 180 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283.




(b) You must conduct performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the TDS limit or constituent limit for quench water in § 63.7295(a)(1) and each opacity limit in § 63.7297(a) for a by-product coke oven battery stack by the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283. 


(c) For each work practice standard and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you, you must demonstrate initial compliance within 30 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.7283. 


(d) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between July 3, 2001 and April 14, 2003, you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limit or the promulgated emission limit no later than October 14, 2003, or no later than 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix). 


(e) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between July 3, 2001 and April 14, 2003, and you chose to comply with the proposed emission limit when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a second performance test to demonstrate compliance with the promulgated emission limit by October 11, 2006, or after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix). 







---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55745, July 5, 2024]










