# ยง 625.25   Transit Asset Management Plan requirements.

(a) *General.* (1) Each tier I provider must develop and carry out a TAM plan that includes each element under paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) Each tier II provider must develop its own TAM plan or participate in a group TAM plan. A tier II provider's TAM plan and a group TAM plan only must include elements under paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.


(3) A provider's Accountable Executive is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a TAM plan is developed and carried out in accordance with this part.


(b) *Transit asset management plan elements.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a TAM plan must include the following elements:


(1) An inventory of the number and type of capital assets. The inventory must include all capital assets that a provider owns, except equipment with an acquisition value under $50,000 that is not a service vehicle. An inventory also must include third-party owned or jointly procured exclusive-use maintenance facilities, passenger station facilities, administrative facilities, rolling stock, and guideway infrastructure used by a provider in the provision of public transportation. The asset inventory must be organized at a level of detail commensurate with the level of detail in the provider's program of capital projects;


(2) A condition assessment of those inventoried assets for which a provider has direct capital responsibility. A condition assessment must generate information in a level of detail sufficient to monitor and predict the performance of the assets and to inform the investment prioritization;


(3) A description of analytical processes or decision-support tools that a provider uses to estimate capital investment needs over time and develop its investment prioritization;


(4) A provider's project-based prioritization of investments, developed in accordance with ยง 625.33 of this part;


(5) A provider's TAM and SGR policy;


(6) A provider's TAM plan implementation strategy;


(7) A description of key TAM activities that a provider intends to engage in over the TAM plan horizon period;


(8) A summary or list of the resources, including personnel, that a provider needs to develop and carry out the TAM plan; and


(9) An outline of how a provider will monitor, update, and evaluate, as needed, its TAM plan and related business practices, to ensure the continuous improvement of its TAM practices.




