# § 478.48   Reopening and revision of a reconsidered determination or a decision.

(a) *QIO reopenings*—(1) *General rule.* A QIO or QIO subcontractor that made a reconsidered determination, or conducted a review of a DRG change as described in § 478.15, that is otherwise binding, may reopen and revise the reconsidered determination or review, either on its own motion or at the request of a party, within one year from the date of the reconsidered determination or review.


(2) *Extension of time limit.* A QIO or QIO subcontractor may reopen and revise its reconsidered determination, or its review of a DRG change as described in § 478.15, that is otherwise binding, after one year but within four years of the date of the determination or review if—


(i) The QIO receives new material evidence;


(ii) The QIO erred in interpretation or application of Medicare coverage policy;


(iii) There is an error apparent on the face of the evidence upon which the reconsidered determination was based; or


(iv) There is a clerical error in the statement of the reconsidered determination.


(b) *ALJ or attorney adjudicator and Council Reopening—Applicable procedures.* The ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or the Council, whichever made the decision, may reopen and revise the decision in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 405.980 of this chapter, which concerns reopenings and revised decisions under subpart I of part 405 of this chapter.


(c) *Fraud or similar abusive practice.* A reconsidered determination, a review of a DRG change, or a decision of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator, or the Council may be reopened and revised at any time, if the reconsidered determination, review, or decision was obtained through fraud or a similar abusive practice that does not support a formal finding of fraud.



---

[N] [50 FR 15372, Apr. 17, 1985, as amended at 61 FR 32349, June 24, 1996; 62 FR 25855, May 12, 1997. Redesignated at 64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999; 77 FR 68563, Nov. 15, 2012; 82 FR 5140, Jan. 17, 2017]




