# § 721.825   Certain aromatic ether diamines.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The following chemical substances are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section: Benzenamine, 4,4′-[[1,1′-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis- (CAS Number 94148-67-1, Premanufacture notice (PMN) P-85-335); 1,2,4,5-benzenetetracarboxylic acid, diethyl ester, compound with 4,4′-[[1,1′-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine] (1:1) (PMN P-85-336); and 1,2,4,5-benzenetetracarboxylic acid, 1,4-diethyl ester, compound with 4,4′-[[1,1′-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine] (1:1), polymer with 4,4′-[[1,1′-biphenyl]-2,5-diylbis(oxy)]bis[benzenamine]-1,5-diethyl-1,2,4,5-benzenetetra carboxylate (1:1), reaction products with phthalic anhydride (PMN P-86-1153).


(2) The significant new use for P-85-335 is: Manufacture, import, or processing in a quantity of 100,000 pounds per year, or greater, for any use.


(3) The significant new use for P-85-336 is: Any use. 


(4) The significant new use for P-86-1153 is: Manufacture, import, or processing in a quantity of 225,000 pounds per year, or greater, for any use.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Persons who must report.* Section 721.5 applies to this section except § 721.5(a)(2). A person who intends to manufacture, import, or process for commercial purposes a substance identified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and intends to distribute the substance in commerce must submit a significant new use notice.


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [59 FR 43296, Aug. 23, 1994]




