# ยง 1710.409   Loan provisions.

(a) *Loan term.* The maximum term for loans under this subpart shall be 15 years unless the loans relate to ground source loop investments or technology on an aggregate basis that has a useful life greater than 15 years. Ground source loop investments as the term is used in this paragraph do not include ancillary equipment related to ground source heat pump systems.


(b) *Loan feasibility.* Loan feasibility must be demonstrated for all loans made under this subpart. Loans made under this subpart shall be secured.


(c) *Reimbursement for completed projects.* (1) A borrower may request an initial advance not to exceed five percent of the total loan amount for working capital purposes to implement an eligible EE Program;


(2) Except for the initial advance provided for in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all advances under this subpart shall be used for reimbursement of expenditures relating to a completed activity or investment; and


(3) Advances shall be in accordance with RUS procedures.


(d) *Loan amounts.* (1) Cumulative loan amounts outstanding under this subpart will be determined by the Assistant Administrator of the Electric Program and based an applicant's business plan; and


(2) Financing for administrative costs may not exceed 5 percent of the total loan amount.


(3) The Rural Utilities Service reserves the right to place a cap on both the total amount of funds an eligible entity can apply for, as well as a cap on the total amount of funds the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Program can utilize in the appropriations.




