# § 385.2011   Procedures for filing on electronic media (Rule 2011).

(a) FERC Forms subject to the procedures provided in this section include: 


(1) FERC Form No. 2, Annual report for major natural gas companies. 


(2) FERC Form No. 2-A, Annual report for nonmajor natural gas companies. 


(3) FERC Form No. 8, Underground gas storage report. 


(4) FERC Form No. 11, Natural gas pipeline monthly statement. 


(5) FERC Form No. 14, Annual report for importers and exporters of natural gas. 


(6) FERC Form No. 1, Annual report of Major electric utilities, licensees and others. 


(7) FERC Form No. 6, Annual Report of Oil Pipeline Companies. 


(8) FERC Form No. 1-F, Annual report for Nonmajor public utilities and licensees.


(9) FERC Form No. 60, Annual report of centralized service companies.


(10) FERC Form No. 714, Annual Electric Balancing Authority Area and Planning Area Report.


(11) FERC Form No. 552, Annual Report of Natural Gas Transactions.


(b) These procedures also apply to: 


(1) [Reserved]


(2) Certificate and abandonment applications filed under subparts A, E, and F of part 157 of this chapter. 


(3) Blanket certificate applications filed under subpart G of part 284 of this chapter. 


(c) *What to file.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, any filing of a schedule or an update described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be submitted on electronic media.


(2) Electronic media suitable for Commission filings are listed in the instructions for each form and filings. Additionally, lists of suitable electronic media are available upon request from the Commission.


(3) With the exception of the FERC Form Nos. 1, 1-F, 2, 2-A, 6, 60, and 714, the electronic media must be accompanied by the traditional prescribed number of paper copies.


(4) The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy are available through the Commission's website, *https://www.ferc.gov.*

(5) The subscription required by § 385.2005(a) must state that the paper copies contain the same information as contained on the electronic media, that the signer knows the contents of the paper copies and electronic media, and that the contents as stated in the copies and on the electronic media are true to the best knowledge and belief of the signer.


(d)(1) *Where to file.* The electronic media, the paper copies, and accompanying cover letter must be submitted to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426. 


(2) EDI data submissions must be made as indicated in the electronic filing instructions and formats for the particular form or filing, and the paper copies and accompanying cover letter must be submitted to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426. 


(e) *Waiver*—(1) *Filing of petition.* If a natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity does not have and is unable to acquire the computer capability to file the information required to be filed on electronic media, the company may request waiver from the requirement of this part, by filing an original and two copies of a petition. The natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity may renew the waiver if the company can continue to show that it does not have and is unable to acquire the computer capability for electric filing. 


(2) *Standard for waiver.* The petition for waiver must show that the natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity does not have the computer capability to file the information required under this section on electronic media and that acquisition of the capability would cause the company severe economic hardship. This waiver may be granted for up to one year. 


(3) *Timing.* The petition for waiver must be filed by the date on which the information in the manner affected by the petition is required to be initially filed.


(4) *Decision on petition.* The Commission or its designee will review a petition for waiver and notify the applicant of its grant or denial. Once the petition is decided, the natural gas company, electric utility, licensee or other entity will have 30 days from the date of notification of the decision to submit any information, in the manner specified by the Commission in the decision on the waiver petition, that was required to be filed while the petition was pending.



---

[N] [53 FR 15032, Apr. 27, 1988] 


