# § 599.302   Dealer application for reimbursement—submission, contents.

(a) *In general.* A dealer's application for reimbursement must demonstrate that the requirements and limitations governing qualifying transactions in § 599.300 and § 599.301 of this subpart have been met, and must comply with the submission and contents requirements of this section.


(b) *Electronic submission.* The application for reimbursement must be submitted by using the login and password provided under § 599.200(d)(1) and following the procedures provided in the letter mailed under § 599.200(c)(1) of this part.


(c) *Application contents.* An application shall consist of an electronic transaction form (portion reproduced in Appendix C to this part) requiring input of information into relevant fields, electronic copies of supporting documents, and applicable certifications, as provided in Appendix A to this part, certifications section. As its application for each transaction, the dealer shall:


(1) Input the following information into relevant fields on the transaction form:


(i) *Purchaser information.*

(A) *Name.* The first name, middle initial and last name of each purchaser, if an individual, or the full legal name of the company, association or other organization that is the purchaser.


(B) *Residence address (or, for an organization, business address).* The full address of each purchaser.


(C) *Driver's license or State identification number.* The State driver's license or State identification number of each purchaser or, for an organization, its tax identification number.


(ii) *Trade-in vehicle information.*

(A) *Make.* The make of the vehicle.


(B) *Model.* The model of the vehicle.


(C) *Model year.* The model year of the vehicle.


(D) *Vehicle identification number (VIN).* The 17 digit VIN of the vehicle.


(E) *CARS Act vehicle category.* The category of vehicle as defined under the CARS Act. (Enter, as applicable, passenger automobile, category 1 truck, category 2 truck or category 3 truck.)


(F) *State of title.*

(G) *State of registration.*

(H) *Start date of registration.*

(I) *Start date of insurance.*

(J) *End date of registration.*

(K) *Odometer reading.* The odometer reading of the vehicle at the time of the trade-in.


(L) *EPA combined fuel economy.* The listed EPA combined fuel economy of the vehicle.


(M) *Vehicle description.* The exact “vehicle description” for the vehicle found on *http://www.fueleconomy.gov.*

(iii) *New vehicle information.*

(A) *Make.* The make of the vehicle.


(B) *Model.* The model of the vehicle.


(C) *Model year.* The model year of the vehicle.


(D) *Vehicle identification number (VIN).* The 17 digit VIN of the vehicle.


(E) *EPA combined fuel economy.* The listed EPA combined fuel economy of the vehicle.


(F) *CARS Act vehicle category.* The category of vehicle as defined under the CARS Act. (Enter, as applicable, passenger automobile, category 1 truck, category 2 truck or category 3 truck.)


(G) *Base manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP).* The price of the new vehicle affixed to the Monroney label prior to the addition of any options, features, taxes or destination charges.


(H) *Vehicle description.* The exact “vehicle description” for the vehicle found on *http://www.fueleconomy.gov.*

(iv) *Trade-in vehicle disposition information.*

(A) *Identification of entity.* The name, address and telephone number of the disposal facility or salvage auction to which the vehicle will be or has been transferred or consigned.


(B) *Disposal facility number.* The unique identifier assigned to the disposal facility identified on the CARS Web site, and to which the vehicle is being transferred or consigned.


(v) *Transaction information.*

(A) *Date of sale or lease.* The date on which the vehicle transaction with the purchaser occurred.


(B) *Transaction request amount.* The amount of the credit for which the dealer is applying.


(2) Attach the following supporting documentation in electronic format (pdf, tif, jpeg) in the following order:


(i) *Proof of title.* A copy of the front and back of the title of the trade-in vehicle, showing assignment to the dealer free and clear of any lien or encumbrance on the vehicle's title, with the “Junk Automobile, CARS.gov” marking on both sides.


(ii) *Proof of insurance.* A copy of insurance policy cards or documents for the trade-in vehicle to confirm that the trade-in vehicle insurance was continuous for a period of not less than one year prior to trade in.


(iii) *Proof of registration.* A copy of the registration card or documents for the trade-in vehicle identifying the owner, the vehicle, and dates of registration to confirm that the vehicle was registered to the purchaser for a period of not less than one year prior to trade in.


(iv) *Purchaser identification.*

(v) *Summary of sale/lease and certifications form* (Appendix A to this part, summary section).


(vi) *Manufacturer certificate of origin or manufacturer statement of origin of the new vehicle.*

(vii) *CARS purchaser survey.*

(viii) *Fueleconomy.gov side-by-side comparison of the trade-in vehicle and the new vehicle.*

(ix) *Certification from salvage auction or disposal facility.*

(x) *Copy of vehicle sales or lease contract.*

(3) Make the certifications provided in Appendix A to this part, certifications section.




