# § 58.905   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning: 


(a) *Evaporated milk.* The liquid food made by evaporating sweet milk to such point that it contains not less than 6.5 percent of milkfat and not less than 16.5 percent of the total milk solids. The finished product shall conform to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for evaporated milk (21 CFR 131.130). 


(b) *Concentrated milk, plain condensed milk.* The product which conforms to the standard of identity for evaporated milk except that it is not processed by heat to prevent spoilage. The container may be unsealed, and stabilizing ingredients are not used. The finished product shall conform to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for concentrated milk (21 CFR 131.115). 


(c) *Sweetened condensed milk.* The liquid or semi-liquid food made by evaporating a mixture of sweet milk and refined sugar (sucrose) or any combination of refined sugar (sucrose) and refined corn sugar (dextrose) to such point that the finished sweetened condensed milk contains not less than 28.0 percent of total milk solids and not less than 8.0 percent of milkfat. The quantity of sugar used is sufficient to prevent spoilage. The finished product shall conform to the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for sweetened condensed milk (21 CFR 131.120). 


(d) *Ultra-pasteurized.* The product shall have been thermally processed at or above 280 °F for at least 2 seconds, either before or after packaging, so as to produce a product which has an extended shelf life under refrigerated conditions. 



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 67 FR 48976, July 29, 2002]




