# ยง 230.8   Definitions.

As used in this part, the terms listed in this section have the following definitions:


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration or the Administrator's delegate.


*Alteration.* Any change to the boiler which affects its pressure retention capability. Rating changes are considered alterations.


*ANSI.* American National Standards Institute.


*API.* American Petroleum Institute.


*ASME.* American Society of Mechanical Engineers.


*Boiler surfaces.* The boiler interior is all the space inside a boiler occupied by water or steam under pressure, and all associated surfaces inside that space exposed to that water and steam. The boiler exterior is the opposite surface of all components directly exposed to the boiler interior. This includes the fire side of the firebox sheets.


*Break.* A fracture resulting in complete separation into parts.


*Code of original construction.* The manufacturer's or industry code in effect when the boiler was constructed. If the exact code is not known, the closest contemporary code may be used provided it does not pre-date the construction date of the boiler.


*Crack.* A fracture without complete separation into parts, except that castings with shrinkage cracks or hot tears that do not significantly diminish the strength of the member are not considered to be cracked.


*Dead locomotive.* A locomotive unable to produce tractive effort.


*Fire.* Anything that produces products of combustion that heat transferring components of the locomotive are exposed to.


*FRA.* The Federal Railroad Administration.


*Locomotive operator.* Person or entity which operates, but which does not necessarily own, one or more steam locomotives. This term means, for purposes of inspection and maintenance responsibility, the entity responsible for the day-to-day operation of the steam locomotive, or the delegate thereof. This entity may be a railroad or a person or persons who operate a steam locomotive under contract for a railroad.


*Locomotive owner.* Person or entity which owns, but which does not necessarily operate, one or more steam locomotives that is operated on a railroad to which this part applies. For purposes of inspection and maintenance responsibility, this term includes that entity's delegate as well.


*MAWP.* Maximum allowable working pressure as specified by the steam locomotive specification FRA Form No. 4. (See appendix C of this part.)


*NBIC.* National Board Inspection Code published by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.


*NDE.* Non-destructive Examination.


*NPS.* Nominal Pipe Size.


*Person.* An entity of any type covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including but not limited to the following: a railroad; a manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor.


*Railroad.* Any form of non-highway ground transportation that runs on rails or electromagnetic guideways and any entity providing such transportation, including commuter or other short-haul railroad passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation on January 1, 1979; and high speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether those systems use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads; but does not include rapid transit operations in an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation.


*Renewal.* Replacement in kind with a newly manufactured or remanufactured (restored to original tolerances) component. Materials shall be suitable for the service intended.


*Repair.* Any work which results in a restoration in kind.


*Serious injury.* An injury that results in the amputation of any appendage, the loss of sight in an eye, the fracture of a bone, or the confinement in a hospital for a period of more than 24 consecutive hours.


*Service day.* Any calendar day that the boiler has steam pressure above atmospheric pressure with fire in the firebox. In the case of a fireless steam locomotive, any calendar day that the boiler has steam pressure above atmospheric pressure.


*Stayed portion of the boiler.* That portion of the boiler designed to require support to retain internal pressure by the addition of strength members, such as staybolts, braces, diagonal stays, tubes, etc.


*Steam locomotive.* A self-propelled unit of equipment powered by steam that is either designed or used for moving other equipment. This includes a self-propelled unit designed or used to carry freight and/or passenger traffic.


*Unstayed portion of the boiler.* That portion of the boiler designed to be self-supported in retaining internal pressure without additional strength members such as staybolts, braces, diagonal stays, tubes, etc.


*Wastage.* A reduction in the thickness of a mechanical component, such as a pipe or sheet.




