# § 17.1225   Payment or reimbursement for emergent suicide care.

(a) VA will not charge individuals eligible under § 17.1210 who receive care under § 17.1215 any costs for such care.


(1) For care furnished in a VA facility, VA will not charge any copayment or other costs that would otherwise be applicable under 38 CFR chapter 17.


(2) For care furnished in a non-VA facility, VA will either:


(i) Pay for the care furnished, subject to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section; or


(ii) Reimburse an individual eligible under § 17.1210 for the costs incurred by the individual for the care received, subject to paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) The amounts paid by VA for care furnished under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section will:


(1) Be established pursuant to contracts, or agreements, or


(2) If there is no amount determinable under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, VA will pay the following amounts:


(i) For care furnished in Alaska for which a VA Alaska Fee Schedule (see 38 CFR 17.56(b)) code and amount exists: The lesser of billed charges or the VA Alaska Fee Schedule amount. The VA Alaska Fee Schedule only applies to physician and non-physician professional services. The schedule uses the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act mandated national standard coding sets.


(ii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, and for which an applicable Medicare fee schedule or prospective payment system amount exists for the period in which the service was provided (without any changes based on the subsequent development of information under Medicare authorities) (hereafter “Medicare rate”): The lesser of billed charges or the applicable Medicare rate.


(iii) For care not within the scope of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, furnished by a facility currently designated as a Critical Access Hospital (CAH) by CMS, and for which a specific amount is determinable under the following methodology: The lesser of billed charges or the applicable CAH rate verified by VA. Data requested by VA to support the applicable CAH rate shall be provided upon request. Billed charges are not relevant for purposes of determining whether a specific amount is determinable under the above methodology.


(iv) For care not within the scope of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section and for which there exists a VA Fee Schedule amount for the period in which the service was performed: The lesser of billed charges or the VA Fee Schedule amount for the period in which the service was performed, as posted on *VA.gov.*

(v) For care not within the scope of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section: Billed charges.


(c) Payment by VA under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall, unless rejected and refunded within 30 calendar days of receipt, extinguish all liability on the part of the individual who received care. Neither the absence of a contract or agreement between the Secretary and the provider nor any provision of a contact, agreement, or assignment to the contrary shall operate to modify, limit, or negate this requirement.


(d) To obtain payment under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a health care provider or non-VA facility must:


(1) If the care was provided pursuant to a contract, follow all applicable provisions and instructions in such contract to receive payment.


(2) If the care was not provided pursuant to a contract with VA, submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date services were furnished. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at *www.va.gov.*

(e) To obtain reimbursement under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, an individual eligible under § 17.1210 must submit to VA a standard billing form and other information as required no later than 180 calendar days from the date the individual paid for emergent suicide care. Submission instructions, to include required forms and other information, can be found at *www.va.gov.*

(f) VA may recover costs of care it has paid or reimbursed under paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, other than for such care for a service-connected disability, if the individual who received the care is entitled to the care (or payment of the care) under a health plan contract. Such recovery procedures will generally comply with 38 CFR 17.100-17.106.






