# ยง 1268.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Affiliate* means any business entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a member.


*AMA investment grade* means a determination made by the Bank with respect to an asset or pool, based on documented analysis, including consideration of applicable insurance, credit enhancements, and other sources for repayment on the asset or pool, that the Bank has a high degree of confidence that it will be paid principal and interest in all material respects, even under reasonably likely adverse changes to expected economic conditions.


*AMA product* means a structure that is defined by a specific set of terms and conditions that comply with this part 1268 and that is established by a Bank for purposes of governing the Bank's purchase of AMA-eligible loans.


*AMA program* means a Bank-established program to buy mortgage loans that meet the requirements of this part, which may comprise multiple AMA products.


*Expected losses* means the loss on the asset or pool given the expected future economic and market conditions in the model or methodology used by the Bank under ยง 1268.5 and applicable to an AMA product.


*Participating financial institution* means a member or housing associate of a Bank that is authorized to sell, credit enhance, or service mortgage loans to or for its own Bank through an AMA program, or a member or housing associate of another Bank that has been authorized to sell, credit enhance, or service mortgage loans to or for the other Bank pursuant to an agreement between the Bank acquiring the AMA product and the Bank of which the selling institution is a member or housing associate.


*Pool* means a group of loans acquired under one or more loan funding commitments, contractual agreements, or similar arrangements.


*Qualified insurer* means an insurer that a Bank approves in accordance with ยง 1268.5(e)(1) to provide any form of mortgage insurance coverage on assets and pools purchased under an AMA program.


*Residential real property* has the meaning set forth in ยง 1266.1 of this chapter.




