# § 63.2292   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in 40 CFR 63.2, the General Provisions, and in this section as follows:


*Affected source* means the collection of dryers, refiners, blenders, formers, presses, board coolers, and other process units associated with the manufacturing of plywood and composite wood products. The affected source includes, but is not limited to, green end operations, refining, drying operations (including any combustion unit exhaust stream routinely used to direct fire process unit(s)), resin preparation, blending and forming operations, pressing and board cooling operations, and miscellaneous finishing operations (such as sanding, sawing, patching, edge sealing, and other finishing operations not subject to other NESHAP). The affected source also includes onsite storage of raw materials used in the manufacture of plywood and/or composite wood products, such as resins; onsite wastewater treatment operations specifically associated with plywood and composite wood products manufacturing; and miscellaneous coating operations (defined elsewhere in this section). The affected source includes lumber kilns at PCWP manufacturing facilities and at any other kind of facility.


*Agricultural fiber* means the fiber of an annual agricultural crop. Examples of agricultural fibers include, but are not limited to, wheat straw, rice straw, and bagasse.


*Biofilter* means an enclosed control system such as a tank or series of tanks with a fixed roof that contact emissions with a solid media (such as bark) and use microbiological activity to transform organic pollutants in a process exhaust stream to innocuous compounds such as carbon dioxide, water, and inorganic salts. Wastewater treatment systems such as aeration lagoons or activated sludge systems are not considered to be biofilters.


*Capture device* means a hood, enclosure, or other means of collecting emissions into a duct so that the emissions can be measured.


*Capture efficiency* means the fraction (expressed as a percentage) of the pollutants from an emission source that are collected by a capture device.


*Catalytic oxidizer* means a control system that combusts or oxidizes, in the presence of a catalyst, exhaust gas from a process unit. Catalytic oxidizers include regenerative catalytic oxidizers and thermal catalytic oxidizers.


*Combustion unit* means a dryer burner, process heater, or boiler. Combustion units may be used for combustion of organic HAP emissions.


*Control device* means any equipment that reduces the quantity of HAP emitted to the air. The device may destroy the HAP or secure the HAP for subsequent recovery. Control devices include, but are not limited to, thermal or catalytic oxidizers, combustion units that incinerate process exhausts, biofilters, and condensers.


*Control system or add-on control system* means the combination of capture and control devices used to reduce HAP emissions to the atmosphere.


*Conveyor strand dryer* means a conveyor dryer used to reduce the moisture of wood strands used in the manufacture of oriented strandboard, laminated strand lumber, or other wood strand-based products. A *conveyor strand dryer* is a process unit.


*Conveyor strand dryer zone* means each portion of a conveyor strand dryer with a separate heat exchange system and exhaust vent(s). Conveyor strand dryers contain multiple zones (e.g., three zones), which may be divided into multiple sections.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any compliance option, operating requirement, or work practice requirement;


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart, and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any compliance option, operating requirement, or work practice requirement in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart. A deviation is not always a violation. The determination of whether a deviation constitutes a violation of the standard is up to the discretion of the entity responsible for enforcement of the standards.


*Direct-fired process unit* means a process unit that is heated by the passing of combustion exhaust through the process unit such that the process material is contacted by the combustion exhaust.


*Dryer heated zones* means the zones of a softwood veneer dryer or fiberboard mat dryer that are equipped with heating and hot air circulation units. The cooling zone(s) of the dryer through which ambient air is blown are not part of the dryer heated zones.


*Dry forming* means the process of making a mat of resinated fiber to be compressed into a reconstituted wood product such as particleboard, oriented strandboard, medium density fiberboard, or hardboard.


*Dry rotary dryer* means a rotary dryer that dries wood particles or fibers with a maximum inlet moisture content of less than or equal to 30 percent (by weight, dry basis) and operates with a maximum inlet temperature of less than or equal to 600 °F. A dry rotary dryer is a process unit.


*Engineered wood product* means a product made with lumber, veneers, strands of wood, or from other small wood elements that are bound together with resin. Engineered wood products include, but are not limited to, laminated strand lumber, laminated veneer lumber, parallel strand lumber, wood I-joists, and glue-laminated beams.


*Fiber* means the discrete elements of wood or similar cellulosic material, which are separated by mechanical means, as in refining, that can be formed into boards.


*Fiberboard* means a composite panel composed of cellulosic fibers (usually wood or agricultural material) made by wet forming and compacting a mat of fibers. Fiberboard density generally is less than 0.50 grams per cubic centimeter (31.5 pounds per cubic foot).


*Fiberboard mat dryer* means a dryer used to reduce the moisture of wet-formed wood fiber mats by applying heat. A *fiberboard mat dryer* is a process unit.


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a combustion unit that is occupied by the flame envelope.


*Furnish* means the fibers, particles, or strands used for making boards.


*Glue-laminated beam* means a structural wood beam made by bonding lumber together along its faces with resin.


*Green rotary dryer* means a rotary dryer that dries wood particles or fibers with an inlet moisture content of greater than 30 percent (by weight, dry basis) at any dryer inlet temperature or operates with an inlet temperature of greater than 600 °F with any inlet moisture content. A *green rotary dryer* is a process unit.


*Group 1 miscellaneous coating operations* means application of edge seals, nail lines, logo (or other information) paint, shelving edge fillers, trademark/gradestamp inks, and wood putty patches to plywood and composite wood products (except kiln-dried lumber) on the same site where the plywood and composite wood products are manufactured. Group 1 miscellaneous coating operations also include application of synthetic patches to plywood at new affected sources.


*Hardboard* means a composite panel composed of inter-felted cellulosic fibers made by dry or wet forming and pressing of a resinated fiber mat. Hardboard generally has a density of 0.50 grams per cubic centimeter (31.5 pounds per cubic foot) or greater.


*Hardboard oven* means an oven used to heat treat or temper hardboard after hot pressing. Humidification chambers are not considered as part of hardboard ovens. A *hardboard oven* is a process unit.


*Hardwood* means the wood of a broad-leafed tree, either deciduous or evergreen. Examples of hardwoods include, but are not limited to, aspen, birch, poplar, and oak.


*Hardwood veneer dryer* means a dryer that removes excess moisture from veneer by conveying the veneer through a heated medium on rollers, belts, cables, or wire mesh. Hardwood veneer dryers are used to dry veneer with less than 30 percent softwood species on an annual volume basis. Veneer kilns that operate as batch units, veneer dryers heated by radio frequency or microwaves that are used to redry veneer, and veneer redryers (defined elsewhere in this section) that are heated by conventional means are not considered to be hardwood veneer dryers. A *hardwood veneer dryer* is a process unit.


*Kiln-dried lumber* means solid wood lumber that has been dried in a lumber kiln.


*Laminated strand lumber (LSL)* means a composite product formed into a billet made of thin wood strands cut from whole logs, resinated, and pressed together with the grain of each strand oriented parallel to the length of the finished product.


*Laminated veneer lumber (LVL)* means a composite product formed into a billet made from layers of resinated wood veneer sheets or pieces pressed together with the grain of each veneer aligned primarily along the length of the finished product. *Laminated veneer lumber* is also known as parallel strand lumber (PSL).


*Lumber* means boards or planks sawed or split from logs or timber, including logs or timber processed for use as utility poles or other wood components. Lumber can be either green (non-dried) or dried. Lumber is typically either air-dried or kiln-dried.


*Lumber kiln* means an enclosed dryer operated by applying heat to reduce the moisture content of lumber.


*Medium density fiberboard (MDF)* means a composite panel composed of cellulosic fibers (usually wood or agricultural fiber) made by dry forming and pressing of a resinated fiber mat.


*Method detection limit* means the minimum concentration of an analyte that can be determined with 99 percent confidence that the true value is greater than zero.


*Miscellaneous coating operations* means application of any of the following to plywood or composite wood products: edge seals, moisture sealants, anti-skid coatings, company logos, trademark or grade stamps, nail lines, synthetic patches, wood patches, wood putty, concrete forming oils, glues for veneer composing, and shelving edge fillers. Miscellaneous coating operations also include the application of primer to oriented strandboard siding that occurs at the same site as oriented strandboard manufacture and application of asphalt, clay slurry, or titanium dioxide coatings to fiberboard at the same site of fiberboard manufacture.


*Molded particleboard* means a shaped composite product (other than a composite panel) composed primarily of cellulosic materials (usually wood or agricultural fiber) generally in the form of discrete pieces or particles, as distinguished from fibers, which are pressed together with resin.


*MSF* means thousand square feet (92.9 square meters). Square footage of panels is usually measured on a thickness basis, such as 
3/8-inch, to define the total volume of panels. Equation 3 of § 63.2262(j) shows how to convert from one thickness basis to another.


*Nondetect data* means, for the purposes of this subpart, any value that is below the method detection limit.


*Non-HAP coating* means a coating with HAP contents below 0.1 percent by mass for Occupational Safety and Health Administration-defined carcinogens as specified in section A.6.4 of appendix A to 29 CFR 1910.1200, and below 1.0 percent by mass for other HAP compounds.


*1-hour period* means a 60-minute period.


*Oriented strandboard (OSB)* means a composite panel produced from thin wood strands cut from whole logs, formed into resinated layers (with the grain of strands in one layer oriented perpendicular to the strands in adjacent layers), and pressed.


*Oven-dried ton(s) (ODT)* means tons of wood dried until all of the moisture in the wood is removed. One oven-dried ton equals 907 oven-dried kilograms.


*Parallel strand lumber (PSL)* means a composite product formed into a billet made from layers of resinated wood veneer sheets or pieces pressed together with the grain of each veneer aligned primarily along the length of the finished product. *Parallel strand lumber* is also known as laminated veneer lumber (LVL).


*Partial wood products enclosure* means an enclosure that does not meet the design criteria for a wood products enclosure as defined in this subpart.


*Particle* means a discrete, small piece of cellulosic material (usually wood or agricultural fiber) produced mechanically and used as the aggregate for a particleboard.


*Particleboard* means a composite panel composed primarily of cellulosic materials (usually wood or agricultural fiber) generally in the form of discrete pieces or particles, as distinguished from fibers, which are pressed together with resin.


*Plywood* means a panel product consisting of layers of wood veneers hot pressed together with resin. Plywood includes panel products made by hot pressing (with resin) veneers to a substrate such as particleboard, medium density fiberboard, or lumber. Plywood products may be flat or curved.


*Plywood and composite wood products (PCWP) manufacturing facility* means a facility that manufactures plywood and/or composite wood products by bonding wood material (fibers, particles, strands, veneers, etc.) or agricultural fiber, generally with resin under heat and pressure, to form a panel, engineered wood product, or other product defined in § 63.2292. Plywood and composite wood products manufacturing facilities also include facilities that manufacture dry veneer and lumber kilns located at any facility. Plywood and composite wood products include, but are not limited to, plywood, veneer, particleboard, molded particleboard, oriented strandboard, hardboard, fiberboard, medium density fiberboard, laminated strand lumber, laminated veneer lumber, wood I-joists, kiln-dried lumber, and glue-laminated beams.


*Press predryer* means a dryer used to reduce the moisture and elevate the temperature by applying heat to a wet-formed fiber mat before the mat enters a hot press. A *press predryer* is a process unit.


*Pressurized refiner* means a piece of equipment operated under pressure for preheating (usually by steaming) wood material and refining (rubbing or grinding) the wood material into fibers. Pressurized refiners are operated with continuous infeed and outfeed of wood material and maintain elevated internal pressures (*i.e.*, there is no pressure release) throughout the preheating and refining process. A *pressurized refiner* is a process unit.


*Primary tube dryer* means a single-stage tube dryer or the first stage of a multi-stage tube dryer. Tube dryer stages are separated by vents for removal of moist gases between stages (*e.g.*, a product cyclone at the end of a single-stage dryer or between the first and second stages of a multi-stage tube dryer). The first stage of a multi-stage tube dryer is used to remove the majority of the moisture from the wood furnish (compared to the moisture reduction in subsequent stages of the tube dryer). Blow-lines used to apply resin are considered part of the primary tube dryer. A *primary tube dryer* is a process unit.


*Process unit* means equipment classified according to its function such as a blender, dryer, press, former, or board cooler.


*Reconstituted wood product board cooler* means a piece of equipment designed to reduce the temperature of a board by means of forced air or convection within a controlled time period after the board exits the reconstituted wood product press unloader. Board coolers include wicket and star type coolers commonly found at medium density fiberboard and particleboard plants. Board coolers do not include cooling sections of dryers (*e.g.*, veneer dryers or fiberboard mat dryers) or coolers integrated into or following hardboard bake ovens or humidifiers. A *reconstituted wood product board cooler* is a process unit.


*Reconstituted wood product press* means a press, including (if applicable) the press unloader, that presses a resinated mat of wood fibers, particles, or strands between hot platens or hot rollers to compact and set the mat into a panel by simultaneous application of heat and pressure. Reconstituted wood product presses are used in the manufacture of hardboard, medium density fiberboard, particleboard, and oriented strandboard. Extruders are not considered to be reconstituted wood product presses. A *reconstituted wood product press* is a process unit.


*Representative operating conditions* means operation of a process unit during performance testing under the conditions that the process unit will typically be operating in the future, including use of a representative range of materials (*e.g.,* wood material of a typical species mix and moisture content or typical resin formulation) and representative operating temperature range. Representative operating conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown.


*Resin* means the synthetic adhesive (including glue) or natural binder, including additives, used to bond wood or other cellulosic materials together to produce plywood and composite wood products.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2 and 40 CFR 71.2.


*Rotary strand dryer* means a rotary dryer operated by applying heat and used to reduce the moisture of wood strands used in the manufacture of oriented strandboard, laminated strand lumber, or other wood strand-based products. A *rotary strand dryer* is a process unit.


*Safety-related shutdown* means an unscheduled shutdown of a process unit subject to a compliance option in Table 1B to this subpart (or a process unit with HAP control under an emissions averaging plan developed according to § 63.2240(c)) during which time emissions from the process unit cannot be safely routed to the control system in place to meet the compliance options or operating requirements in this subpart without imminent danger to the process, control system, or system operator.


*Secondary tube dryer* means the second stage and subsequent stages following the primary stage of a multi-stage tube dryer. Secondary tube dryers, also referred to as relay dryers, operate at lower temperatures than the primary tube dryer they follow. Secondary tube dryers are used to remove only a small amount of the furnish moisture compared to the furnish moisture reduction across the primary tube dryer. A *secondary tube dryer* is a process unit.


*Softwood* means the wood of a coniferous tree. Examples of softwoods include, but are not limited to, Southern yellow pine, Douglas fir, and White spruce.


*Softwood veneer dryer* means a dryer that removes excess moisture from veneer by conveying the veneer through a heated medium, generally on rollers, belts, cables, or wire mesh. Softwood veneer dryers are used to dry veneer with greater than or equal to 30 percent softwood species on an annual volume basis. Veneer kilns that operate as batch units, veneer dryers heated by radio frequency or microwaves that are used to redry veneer, and veneer redryers (defined elsewhere in this section) that are heated by conventional means are not considered to be softwood veneer dryers. A *softwood veneer dryer* is a process unit.


*Startup* means bringing equipment online and starting the production process.


*Startup, initial* means the first time equipment is put into operation. Initial startup does not include operation solely for testing equipment. Initial startup does not include subsequent startups (as defined in this section) following malfunction or shutdowns or following changes in product or between batch operations. Initial startup does not include startup of equipment that occurred when the source was an area source.


*Strand* means a long (with respect to thickness and width), flat wood piece specially cut from a log for use in oriented strandboard, laminated strand lumber, or other wood strand-based product.


*Temporary total enclosure (TTE)* means an enclosure constructed for the purpose of measuring the capture efficiency of pollutants emitted from a given source, as defined in Method 204 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M.


*Thermal oxidizer* means a control system that combusts or oxidizes exhaust gas from a process unit. Thermal oxidizers include regenerative thermal oxidizers and combustion units.


*Total hazardous air pollutant emissions* means, for purposes of this subpart, the sum of the emissions of the following six compounds: acetaldehyde, acrolein, formaldehyde, methanol, phenol, and propionaldehyde.


*Tube dryer* means a single-stage or multi-stage dryer operated by applying heat to reduce the moisture of wood fibers or particles as they are conveyed (usually pneumatically) through the dryer. Resin may or may not be applied to the wood material before it enters the tube dryer. Tube dryers do not include pneumatic fiber transport systems that use temperature and humidity conditioned pneumatic system supply air in order to prevent cooling of the wood fiber as it is moved through the process. A *tube dryer* is a process unit.


*Veneer* means thin sheets of wood peeled or sliced from logs for use in the manufacture of wood products such as plywood, laminated veneer lumber, or other products.


*Veneer redryer* means a dryer heated by conventional means, such as direct wood-fired, direct-gas-fired, or steam heated, that is used to redry veneer that has been previously dried. Because the veneer dried in a veneer redryer has been previously dried, the inlet moisture content of the veneer entering the redryer is less than 25 percent (by weight, dry basis). Batch units used to redry veneer (such as redry cookers) are not considered to be veneer redryers. A *veneer redryer* is a process unit.


*Wet control device* means any equipment that uses water as a means of collecting an air pollutant. Wet control devices include scrubbers, wet electrostatic precipitators, and electrified filter beds. Wet control devices do not include biofilters or other equipment that destroys or degrades HAP.


*Wet forming* means the process of making a slurry of water, fiber, and additives into a mat of fibers to be compressed into a fiberboard or hardboard product.


*Wood I-joists* means a structural wood beam with an I-shaped cross section formed by bonding (with resin) wood or laminated veneer lumber flanges onto a web cut from a panel such as plywood or oriented strandboard.


*Wood products enclosure* means a permanently installed containment that was designed to meet the following physical design criteria:


(1) Any natural draft opening shall be at least four equivalent opening diameters from each HAP-emitting point, except for where board enters and exits the enclosure, unless otherwise specified by the EPA Administrator.


(2) The total area of all natural draft openings shall not exceed 5 percent of the surface area of the enclosure's four walls, floor, and ceiling.


(3) The average facial velocity of air through all natural draft openings shall be at least 3,600 meters per hour (200 feet per minute). The direction of airflow through all natural draft openings shall be into the enclosure.


(4) All access doors and windows whose areas are not included in item 2 of this definition and are not included in the calculation of facial velocity in item 3 of this definition shall be closed during routine operation of the process.


(5) The enclosure is designed and maintained to capture all emissions for discharge through a control device.


*Work practice requirement* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA. 



---

[N] [69 FR 46011, July 30, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 8372, Feb. 16, 2006; 85 FR 49460, Aug. 13, 2020]





