# § 622.514   Area and seasonal closures.

(a) *Closures applicable to specific areas*—(1) *Grammanik Bank.* The Grammanik Bank is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a)(1).


(i) From February 1 through April 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess any species of fish, except highly migratory species, in or from the Grammanik Bank. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such fish harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure. For the purpose of this paragraph (a)(1)(i), *fish* means finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all other forms of marine animal and plant life other than marine mammals and birds. *Highly migratory species* means bluefin, bigeye, yellowfin, albacore, and skipjack tunas; swordfish; sharks (listed in appendix A to part 635 of this title); and white marlin, blue marlin, sailfish, and longbill spearfish.


(ii) Fishing with pots, traps, bottom longlines, gillnets or trammel nets is prohibited year-round in the Grammanik Bank.


(2) *Hind Bank Marine Conservation District (MCD).* The Hind Bank MCD is bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the points listed in Table 2 to this paragraph (a)(2). Fishing for any species and anchoring by fishing vessels is prohibited year-round in those parts of the Hind Bank MCD that are in the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John.


(b) *Seasonal closures applicable to specific species*—(1) *Black, red, tiger, yellowedge, and yellowfin grouper closure.* From February 1 through April 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, red, tiger, yellowedge, or yellowfin grouper in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such grouper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(2) *Black, blackfin, silk, and vermilion snapper closure.* From October 1 through December 31, each year, no person may fish for or possess black, blackfin, silk, or vermilion snapper in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.


(3) *Lane and mutton snapper closure.* From April 1 through June 30, each year, no person may fish for or possess lane or mutton snapper in or from the EEZ around St. Thomas and St. John. The prohibition on possession does not apply to such snapper harvested and landed ashore prior to the closure.






