# § 165.704   Safety Zone: Savannah River, Savannah, Georgia.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a safety zone: Two hundred foot radius around Garden City Terminal, approximate position 32 degrees 8 minutes, N, 81 degrees 9.5 minutes W, and around all cargo ships loaded with military equipment and transiting the Savannah River.


(b) *Enforcement date.* This regulation was enforceable beginning at 12 p.m. on December 14, 1990.


(c) *Regulation.* In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.23, entry into the zone is subject to the following requirements.


(1) All persons and vessels in the vicinity of the safety zone shall immediately obey any direction or order of the Captain of the Port or a representative of the Captain of the Port.


(2) The “representative of the Captain of the Port” is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port, Savannah, GA to act on his behalf. A representative of the Captain of the Port may be contacted on board any Coast Guard vessel assigned to enforce the safety zone.


(3) Before entering the safety zone, a vessel operator shall contact the Captain of the Port or a representative of the Captain of the Port to determine what restrictions, if any, have been imposed on vessels in the safety zone. The Captain of the Port may be contacted by telephone via the Command Duty Officer at 912-652-4353. Coast Guard vessels assisting in the enforcement of the safety zone may be contacted on VHF-FM channels 13 or 16, or vessel operators may determine restrictions in effect for the safety zone by coming alongside a Coast Guard vessel patrolling the perimeter of the safety zone.


(4) The Captain of the Port will issue a Marine Safety Information Broadcast Notice to Mariners to Notify the maritime community of the safety zone and restrictions imposed.



---

[N] [USCG-2016-0498, 82 FR 35088, July 28, 2017]




