# § 424.44   Time limits for filing claims.

(a) *Time limits.* (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section, for services furnished on or after January 1, 2010, the claim must be filed no later than the close of the period ending 1 calendar year after the date of service.


(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section and except for services furnished during the last 3 months of 2009, for services furnished before January 1, 2010, the claim must be filed—


(i) On or before December 31 of the following year for services that were furnished during the first 9 months of a calendar year; and


(ii) On or before December 31st of the second following year for services that were furnished during the last 3 months of the calendar year.


(3) For services furnished during the last 3 months of CY 2009 all claims must be filed no later than December 31, 2010.


(b) *Exceptions to time limits.* Exceptions to the time limits for filing claims include the following:


(1) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section was caused by error or misrepresentation of an employee, Medicare contractor (including Medicare Administrative Contractor, intermediary, or carrier), or agent of HHS that was performing Medicare functions and acting within the scope of its authority.


(2) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:


(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was not entitled to Medicare.


(ii) The beneficiary subsequently received notification of Medicare entitlement effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.


(3) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:


(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was not entitled to Medicare.


(ii) The beneficiary subsequently received notification of Medicare entitlement effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.


(iii) A State Medicaid agency recovered the Medicaid payment for the furnished service from a provider or supplier 6 months or more after the service was furnished.


(4) The time for filing a claim will be extended if CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section is caused by all of the following conditions:


(i) At the time the service was furnished the beneficiary was enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization.


(ii) The beneficiary was subsequently disenrolled from the Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.


(iii) The Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization recovered its payment for the furnished service from a provider or supplier 6 months or more after the service was furnished.


(5) *Extension of time.* (i) If CMS or one of its contractors determines that a failure to meet the deadline specified in paragraph (a) of this section was caused by error or misrepresentation of an employee, Medicare contractor (including Medicare Administrative Contractor, intermediary, or carrier), or agent of HHS that was performing Medicare functions and acting within the scope of its authority, the time to file a claim will be extended through the last day of the sixth calendar month following the month in which either the beneficiary or the provider or supplier received notification that the error or misrepresentation referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section was corrected. No extension of time will be granted for paragraph (b)(1) when the request for that exception is made to CMS or one of its contractors more than 4 years after the date of service.


(ii) If CMS or one of its contractors determines that both of the conditions are met in paragraph (b)(2) of this section but that all of the conditions in paragraph (b)(3) are not satisfied, the time to file a claim will be extended through the last day of the sixth calendar month following the month in which either the beneficiary or the provider or supplier received notification of Medicare entitlement effective retroactively to or before the date of the furnished service.


(iii) If CMS or one of its contractors determines that all of the conditions are met in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the time to file a claim will be extended through the last day of the sixth calendar month following the month in which the State Medicaid agency recovered the Medicaid payment for the furnished service from the provider or supplier.


(iv) If CMS or one of its contractors determines that all of the conditions are met in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the time to file a claim will be extended through the last day of the sixth calendar month following the month in which the Medicare Advantage plan or Program of All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) provider organization recovered its payment for the furnished service from the provider or supplier.


(c) *Extension of period ending on a nonworkday.* If the last day of the period allowed under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section falls on a Federal nonworkday (a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day which by statute or Executive Order is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees), the time is extended to the next succeeding workday. 


(d) *Outpatient diabetes self-management training.* CMS makes payment in half-hour increments to an entity for the furnishing of outpatient diabetes self-management training on or after the approval date CMS approves the entity to furnish the services under part 410, subpart H of this chapter.


(e) As specified in §§ 424.520 and 424.521 of this subpart, there are restrictions on the ability of the following newly-enrolled suppliers to submit claims for items or services furnished prior to the effective date of their Medicare billing privileges:


(1) Physician or nonphysician practitioner organizations.


(2) Physicians.


(3) Nonphysician practitioners.


(4) Independent diagnostic testing facilities.



---

[N] [53 FR 6634, Mar. 2, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 83153, Dec. 29, 2000; 73 FR 69939, Nov. 19, 2008; 75 FR 73627, Nov. 29, 2010]




