# § 63.2550   What definitions apply to this subpart?

(a) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart SS of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart SS of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.981, except as specified in §§ 63.2450(k)(2) and (m), 63.2470(c)(2), 63.2475(b), and paragraph (i) of this section. 


(b) For an affected source complying with the requirements in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the terms used in this subpart and in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F have the meaning given to them in § 65.2.


(c) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart UU of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart UU of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.1020. 


(d) For an affected source complying with the requirements in subpart WW of this part 63, the terms used in this subpart and subpart WW of this part 63 have the meaning given them in § 63.1061, except as specified in §§ 63.2450(m), 63.2470(c)(2), and paragraph (i) of this section. 


(e) For an affected source complying with the requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, the terms used in this subpart and §§ 63.132 through 63.149 have the meaning given them in §§ 63.101 and 63.111, except as specified in § 63.2450(m) and paragraph (i) of this section. 


(f) For an affected source complying with the requirements in §§ 63.104 and 63.105, the terms used in this subpart and in §§ 63.104 and 63.105 of this subpart have the meaning given them in § 63.101, except as specified in §§ 63.2450(m), 63.2490(b), and paragraph (i) of this section. 


(g) For an affected source complying with requirements in §§ 63.1253, 63.1257, and 63.1258, the terms used in this subpart and in §§ 63.1253, 63.1257, and 63.1258 have the meaning given them in § 63.1251, except as specified in § 63.2450(m) and paragraph (i) of this section. 


(h) For an affected source complying with the requirements in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, the terms used in this subpart and in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, have the meaning given them in 40 CFR 65.2. 


(i) All other terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this paragraph (i). If a term is defined in § 63.2, § 63.101, § 63.111, § 63.981, § 63.1020, § 63.1061, § 63.1251, or § 65.2 and in this paragraph (i), the definition in this paragraph (i) applies for the purposes of this subpart.


*Ancillary activities* means boilers and incinerators (not used to comply with the emission limits in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart), chillers and refrigeration systems, and other equipment and activities that are not directly involved (*i.e.,* they operate within a closed system and materials are not combined with process fluids) in the processing of raw materials or the manufacturing of a product or isolated intermediate. 


*Batch operation* means a noncontinuous operation involving intermittent or discontinuous feed into equipment, and, in general, involves the emptying of the equipment after the operation ceases and prior to beginning a new operation. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not occur simultaneously in a batch operation. 


*Batch process vent* means a vent from a unit operation or vents from multiple unit operations within a process that are manifolded together into a common header, through which a HAP-containing gas stream is, or has the potential to be, released to the atmosphere. Examples of batch process vents include, but are not limited to, vents on condensers used for product recovery, reactors, filters, centrifuges, and process tanks. The following are not batch process vents for the purposes of this subpart: 


(1) Continuous process vents; 


(2) Bottoms receivers; 


(3) Surge control vessels; 


(4) Gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system(s) unless on and after August 12, 2023, the fuel gas system(s) supplies a flare of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas burned in the flare is derived from an MCPU that has processes and/or equipment in ethylene oxide service, or produces olefins or polyolefins;


(5) Vents on storage tanks, wastewater emission sources, or pieces of equipment subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 4, 6, and 7 to this subpart; 


(6) Drums, pails, and totes; 


(7) Flexible elephant trunk systems that draw ambient air (*i.e.,* the system is not ducted, piped, or otherwise connected to the unit operations) away from operators when vessels are opened; and 


(8) Except for batch process vents in ethylene oxide service, emission streams from emission episodes that are undiluted and uncontrolled containing less than 50 ppmv HAP are not part of any batch process vent. A vent from a unit operation, or a vent from multiple unit operations that are manifolded together, from which total uncontrolled HAP emissions are less than 200 lb/yr is not a batch process vent; emissions for all emission episodes associated with the unit operation(s) must be included in the determination of the total mass emitted. The HAP concentration or mass emission rate may be determined using any of the following: Process knowledge that no HAP are present in the emission stream; an engineering assessment as discussed in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii), except that you do not need to demonstrate that the equations in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) do not apply, and the precompliance reporting requirements specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii)(E) do not apply for the purposes of this demonstration; equations specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i), as applicable; test data using Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; or any other test method that has been validated according to the procedures in EPA Method 301 of appendix A to this part.


*Bench-scale process* means a process (other than a research and development facility) that is operated on a small scale, such as one capable of being located on a laboratory bench top. This bench-scale equipment will typically include reagent feed vessels, a small reactor and associated product separator, recovery and holding equipment. These processes are only capable of producing small quantities of product.


*Biofilter* means an enclosed control system such as a tank or series of tanks with a fixed roof that contact emissions with a solid media (such as bark) and use microbiological activity to transform organic pollutants in a process vent stream to innocuous compounds such as carbon dioxide, water, and inorganic salts. Wastewater treatment processes such as aeration lagoons or activated sludge systems are not considered to be biofilters.


*Bottoms receiver* means a tank that collects bottoms from continuous distillation before the stream is sent for storage or for further downstream processing. 


*Breakthrough* means the time when the level of HAP or TOC, measured at the outlet of the first bed, has been detected is at the highest concentration allowed to be discharged from the adsorber system and indicates that the adsorber bed should be replaced.


*Construction* means the onsite fabrication, erection, or installation of an affected source or MCPU. Addition of new equipment to an MCPU subject to existing source standards does not constitute construction, but it may constitute reconstruction of the affected source or MCPU if it satisfies the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2. 


*Consumption* means the quantity of all HAP raw materials entering a process in excess of the theoretical amount used as reactant, assuming 100 percent stoichiometric conversion. The raw materials include reactants, solvents, and any other additives. If a HAP is generated in the process as well as added as a raw material, consumption includes the quantity generated in the process. 


*Continuous operation* means any operation that is not a batch operation.


*Continuous process vent* means the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream if the gas stream has the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h), or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i), except: 


(1) The reference in § 63.107(e) to a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b) means an MCPU that meets the criteria of § 63.2435(b); 


(2) The reference in § 63.107(h)(4) to § 63.113 means Table 1 to this subpart; 


(3) The references in § 63.107(h)(7) to §§ 63.119 and 63.126 mean tables 4 and 5 to this subpart; and 


(4) For the purposes of § 63.2455, all references to the characteristics of a process vent (*e.g.,* flowrate, total HAP concentration, or TRE index value) mean the characteristics of the gas stream. 


(5) The reference to “total organic HAP” in § 63.107(d) means “total HAP” for the purposes of this subpart FFFF. 


(6) The references to an “air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor” in § 63.107 mean any continuous operation for the purposes of this subpart.


(7) A separate determination is required for the emissions from each MCPU, even if emission streams from two or more MCPU are combined prior to discharge to the atmosphere or to a control device.


(8) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(h)(3) applies unless the fuel gas system supplies a flare of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas burned in the flare is derived from an MCPU that has processes and/or equipment in ethylene oxide service, or produces olefins or polyolefins.


(9) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(h)(9) no longer applies.


(10) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(i) no longer applies. Instead, a process vent is the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream if the gas stream meets the criteria specified in this paragraph. The gas stream would meet the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (g) of subpart F, but, for purposes of avoiding applicability, has been deliberately interrupted, temporarily liquefied, routed through any item of equipment for no process purpose, or disposed of in a flare that does not meet the criteria in § 63.11(b) of subpart A or § 63.2450(e)(5) as applicable, or an incinerator that does not reduce emissions of organic HAP by 98 percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.


(11) Section 63.107(d) does not apply to continuous process vents in ethylene oxide service.


*Dedicated MCPU* means an MCPU that consists of equipment that is used exclusively for one process, except that storage tanks assigned to the process according to the procedures in § 63.2435(d) also may be shared by other processes. 


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source: 


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard; or 


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or 


(3) Before August 12, 2023, fails to meet any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart. On and after August 12, 2023, this paragraph (3) no longer applies.


*Emission point* means each continuous process vent, batch process vent, storage tank, transfer rack, and wastewater stream.


*Energetics* means propellants, explosives, and pyrotechnics and include materials listed at 49 CFR 172.101 as Hazard Class I Hazardous Materials, Divisions 1.1 through 1.6. 


*Equipment* means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, and instrumentation system in organic HAP service; and any control devices or systems used to comply with Table 6 to this subpart. 


*Excess emissions* means emissions greater than those allowed by the emission limit. 


*Family of materials* means a grouping of materials with the same basic composition or the same basic end use or functionality produced using the same basic feedstocks with essentially identical HAP emission profiles (primary constituent and relative magnitude on a pound per product basis) and manufacturing equipment configuration. Examples of families of materials include multiple grades of the same product or different variations of a product (*e.g.,* blue, black, and red resins). 


*Force majeure* event means a release of HAP, either directly to the atmosphere from a pressure relief device or discharged via a flare, that is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator to result from an event beyond the owner or operator's control, such as natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; loss of a utility external to the MCPU (*e.g.,* external power curtailment), excluding power curtailment due to an interruptible service agreement; and fire or explosion originating at a near or adjoining facility outside of the miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit that impacts the miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit's ability to operate.


*Group 1 batch process vent* means each of the batch process vents in a process for which the collective uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from all of the batch process vents are greater than or equal to 10,000 lb/yr at an existing source or greater than or equal to 3,000 lb/yr at a new source. 


*Group 2 batch process vent* means each batch process vent that does not meet the definition of Group 1 batch process vent. 


*Group 1 continuous process vent* means a continuous process vent for which the flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, and the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.2455(b), is less than or equal to 1.9 at an existing source and less than or equal to 5.0 at a new source.


*Group 2 continuous process vent* means a continuous process vent that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 continuous process vent. 


*Group 1 storage tank* means a storage tank with a capacity greater than or equal to 10,000 gal storing material that has a maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP greater than or equal to 6.9 kilopascals at an existing source or greater than or equal to 0.69 kilopascals at a new source. 


*Group 2 storage tank* means a storage tank that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 storage tank. 


*Group 1 transfer rack* means a transfer rack that loads more than 0.65 million liters/year of liquids that contain organic HAP with a rack-weighted average partial pressure, as defined in § 63.111, greater than or equal to 1.5 pound per square inch absolute. 


*Group 2 transfer rack* means a transfer rack that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 transfer rack. 


*Group 1 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater at an existing or new source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.2485(c) for compounds in Tables 8 and 9 to this subpart and/or a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater at a new source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(d) for compounds in Table 8 to subpart G of this part 63. 


*Group 2 wastewater stream* means any process wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream. 


*Halogen atoms* mean chlorine and fluorine.


*Halogenated vent stream* means a vent stream determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 0.45 kilograms per hour or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.115(d)(2)(v). 


*HAP metals* means the metal portion of antimony compounds, arsenic compounds, beryllium compounds, cadmium compounds, chromium compounds, cobalt compounds, lead compounds, manganese compounds, mercury compounds, nickel compounds, and selenium compounds.


*Heat exchange system* means a device or collection of devices used to transfer heat from process fluids to water without intentional direct contact of the process fluid with the water (*i.e.,* non-contact heat exchanger) and to transport and/or cool the water in a closed-loop recirculation system (cooling tower system) or a once-through system (*e.g.,* river or pond water). For closed-loop recirculation systems, the heat exchange system consists of a cooling tower, all miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit heat exchangers that are in organic HAP service, as defined in this subpart, serviced by that cooling tower, and all water lines to and from these miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit heat exchangers. For once-through systems, the heat exchange system consists of all heat exchangers that are in organic HAP service, as defined in this subpart, servicing an individual miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit and all water lines to and from these heat exchangers. Sample coolers or pump seal coolers are not considered heat exchangers for the purpose of this definition and are not part of the heat exchange system. Intentional direct contact with process fluids results in the formation of a wastewater.


*Hydrogen halide and halogen HAP* means hydrogen chloride, hydrogen fluoride, and chlorine. 


*In ethylene oxide service* means the following:


(1) For equipment leaks, any equipment that contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, the equipment is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in § 63.2492 to demonstrate that the equipment does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(2) For process vents, each batch and continuous process vent in a process that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted ethylene oxide, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents would emit uncontrolled ethylene oxide emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, then the batch or continuous process vent is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless an analysis is performed as specified in § 63.2492 to demonstrate that the batch or continuous process vent does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(3) For storage tanks, storage tanks of any capacity and vapor pressure storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, then the storage tank is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.2492 are performed to demonstrate that the storage tank does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. The exemptions for “vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities” and “pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere” listed in the definition of “storage tank” in this section do not apply for storage tanks that may be in ethylene oxide service. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


*In ethylene oxide service* means the following:


(1) For equipment leaks, any equipment that contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, the equipment is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in § 63.2492 to demonstrate that the equipment does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(2) For process vents, each batch and continuous process vent in a process that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted ethylene oxide, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents would emit uncontrolled ethylene oxide emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, then the batch or continuous process vent is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless an analysis is performed as specified in § 63.2492 to demonstrate that the batch or continuous process vent does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(3) For storage tanks, storage tanks of any capacity and vapor pressure storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, then the storage tank is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.2492 are performed to demonstrate that the storage tank does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. The exemptions for “vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities” and “pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere” listed in the definition of “storage tank” in this section do not apply for storage tanks that may be in ethylene oxide service. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


*In organic HAP service* means that a piece of equipment either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service. 


*Isolated intermediate* means a product of a process that is stored before subsequent processing. An isolated intermediate is usually a product of a chemical synthesis, fermentation, or biological extraction process. Storage of an isolated intermediate marks the end of a process. Storage occurs at any time the intermediate is placed in equipment used solely for storage. The storage equipment is part of the MCPU that produces the isolated intermediate and is not assigned as specified in § 63.2435(d).


*Large control device* means a control device that controls total HAP emissions of greater than or equal to 10 tpy, before control. 


*Loading rack* means a single system used to fill tank trucks and railcars at a single geographic site. Loading equipment and operations that are physically separate (*i.e.,* do not share common piping, valves, and other equipment) are considered to be separate loading racks.


*Maintenance wastewater* means wastewater generated by the draining of process fluid from components in the MCPU into an individual drain system in preparation for or during maintenance activities. Maintenance wastewater can be generated during planned and unplanned shutdowns and during periods not associated with a shutdown. Examples of activities that can generate maintenance wastewater include descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, cleaning of distillation column traps, draining of pumps into an individual drain system, and draining of portions of the MCPU for repair. Wastewater from routine cleaning operations occurring as part of batch operations is not considered maintenance wastewater. 


*Maximum true vapor pressure* has the meaning given in § 63.111, except that it applies to all HAP rather than only organic HAP. 


*Miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process* means all equipment which collectively function to produce a product or isolated intermediate that are materials described in § 63.2435(b). For the purposes of this subpart, process includes any, all or a combination of reaction, recovery, separation, purification, or other activity, operation, manufacture, or treatment which are used to produce a product or isolated intermediate. A process is also defined by the following: 


(1) Routine cleaning operations conducted as part of batch operations are considered part of the process; 


(2) Each nondedicated solvent recovery operation is considered a single process;


(3) Each nondedicated formulation operation is considered a single process that is used to formulate numerous materials and/or products; 


(4) Quality assurance/quality control laboratories are not considered part of any process; and


(5) Ancillary activities are not considered a process or part of any process. 


(6) The end of a process that produces a solid material is either up to and including the dryer or extruder, or for a polymer production process without a dryer or extruder, it is up to and including the die plate or solid-state reactor, except in two cases. If the dryer, extruder, die plate, or solid-state reactor is followed by an operation that is designed and operated to remove HAP solvent or residual HAP monomer from the solid, then the solvent removal operation is the last step in the process. If the dried solid is diluted or mixed with a HAP-based solvent, then the solvent removal operation is the last step in the process.


*Nondedicated solvent recovery operation* means a distillation unit or other purification equipment that receives used solvent from more than one MCPU. 


*Nonstandard batch* means a batch process that is operated outside of the range of operating conditions that are documented in an existing operating scenario but is still a reasonably anticipated event. For example, a nonstandard batch occurs when additional processing or processing at different operating conditions must be conducted to produce a product that is normally produced under the conditions described by the standard batch. A nonstandard batch may be necessary as a result of a malfunction, but it is not itself a malfunction. 


*On-site or on site* means, with respect to records required to be maintained by this subpart or required by another subpart referenced by this subpart, that records are stored at a location within a major source which encompasses the affected source. On-site includes, but is not limited to, storage at the affected source or MCPU to which the records pertain, or storage in central files elsewhere at the major source. 


*Operating scenario* means, for the purposes of reporting and recordkeeping, any specific operation of an MCPU as described by records specified in § 63.2525(b). 


*Organic group* means structures that contain primarily carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. 


*Organic peroxides* means organic compounds containing the bivalent -o-o-structure which may be considered to be a structural derivative of hydrogen peroxide where one or both of the hydrogen atoms has been replaced by an organic radical. 


*Point of determination* means each point where process wastewater exits the MCPU or control device.


*Predominant HAP* means as used in calibrating an analyzer, the single organic HAP that constitutes the largest percentage of the total organic HAP in the analyzed gas stream, by volume. 


*Pressure release* means the emission of materials resulting from the system pressure being greater than the set pressure of the pressure relief device. This release can be one release or a series of releases over a short time period.


*Pressure relief device* means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.


*Pressure vessel* means a storage vessel that is used to store liquids or gases and is designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the pressure vessel during filling of the pressure vessel to its design capacity.


*Process condenser* means a condenser whose primary purpose is to recover material as an integral part of an MCPU. All condensers recovering condensate from an MCPU at or above the boiling point or all condensers in line prior to a vacuum source are considered process condensers. Typically, a primary condenser or condensers in series are considered to be integral to the MCPU if they are capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (i.e., net positive heating value), use, reuse or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. This definition does not apply to a condenser that is used to remove materials that would hinder performance of a downstream recovery device as follows:


(1) To remove water vapor that would cause icing in a downstream condenser, or


(2) To remove water vapor that would negatively affect the adsorption capacity of carbon in a downstream carbon adsorber, or


(3) To remove high molecular weight organic compounds or other organic compounds that would be difficult to remove during regeneration of a downstream carbon adsorber.


*Process tank* means a tank or vessel that is used within a process to collect material discharged from a feedstock storage tank or equipment within the process before the material is transferred to other equipment within the process or a product storage tank. A process tank has emissions that are related to the characteristics of the batch cycle, and it does not accumulate product over multiple batches. Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers are not process tanks. 


*Production-indexed HAP consumption factor (HAP factor)* means the result of dividing the annual consumption of total HAP by the annual production rate, per process. 


*Production-indexed VOC consumption factor (VOC factor)* means the result of dividing the annual consumption of total VOC by the annual production rate, per process. 


*Quaternary ammonium compounds* means a type of organic nitrogen compound in which the molecular structure includes a central nitrogen atom joined to four organic groups as well as an acid radical of some sort. 


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment used for the purpose of recovering chemicals from process vent streams and from wastewater streams for fuel value (i.e., net positive heating value), use, reuse, or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. For the purposes of meeting requirements in table 2 to this subpart, the recovery device must not be a process condenser and must recover chemicals to be reused in a process on site. Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units. To be a recovery device for a wastewater stream, a decanter and any other equipment based on the operating principle of gravity separation must receive only multi-phase liquid streams.


*Relief valve* means a type of pressure relief device that is designed to re-close after the pressure relief.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Safety device* means a closure device such as a pressure relief valve, frangible disc, fusible plug, or any other type of device which functions exclusively to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation to a unit or its air emission control equipment by venting gases or vapors directly to the atmosphere during unsafe conditions resulting from an unplanned, accidental, or emergency event. For the purposes of this subpart, a safety device is not used for routine venting of gases or vapors from the vapor headspace underneath a cover such as during filling of the unit or to adjust the pressure in response to normal daily diurnal ambient temperature fluctuations. A safety device is designed to remain in a closed position during normal operations and open only when the internal pressure, or another relevant parameter, exceeds the device threshold setting applicable to the air emission control equipment as determined by the owner or operator based on manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, combustible, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials. 


*Shutdown* means the cessation of operation of a continuous operation for any purpose. Shutdown also means the cessation of a batch operation, or any related individual piece of equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, if the steps taken to cease operation differ from those described in a standard batch or nonstandard batch. Shutdown also applies to emptying and degassing storage vessels. Shutdown does not apply to cessation of batch operations at the end of a campaign or between batches within a campaign when the steps taken are routine operations. 


*Small control device* means a control device that controls total HAP emissions of less than 10 tpy, before control. 


*Standard batch* means a batch process operated within a range of operating conditions that are documented in an operating scenario. Emissions from a standard batch are based on the operating conditions that result in highest emissions. The standard batch defines the uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each emission episode defined under the operating scenario. 


*Startup* means the setting in operation of a continuous operation for any purpose; the first time a new or reconstructed batch operation begins production; for new equipment added, including equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, the first time the equipment is put into operation; or for the introduction of a new product/process, the first time the product or process is run in equipment. For batch operations, startup applies to the first time the equipment is put into operation at the start of a campaign to produce a product that has been produced in the past if the steps taken to begin production differ from those specified in a standard batch or nonstandard batch. Startup does not apply when the equipment is put into operation as part of a batch within a campaign when the steps taken are routine operations. 


*Storage tank* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store liquids that contain organic HAP and/or hydrogen halide and halogen HAP and that has been assigned to an MCPU according to the procedures in § 63.2435(d). The following are not considered storage tanks for the purposes of this subpart:


(1) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships; 


(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere; 


(3) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities; 


(4) Wastewater storage tanks; 


(5) Bottoms receivers; 


(6) Surge control vessels; and 


(7) Process tanks. 


*Supplemental gases* means the air that is added to a vent stream after the vent stream leaves the unit operation. Air that is part of the vent stream as a result of the nature of the unit operation is not considered supplemental gases. Air required to operate combustion device burner(s) is not considered supplemental gases. 


*Surge control vessel* means feed drums, recycle drums, and intermediate vessels as part of any continuous operation. Surge control vessels are used within an MCPU when in-process storage, mixing, or management of flowrates or volumes is needed to introduce material into continuous operations.


*Thermal expansion relief valve* means a pressure relief valve designed to protect equipment from excess pressure due to thermal expansion of blocked liquid-filled equipment or piping due to ambient heating or heat from a heat tracing system. Pressure relief valves designed to protect equipment from excess pressure due to blockage against a pump or compressor or due to fire contingency are not thermal expansion relief valves.


*Total organic compounds or (TOC)* means the total gaseous organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) in a vent stream.


*Transfer rack* means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses, at a single loading rack, that are assigned to an MCPU according to the procedures specified in § 63.2435(d) and are used to fill tank trucks and/or rail cars with organic liquids that contain one or more of the organic HAP listed in section 112(b) of the CAA of this subpart. Transfer rack includes the associated pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves. 


*Unit operation* means those processing steps that occur within distinct equipment that are used, among other things, to prepare reactants, facilitate reactions, separate and purify products, and recycle materials. Equipment used for these purposes includes, but is not limited to, reactors, distillation columns, extraction columns, absorbers, decanters, dryers, condensers, and filtration equipment. 


*Waste management* unit means the equipment, structure(s), and/or device(s) used to convey, store, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals. Examples of waste management units include wastewater tanks, air flotation units, surface impoundments, containers, oil-water or organic-water separators, individual drain systems, biological wastewater treatment units, waste incinerators, and organic removal devices such as steam and air stripper units, and thin film evaporation units. If such equipment is being operated as a recovery device, then it is part of a miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process and is not a waste management unit. 


*Wastewater* means water that is discarded from an MCPU or control device through a POD and that contains either: an annual average concentration of compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart of at least 5 ppmw and has an annual average flowrate of 0.02 liters per minute or greater; or an annual average concentration of compounds in tables 8 and 9 to this subpart of at least 10,000 ppmw at any flowrate. Wastewater means process wastewater or maintenance wastewater. The following are not considered wastewater for the purposes of this subpart:


(1) Stormwater from segregated sewers; 


(2) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems, including testing of such systems; 


(3) Spills; 


(4) Water from safety showers; 


(5) Samples of a size not greater than reasonably necessary for the method of analysis that is used; 


(6) Equipment leaks; 


(7) Wastewater drips from procedures such as disconnecting hoses after cleaning lines; and 


(8) Noncontact cooling water. 


*Wastewater stream* means a stream that contains only wastewater as defined in this paragraph (i).


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38560, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40338, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49159, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23872, Apr. 4, 2024]







