# § 10400.11   Fees to be charged—general.

IPEC will assess a fee to process FOIA requests in accordance with the provisions of this section and the “Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines” issued by the Office of Management and Budget. IPEC shall ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner. IPEC will charge the following fees unless a waiver or reduction of fees is granted under § 10400.15, or the total fee to be charged is less than $25.00. IPEC will notify the requester if IPEC estimates that charges will exceed $25.00 including a breakdown of the fees for search, review, or duplication and whether applicable entitlements to duplication and search at no charge have been provided. IPEC will not process the request until the requester either commits in writing to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees that it is willing to pay.


(a) *Search for records.* IPEC will charge $77.00 per hour, which is a blended hourly rate for all personnel that respond to FOIA requests plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits.


(b) *Review of records.* IPEC will charge $77.00 per hour, which is a blended hourly rate for all personnel that responded to FOIA requests plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits. Records or portions of records withheld under an exemption subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed to determine the applicability of exemptions not considered. The cost for a subsequent review is assessable.


(c) *Duplication of records.* IPEC will charge duplication fees to all requesters. IPEC will honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular format if IPEC can readily reproduce it in the form or format requested. If IPEC provides photocopies, IPEC will make one copy per request at the cost of $.10 per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks or other media, IPEC will charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where IPEC must scan paper documents in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, IPEC will charge the direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, IPEC will charge the direct costs. IPEC will provide the first 100 pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media) without charge except for requesters seeking records for a commercial use.


(d) *Other charges.* IPEC will recover the costs of providing other services such as certifying records or sending records by special methods.






