# ยง 1040.74   Accessibility in historic properties.

(a) *Methods to accomplish accessibility.* Recipients shall operate each program or activity involving historic properties so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The recipient shall exhaust subsection (b)(1) (methods to accomplish accessibility without building alterations or structural changes) before proceeding to subsection (b)(2) (methods to accomplish program accessibility resulting in building alterations). The recipient shall exhaust subsection (b)(2) (methods to accomplish accessibility resulting in building alterations) before proceeding to subsection (b)(3) (methods to accomplish accessibility resulting in structural changes). 


(1) *Methods to accomplish accessibility without building alterations or structural changes.* The recipient shall investigate compliance methods which do not alter the historic character or architectural integrity of the property and shall utilize such methods unless such methods are ineffective in achieving accessibility. Such methods may include, but are not limited to: 


(i) Reassigning aid, benefits, or services to accessible locations within the facility. 


(ii) Assigning persons to aid handicapped persons into or through an otherwise inaccessible facility. 


(iii) Delivering aid, benefits, or services at alternative accessible sites operated by or available for such use by the recipient. 


(iv) Adopting other innovative methods which make aid, benefits, or services accessible to the handicapped. 


(2) *Methods to accomplish accessibility resulting in building alterations.* The recipient shall determine that accessibility cannot feasibly be accomplished by Methods to Accomplish Accessibility without Building Alterations or Structural Changes, subsection (b)(1) prior to utilizing building alteration as a method of accomplishing program accessibility. Alterations must comply with the accessibility standards adopted in these regulations. Building alterations shall be undertaken so as not to alter or destroy historically, architecturally, or culturally significant elements or features. 


(3) *Methods to accomplish accessibility resulting in structural changes.* The recipient shall determine that accessibility cannot feasibly be accomplished by Methods to Accomplish Accessibility without Building Alterations or Structural Changes, subsection (b)(2) before considering structural changes as a method of accomplishing program accessibility. Structural changes must comply with the accessibility standards adopted in these regulations. Structural changes shall be undertaken so as not to alter or destroy historically, architecturally or culturally significant elements or features. 


(b) *Modification or waiver of accessibility standards.* The applicability of the accessibility standards set forth in these regulations may be modified or waived on a case-by-case basis, upon application to the Director, FAPD, where the recipient can demonstrate that, because of the nature of the activity, the provision of access would be infeasible or would substantially impair the historic, architectural or cultural integrity of the historic property.



---

[N] [45 FR 40515, June 13, 1980, as amended at 68 FR 51347, Aug. 26, 2003]




