# ยง 178.102   Procedures for submitting claims.

(a) *Content of claims.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a claim shall be submitted by the claimant in writing and must be signed by the claimant or by the claimant's representative. While no specific form is required, the request should describe the basis for the claim and state the amount sought. The claim should also include:


(1) The name, address, telephone number and facsimile machine number, if available, of the claimant;


(2) The name, address, telephone number and facsimile machine number, if available, of the agency employee who denied the claim;


(3) A copy of the denial of the claim; and,


(4) Any other information which the claimant believes OPM should consider.


(b) *Agency submissions of claims.* At the discretion of the agency, the agency may forward the claim to OPM on the claimant's behalf. The claimant is responsible for ensuring that OPM receives all the information requested in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Administrative report.* At OPM's discretion, OPM may request the agency to provide an administrative report. This report should include:


(1) The agency's factual findings;


(2) The agency's conclusions of law with relevant citations;


(3) The agency's recommendation for disposition of the claim;


(4) A complete copy of any regulation, instruction, memorandum, or policy relied upon by the agency in making its determination;


(5) A statement that the claimant is or is not a member of a collective bargaining unit, and if so, a statement that the claim is or is not covered by a negotiated grievance procedure that specifically excludes the claim from coverage; and


(6) Any other information that the agency believes OPM should consider.


(d) *Canceled checks for veterans' benefits.* Claims for the proceeds of canceled checks for veterans' benefits payable to deceased beneficiaries must be accompanied by evidence that the claimant is the duly appointed representative of the decedent's estate and that the estate will not escheat.


(e) *Where to submit claims.* (1) All claims under this section should be sent to the Program Manager, Office of Merit Systems Oversight and Effectiveness, Room 7671, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415. Telephone inquiries regarding these claims may be made to (202) 606-7948.


(2) FLSA claims should be sent to the appropriate OPM Oversight Division as provided in part 551 of this chapter.



---

[N] [62 FR 68139, Dec. 31, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 40967, July 3, 2000]




