# § 4284.1020   Applicant eligibility.

Applicants must meet certain requirements to be eligible for funding through this program. Those requirements are described as follows:


(a) *Eligible entities.* Entities are eligible for assistance through this program if all the following requirements are met:


(1) *System for Award Management (SAM) registration and unique entity identifier (UEI).* Entities must have an active registration in SAM. This registration must remain current, accurate, and complete at the time of application, while the application is under consideration for funding, and while a Recipient has an active Federal Award. This registration includes obtaining a UEI, or its successor, through *SAM.gov.*

(2) *Entity type.* The entity is organized or incorporated in a State, and it is one of the following types of organizations: Commercial Organization, Indian Tribe, Institution of Higher Education, Local Government, Nonprofit Organization, or State government. A consortium is also eligible to apply, but it must select a single organization to represent the consortium as the Applicant. Only the Applicant organization must meet the eligibility requirements.


(3) *Board of Directors.* The entity proposes to create or to continue to operate a Center that is governed by a Qualified Board of Directors.


(4) *Experience/capability to provide services.* The entity demonstrates that it has provided at least three (3) years of Producer Services prior to application or that it has the capability to provide Producer Services by hiring at least two Key Personnel who have at least three (3) years of experience providing Producer Services.


(5) *Financial capability.* The entity has the financial capability for the proposed project. In particular, the following must be true:


(i) The most recent independent audit confirms that the entity has a current ratio of at least 1:1 at the end of the fiscal year; and


(ii) The most recent independent audit confirms that the entity has sufficient cash on hand at the end of the fiscal year to cover at least three months of expenses for the proposed project.


(b) *Ineligible entities.* Entities are ineligible for assistance from this program if any of the following occurs:


(1) An outstanding judgment has been obtained against the entity by the United States in a Federal Court (other than in the United States Tax Court). The entity is ineligible for assistance until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. Funds from this program may not be used to satisfy the judgment.


(2) The entity is delinquent on the payment of Federal income taxes.


(3) The entity is delinquent on Federal debt.


(4) The entity is debarred or suspended or is otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs under Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension.” (See 2 CFR part 417 for more information.)


(5) The entity has been convicted of a felony criminal violation under any Federal law within the past 24 months.


(6) The entity has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting the tax liability, unless a Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the organization and has made a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the Government.


(7) The entity is an individual.


(8) The entity has an award through this program that is not scheduled to end until after September 30 of the year in which the application is submitted.






