# § 141.20   Actual owner's declaration and superseding bond of actual owner.

(a) *Filing*—(1) *Declaration of owner.* A consignee in whose name an entry summary for consumption, warehouse, or temporary importation under bond is filed, or in whose name a rewarehouse entry or a manufacturing warehouse entry is made, and who desires, under the provisions of section 485(d), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1485(d)), to be relieved from statutory liability for the payment of increased and additional duties shall declare at the time of the filing of the entry summary or entry documentation, as provided in § 141.19(a), that he is not the actual owner of the merchandise, furnish the name and address of the owner, and file with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically within 90 days from the time of entry (see § 141.68) a declaration of the actual owner of the merchandise acknowledging that the actual owner will pay all additional and increased duties. The declaration of owner shall be filed on Customs Form 3347. 


(2) *Bond of actual owner.* If the consignee desires to be relieved from contractual liability for the payment of increased and additional duties voluntarily assumed by him under the single-entry bond which he filed in connection with the entry documentation and/or entry summary, or under his continuous bond against which the entry and/or entry summary is charged, he shall file a bond of the actual owner on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, with CBP, either at the port of entry or electronically within 90 days from the time of entry. 


(b) *Appropriate party to execute and file.* Neither the declaration of the actual owner nor the bond of the actual owner shall be accepted unless executed by the actual owner or his duly authorized agent, and filed by the nominal consignee or his duly authorized agent. 


(c) *Nonresident actual owner.* If the actual owner is a nonresident, the actual owner's declaration shall not be accepted as compliance with section 485(d), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1485(d)), unless there is filed therewith the owner's bond on Customs Form 301, containing the bond conditions set forth in § 113.62 of this chapter, with a resident corporate surety.


(d) *Filing of declaration of owner for purposes other than relief from liability.* Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the nominal consignee from filing the actual owner's declaration without the superseding bond for purposes other than relief from statutory liability for the payment of increased and additional duties under the provisions of section 485(d), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1485(d)). 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17447, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 74-212, 39 FR 28420, Aug. 7, 1974; T.D. 79-221, 44 FR 46816, Aug. 9, 1979; T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41184, Oct. 19, 1984] 




