# ยง 160.017-27   Production tests and examination.

(a) *General.* Each ladder manufactured under Coast Guard approval must be tested in accordance with this section and subpart 159.007 of this chapter. Steps that fail testing may not be marked with the Coast Guard approval number and each assembled ladder that fails testing may not be sold as Coast Guard approved.


(b) *Test #1: Steps.* Steps must be separated into lots of 100 steps or less. One step from each lot must be selected at random and tested as described in ยง 106.017-21(c)(1), except that the step may be supported at the points where it would be attached to suspension members in an assembled ladder. If the step fails the test, ten more steps must be selected at random from the lot and tested. If one or more of the ten steps fails the test, each step in the lot must be tested.


(c) *Test #2: Ladders.* Assembled ladders must be separated into lots of 20 ladders or less One ladder must be selected at random from the ladders in the lot. The ladder selected must be at least 3 m (10 ft.) long or, if each ladder in the lot is less than 3 m long, a ladder of the longest length in the lot must be selected. The ladder must be tested as prescribed in ยง 160.017-21(c)(2), except that only a 3 m section of the ladder need be subjected to the static load. If the ladder fails the test each other ladder in the lot must be tested.


(d) *Independent laboratory.* Each production test must be conducted or supervised by an independent laboratory. However, if a test is performed more than 4 different times per year, laboratory participation is required only 4 times per year. If the laboratory does not participate in all tests, the times of laboratory participation must be as selected by the laboratory. The times selected must provide for effective monitoring throughout the production schedule.


(e) *Visual examination.* The visual examination described in ยง 160.017-21(b) must be conducted as a part of each production test.




