# § 86.096-2   Definitions.

The definitions listed in this section apply beginning with the 1996 model year. The definitions of § 86.094-2 continue to apply to 1996 and later model year vehicles.


*Certification Short Test* means the test, for gasoline-fueled Otto-cycle light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, performed in accordance with the procedures contained in 40 CFR part 86 subpart O.


*Diurnal breathing losses* means diurnal emissions.


*Diurnal emissions* means evaporative emissions resulting from the daily cycling of ambient temperatures.


*Hot soak emissions* means evaporative emissions after termination of engine operation.


*Hot-soak losses* means hot soak emissions.


*Resting losses* means evaporative emissions that may occur continuously, that are not diurnal emissions, hot soak emissions, running losses, or spitback emissions.


*Running losses* means evaporative emissions that occur during vehicle operation.


*Spitback emissions* means evaporative emissions resulting from the loss of liquid fuel that is emitted from a vehicle during a fueling operation.


*Useful life* means:


(1) For light-duty vehicles, and for light light-duty trucks not subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), intermediate useful life and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except as otherwise noted in § 86.094-9. The useful life of evaporative emission control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96 is defined as a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(2) For light light-duty trucks subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), and for heavy light-duty truck engine families, intermediate and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first. The useful life of evaporative emission control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96 is also defined as a period of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(3) For an Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine family, a period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except for the portion of evaporative emission control systems subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.1230-96, for which the applicable period of use is 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(4) For a diesel heavy-duty engine family:


(i) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(ii) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 185,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(iii) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 290,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except as provided in paragraph (4)(iv) of this definition.


(iv) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines used in urban buses, for the particulate standard, a period of use of 10 years or 290,000 miles, whichever occurs first.


(5) As an option for both light-duty trucks under certain conditions and heavy-duty engine families, an alternative useful life period assigned by the Administrator under the provisions of § 86.094-21(f).


(6) The useful-life period for purposes of the emissions defect warranty and emissions performance warranty shall be a period of 5 years/50,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for light-duty trucks, Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and light heavy-duty diesel engines. For all other heavy-duty diesel engines the aforementioned period is 5 years/100,000 miles, whichever occurs first. However, in no case may this period be less than the manufacturer's basic mechanical warranty period for the engine family.



---

[N] [58 FR 16020, Mar. 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 58417, Nov. 1, 1993]




