# § 112.30   Suspension or revocation of license.

(a) *Grounds for suspension or revocation of licenses.* The port director may revoke or suspend the license of a cartman or lighterman if:


(1) His license is not promptly produced upon demand;


(2) His vehicle or vessel is not properly marked, as required by § 112.27;


(3) The cartman or lighterman refuses or neglects to obey any proper order of a Customs officer or any Customs order, rule, or regulation relative to the cartage or lighterage of merchandise, including the making, keeping, and submitting of current written records relating to cartage and lighterage;


(4) The license was obtained through fraud or the misstatement of a material fact;


(5) The holder of such a license or an officer of a corporation holding such a license is convicted of or has committed acts which would constitute a felony, or a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime. Any change in the employment status of the corporate officer (e.g., discharge, resignation, demotion, or promotion) prior to conviction of a misdemeanor involving theft, smuggling, or a theft-connected crime, resulting from acts committed while a corporate officer, will not preclude application of this provision;


(6) The holder of such license permits it to be used by any other person;


(7) The holder of such license fails to surrender promptly, or satisfactorily explain the failure to surrender, to the port director, identification cards of persons no longer employed by him where identification cards are required pursuant to § 112,41;


(8) The holder of such license fails to furnish a current list of names and addresses of officers and members or employees when required by the port director pursuant to § 112.29;


(9) The holder is guilty of any negligence, dishonest or deceptive practices or carelessness in the conduct of his business; or


(10) The port director determines that the bond is not sufficient in amount or lacks sufficient sureties, and a satisfactory new bond with good and sufficient sureties is not furnished within a reasonable time.


(b) *Notice of revocation or suspension.* The port director shall suspend or revoke a license by serving notice of the proposed action in writing upon the holder of the license. Such notice shall be in the form of a statement specifically setting forth the grounds for revocation or suspension of the license and shall be final and conclusive upon the licensee unless he shall file with the port director a written notice of appeal in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Notice of appeal.* The licensee may file a written notice of appeal from the revocation or suspension within 10 days following receipt of the notice of revocation or suspension. The notice of appeal shall be filed in duplicate, and shall set forth the response of the licensee to the statement of the port director. The licensee in his notice of appeal may request a hearing.


(d) *Hearing on appeal*—(1) *Notification of and time of hearing.* If a hearing is requested, it shall be held before a hearing officer designated by the Secretary of the Treasury or his designee within 30 days following application therefor. The licensee shall be notified of the time and place of the hearing at least 5 days prior thereto.


(2) *Conduct of hearing.* The holder of the license may be represented by counsel at the revocation or suspension hearing. All evidence and testimony of witnesses in such proceeding, including substantiation of charges and the answer thereto, shall be presented with both parties having the right of cross-examination. A stenographic record of the proceedings shall be made and a copy thereof shall be delivered to the licensee. At the conclusion of such proceedings or review of a written appeal, the hearing officer or the port director, as the case may be, shall forthwith transmit all papers and the stenographic record of the hearing, if held, to the Commissioner of Customs, together with his recommendation for final action.


(3) *Additional arguments.* Following a hearing and within 10 calendar days after delivery of a copy of the stenographic record, the licensee may submit to the Commissioner of Customs in writing additional views and arguments on the basis of such record.


(4) *Failure to appear.* If neither the licensee nor his attorney appear for a scheduled hearing, the hearing officer shall conclude the hearing and transmit all papers with his recommendation to the Commissioner of Customs.


(e) *Decision on the appeal.* The Commissioner shall render his decision, in writing, stating his reasons therefor, with respect to the action proposed by the hearing officer or the port director. Such decision shall be transmitted to the port director and served by him on the licensee.


(f) *Review by the Court of International Trade.* Any licensee adversely affected by a decision of the Commissioner of Customs may appeal the decision in the Court of International Trade.



---

[N] [T.D. 73-140, 38 FR 13551, May 23, 1973, as amended by T.D. 85-90, 50 FR 21431, May 24, 1985; T.D. 88-63, 53 FR 40220, Oct. 14, 1988]




