# § 890.806   When can former spouses change enrollment or reenroll and what are the effective dates?

(a) *Initial opportunity to enroll.* A former spouse who has met the eligibility requirements of § 890.803 and the application time limitation requirements of § 890.805 may enroll at any time after the employing office establishes that these requirements have been met.


(b) *Effective date—generally.* (1) Except as otherwise provided, an enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request and satisfactory proof of eligibility as required by paragraph (a) of this section. If a former spouse requests immediate coverage, and the employing office receives an appropriate request and satisfactory proof of eligibility within 60 days after the date of divorce, the enrollment may be made effective on the same day that temporary continuation of coverage under subpart K of this part would otherwise take effect.


(2) A change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives the appropriate request.


(c) *Belated enrollment.* When an employing office determines that a former spouse was unable, for cause beyond his or her control, to enroll or change the enrollment within the time limits prescribed by this section, the former spouse may do so within 60 days after the employing office advises the former spouse of its determination.


(d) *Enrollment by proxy.* Subject to the discretion of the employing office, a former spouse's representative, having written authorization to do so, may enroll or change the enrollment for the former spouse.


(e) *Decreasing enrollment type.* (1) A former spouse may decrease enrollment type at any time.


(2) A decrease in enrollment type takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins after the date the employing office receives an appropriate request to change the enrollment, except that at the request of the former spouse and upon a showing satisfactory to the employing office that there was no family member eligible for coverage under the self plus one or self and family enrollment, or only one family member eligible for coverage under the self and family enrollment, as appropriate, the employing office may make the change effective on the first day of the pay period following the one in which there was, in the case of a self plus one enrollment, no family member or, in the case of a self and family enrollment, only one or no family member.


(f) *Open season.* (1) During an open season as provided by § 890.301(f)—


(i) An enrolled former spouse may decrease enrollment type, increase enrollment type provided the family member(s) to be covered under the enrollment is eligible for coverage under § 890.804, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes.


(ii) A former spouse who suspended the enrollment under this part for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage, may reenroll. 


(2) An open season reenrollment or change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the first pay period that begins in January of the next following year.


(3) When a belated open season reenrollment or change of enrollment is accepted by the employing office under paragraph (c) of this section, it takes effect as required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section.


(g) *Change in family status.* (1) An enrolled former spouse may increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another, or make any combination of these changes within the period beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the birth or acquisition of a child who meets the eligibility requirements of § 890.804.


(2) A change in enrollment under paragraph (g)(1) of this section takes effect on the first day of the pay period in which the child is born or becomes an eligible family member.


(h) *Reenrollment of former spouses who suspended enrollment to enroll in a Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB coverage.* (1) A former spouse who had been enrolled for coverage under this part and suspended enrollment for the purpose of enrolling in a Medicare sponsored plan under sections 1833, 1876, or 1851 of the Social Security Act, or to enroll in Medicaid or similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or TRICARE-for-Life coverage instead of FEHB (as provided in § 890.807(e)), or who meets the eligibility requirements of § 890.803 and the application time limitation requirements of § 890.805, but postponed enrollment in the FEHB Program for the purpose of enrolling in one of these non-FEHB programs, and who subsequently involuntarily loses coverage under one of these programs, may immediately reenroll in any available FEHB plan under this part at any time beginning 31 days before and ending 60 days after the loss of coverage. A reenrollment under this paragraph (h) of this section takes effect on the date following the effective date of the loss of coverage as shown on the documentation from the non-FEHB coverage. If the request to reenroll is not received by the employing office or retirement system within the time period specified, the former spouse must wait until the next available Open Season to reenroll. 


(2) A former spouse who suspended enrollment in the FEHB Program to enroll in a Medicare sponsored plan, or the Medicaid program or a similar State-sponsored program of medical assistance for the needy, or to use Peace Corps or CHAMPVA or TRICARE (including the Uniformed Services Family Health Plan) or the TRICARE-for-Life program, but now wants to reenroll in the FEHB Program for any reason other than an involuntary loss of coverage, may do so during the next available Open Season (as provided by paragraph (f) of this section). 


(i) [Reserved] 


(j) *Loss of coverage under this part or under another group insurance plan.* An enrolled former spouse may decrease or increase enrollment type, change from one plan or option to another or make any combination of these changes when the former spouse or a child who meets the eligibility requirements under § 890.804 loses coverage under another enrollment under this part or under another group health benefits plan. Except as otherwise provided, the former spouse must change the enrollment within the period beginning 31 days before the date of loss of coverage and ending 60 days after the date of loss of coverage, provided he or she continues to meet the eligibility requirements under § 890.803. Losses of coverage include but are not limited to—


(1) Loss of coverage under another FEHB enrollment due to the termination, cancellation, or a change to self plus one or self only, of the covering enrollment;


(2) Loss of coverage under another federally-sponsored health benefits program;


(3) Loss of coverage due to the termination of membership in an employee organization sponsoring or underwriting an FEHB plan;


(4) Loss of coverage due to the discontinuance of an FEHB plan in whole or in part. For a former spouse who loses coverage under this paragraph (j)(4)—


(i) If the discontinuance is at the end of a contract year, the former spouse must change the enrollment during the open season, unless OPM establishes a different time. If the discontinuance is at a time other than the end of the contract year, OPM must establish a time and effective date for the former spouse to change the enrollment;


(ii) If the whole plan is discontinued, a former spouse who does not change the enrollment within the time set will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n);


(iii) If one or more options of a plan are discontinued, a former spouse who does not change the enrollment will be enrolled in the remaining option of the plan, or in the case of a plan with two or more options remaining, the lowest-cost remaining option that is not a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP);


(iv) If the discontinuance of the plan, whether permanent or temporary, is due to a disaster, the former spouse must change the enrollment within 60 days of the disaster, as announced by OPM. If a former spouse does not change the enrollment within the time frame announced by OPM, the former spouse will be enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan option, as defined in § 890.301(n) of this section. The effective date of enrollment changes under this provision will be set by OPM when it makes the announcement allowing such changes;


(v) A former spouse who is unable, for causes beyond his or her control, to make an enrollment change within the 60 days following a disaster and is, as a result, enrolled in the lowest-cost nationwide plan as defined in § 890.301(n), may request a belated enrollment into the plan of his or her choice subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(5) Loss of coverage under the Medicaid program or similar State-sponsored program of Medical assistance for the needy.


(6) Loss of coverage under a non-Federal health plan.


(k) *Move from comprehensive medical plan's area.* A former spouse in a comprehensive medical plan who moves or becomes employed outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or, if already outside this area, moves or becomes employed further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the move or change of place of employment. Similarly, a former spouse whose covered family member moves outside the geographic area from which the plan accepts enrollments, or if already outside this area, moves further from this area, may change the enrollment upon notifying the employing office of the family member's move. The change of enrollment takes effect on the first day of the pay period that begins after the employing office receives an appropriate request.


(l) *On becoming eligible for Medicare.* A former spouse may change the enrollment from one plan or option to another at any time beginning on the 30th day before becoming eligible for coverage under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). A change of enrollment based on becoming eligible for Medicare may be made only once.


(m) *Annuity insufficient to pay withholdings.* (1) If the annuity of a former spouse is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge for the plan in which he or she is enrolled, the retirement system must provide the former spouse with information regarding the available plans and written notification of the opportunity to either—


(i) Pay the premium directly to the retirement system in accordance with § 890.808(d); or


(ii) Enroll in any plan with a full premium that is less than the amount of annuity. If the former spouse elects to change to a lower cost enrollment, the change takes effect immediately upon loss of coverage under the prior enrollment.


(2) If the former spouse is enrolled in the high option of a plan that has two options, and does not elect a plan with a full premium that is less than the annuity or does not elect to pay premiums directly, he or she is deemed to have enrolled in the standard option of the same plan unless the annuity is insufficient to pay the full subscription charge for the standard option.


(3) A former spouse who is enrolled in a plan with only one option, who fails to make the election required by this paragraph (m)(3) will be subject to the provisions of § 890.807(c).



---

[N] [62 FR 38440, July 18, 1997; 62 FR 49557, Sept. 22, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 49087, Sept. 26, 2001; 67 FR 41307, June 18, 2002; 70 FR 71749, Nov. 30, 2005; 72 FR 1912, Jan. 17, 2007; 80 FR 55737, Sept. 17, 2015; 80 FR 65883, Oct. 28, 2015]




