# ยง 746.204   Appeal to the Board.

(a) *Filing.* Within 60 calendar days of the date of an initial agency determination, or, as applicable, a determination by the program office on any request for reconsideration, a petitioner may file an appeal seeking review of the determination by the Board. The request must be in writing and filed with the Secretary of the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3428.


(b) *Special rule regarding change in officials.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, an appeal of an initial agency determination disapproving an individual serving as a director, committee member or senior executive officer pursuant to ยง 701.14 of this chapter must be filed with the Secretary of the Board within 15 calendar days of the date of the initial agency determination.


(c) *Failure to file a timely appeal.* Absent extenuating circumstances, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion, a petitioner who fails to file an appeal within the specified 60-day period shall be deemed to have waived all claims pertaining to the matters in issue.


(d) *Content of request.* Any appeal filed with the Board must include:


(1) A statement summarizing the underlying facts that form the basis of the appeal, together with copies of all pertinent documents, records, and materials on which the petitioner relies in support of the appeal.


(2) A statement outlining why the petitioner objects to the conclusions in the initial agency determination, including any errors alleged to have been made by the program office in reaching its determination.


(3) Any other materials or evidence relied upon by the petitioner that were not previously provided to the appropriate program office.


(e) *Burden of proof.* The burden of proof to lead the Board to modify or reverse an initial agency determination shall rest solely upon the petitioner.


(f) *Amending or supplementing the appeal.* Within 45 calendar days from the date the Secretary of the Board receives an appeal, the petitioner may amend or supplement the appeal in writing.


(g) *Request for oral hearing.* In accordance with ยง 746.207, the petitioner may request an opportunity to appear before the Board, in person, or via teleconference or videoconference, to make an oral presentation in support of the appeal.




