# § 60.5401b   What are the alternative GHG and VOC standards for process unit equipment affected facilities?

This section provides alternative standards for process unit equipment affected facilities located at an onshore natural gas processing plant. You may choose to comply with the standards in this section instead of the requirements in § 60.5400b. For purposes of the alternative standards provided in this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section to reduce methane and VOC emissions from equipment leaks, except as provided in § 60.5402b.


(a) *General standards.* You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b) of this section for each pump in light liquid service. You must comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section for each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service. You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section for each open-ended valve or line. You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section for each closed vent system and control device used to comply with equipment leak provisions in this section. You must comply with paragraph (f) of this section for each valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service. You must comply with paragraph (g) of this section for each pump, valve, and connector in heavy liquid service and pressure relief device in light liquid or heavy liquid service. You must comply with paragraph (h) of this section for each connector in gas/vapor and light liquid service. You must make repairs as specified in paragraph (i) of this section. You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards as specified in paragraph (j) of this section. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards as specified in paragraph (k) of this section. You must perform the reporting requirements as specified in paragraph (l) of this section. You must perform the recordkeeping requirements as required in paragraph (m) of this section.


(1) You may apply to the Administrator for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of methane and VOC at least equivalent to that achieved by the controls required in this subpart according to the requirements of § 60.5399b.


(2) Each piece of equipment is presumed to have the potential to emit methane or VOC unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment does not have the potential to emit methane or VOC. For a piece of equipment to be considered not to have the potential to emit methane or VOC, the methane and VOC content of a gaseous stream must be below detection limits using Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part. Alternatively, if the piece of equipment is in wet gas service, you may choose to determine the methane and VOC content of the stream is below the detection limit of the methods described in ASTM E168-16(R2023), E169-16(R2022), or E260-96 (all incorporated by reference, see § 60.17).


(b) *Pumps in light liquid service.* You must monitor each pump in light liquid service monthly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.5403b, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) through (6) of this section. A leak is defined as an instrument reading of 2,000 ppmv or greater. A pump that begins operation in light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored for the first time within 30 days after the end of its startup period, except for a pump that replaces a leaking pump and except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) through (6) of this section.


(1) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct weekly visual inspections of all pumps in light liquid service for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal, you must follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) Monitor the pump within 5 days using the methods specified in § 60.5403b. A leak is defined as an instrument reading of 2,000 ppmv or greater.


(ii) Designate the visual indications of liquids dripping as a leak, and repair the leak as specified in paragraph (i) of this section.


(2) Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section are met.


(i) Each dual mechanical seal system meets the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.


(A) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or


(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; or


(C) Equipped with a system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream with zero VOC emissions to the atmosphere.


(ii) The barrier fluid system is in heavy liquid service or does not have the potential to emit methane or VOC.


(iii) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(iv) Each pump is checked according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(v) Each sensor meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(v)(A) through (C) of this section.


(A) Each sensor as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section is checked daily or is equipped with an audible alarm.


(B) You determine, based on design considerations and operating experience, a criterion that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.


(C) If the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, based on the criterion established in paragraph (b)(2)(v)(B) of this section, a leak is detected.


(3) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(12), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (b) introductory text, (b)(1), and (2) of this section if the pump:


(i) Has no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump housing;


(ii) Is demonstrated to be operating with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background as measured by the methods specified in § 60.5403b; and


(iii) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.


(4) If any pump is equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals to a process, fuel gas system, or a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, it is exempt from paragraphs (b), (b)(1) through (3) of this section, and the repair requirements of paragraph (i) of this section.


(5) Any pump that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(13), as an unsafe-to-monitor pump is exempt from the inspection and monitoring requirements of paragraphs (b) introductory text, (b)(1), and (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section if the conditions in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(i) You demonstrate that the pump is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (b) of this section; and


(ii) You have a written plan that requires monitoring of the pump as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and you repair the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section if a leak is detected.


(6) Any pump that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirements in paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2)(iv) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section, provided that each pump is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.


(c) *Pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service.* You must monitor each pressure relief device quarterly using the methods specified in § 60.5403b. A leak is defined as an instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater above background.


(1) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (c) introductory text of this section, after each pressure release, you must monitor each pressure relief device within 5 calendar days after each pressure release to detect leaks. A leak is detected if an instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater is provided using the methods specified in § 60.5403b(b).


(2) Any pressure relief device that is located in a nonfractionating plant that is monitored only by non-plant personnel may be monitored after a pressure release the next time the monitoring personnel are onsite or within 30 calendar days after a pressure release, whichever is sooner, instead of within 5 calendar days as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(3) No pressure relief device described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be allowed to operate for more than 30 calendar days after a pressure release without monitoring.


(4) Any pressure relief device that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or equipped with a closed vent system capable of capturing and transporting leakage through the pressure relief device to a control device as described in paragraph (e) of this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c) introductory text and (c)(1) of this section.


(5) Pressure relief devices equipped with a rupture disk are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section provided you install a new rupture disk upstream of the pressure relief device as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after each pressure release, except as provided in paragraph (i)(6) of this section.


(d) *Open-ended valves or lines.* Each open-ended valve or line must be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section. The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve must seal the open end of the valve or line at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line.


(1) If evidence of a leak is found at any time by AVO, or any other detection method, a leak is detected and must be repaired in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. A leak is defined as an instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater if Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part is used.


(2) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve must be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.


(3) When a double block-and-bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall remain closed at all other times.


(4) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d) introductory text, and (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(5) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize or would present an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block-and-bleed system as specified in paragraphs (d) introductory text, (d)(2), and (3) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this section.


(e) *Closed vent systems and control devices.* Closed vent systems used to comply with the equipment leak provisions of this section must comply with the requirements in §§ 60.5411b and 60.5416b. Control devices used to comply with the equipment leak provisions of this section must comply with the requirements in §§ 60.5412b, 60.5415b(f), and 60.5417b.


(f) *Valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service.* You must monitor each valve in gas/vapor and in light liquid service quarterly to detect leaks by the methods specified in § 60.5403b, except as provided in paragraphs (f)(3) through (5) of this section.


(1) A valve that begins operation in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service after the initial startup date for the process unit must be monitored for the first time within 90 days after the end of its startup period to ensure proper installation, except for a valve that replaces a leaking valve and except as provided in paragraphs (f)(3) through (5) of this section.


(2) An instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater is a leak. You must repair each leaking valve according to the requirements in paragraph (i) of this section.


(3) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(12), for no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraph (f) of this section if the valve:


(i) Has no externally actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid;


(ii) Is operated with emissions less than 500 ppmv above background as determined by the methods specified in § 60.5403b; and


(iii) Is tested for compliance with paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator.


(4) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(13), as an unsafe-to-monitor valve is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraph (f) of this section if the requirements in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(i) You demonstrate that the valve is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (f) of this section; and


(ii) You have a written plan that requires monitoring of the valve as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and you repair the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section if a leak is detected.


(5) Any valve that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(14), as a difficult-to-monitor valve is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraph (f) of this section if the requirements in paragraph (f)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.


(i) You demonstrate that the valve cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.


(ii) The process unit within which the valve is located has less than 3.0 percent of its total number of valves designated as difficult-to-monitor.


(iii) You have a written plan that requires monitoring of the at least once per calendar year.


(g) *Pumps, valves, and connectors in heavy liquid service and pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service.* If evidence of a potential leak is found at any time by AVO, or any other detection method, you must comply with either paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section.


(1) You must monitor the equipment within 5 calendar days by the method specified in § 60.5403b and repair any leaks detected according to paragraph (i) of this section. An instrument reading of 10,000 ppmv or greater is defined as a leak.


(2) You must designate the AVO, or other indication of a leak as a leak and repair the leak according to paragraph (i) of this section.


(h) *Connectors in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.* You must initially monitor all connectors in the process unit for leaks by the later of either 12 months after the compliance date or 12 months after initial startup. If all connectors in the process unit have been monitored for leaks prior to the compliance date, no initial monitoring is required provided either no process changes have been made since the monitoring or the owner or operator can determine that the results of the monitoring, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes. If required to monitor because of a process change, you are required to monitor only those connectors involved in the process change.


(1) You must monitor all connectors in gas/vapor service and all connectors in light liquid service annually, except as provided in § 60.5399b, paragraph (e) of this section or paragraph (h)(2) of this section. If an instrument reading greater than or equal to 500 ppmv is measured, a leak is detected.


(2) Any connector that is designated, as described in § 60.5421b(b)(13), as an unsafe-to-monitor connector is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (h) introductory text and (h)(1) of this section if the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.


(i) You demonstrate the connector is unsafe-to-monitor because monitoring personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (h) introductory text and (h)(1) of this section; and


(ii) You have a written plan that requires monitoring of the connector as frequently as practicable during safe-to-monitor times, but not more frequently than the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable, and you repair the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section if a leak is detected.


(3) Inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-line connectors.


(i) Any connector that is inaccessible or that is ceramic or ceramic-lined (*e.g.,* porcelain, glass, or glass-lined), is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (h) and (h)(1) of this section, from the leak repair requirements of paragraph (i) of this section, and from the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 60.5421b and 60.5422b. An inaccessible connector is one that meets any of the specifications in paragraphs (h)(3)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, as applicable.


(A) Buried.


(B) Insulated in a manner that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe.


(C) Obstructed by equipment or piping that prevents access to the connector by a monitor probe.


(D) Unable to be reached from a wheeled scissor-lift or hydraulic-type scaffold that would allow access to connectors up to 7.6 meters (25 feet) above the ground.


(E) Inaccessible because it would require elevating monitoring personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a permanent support surface or would require the erection of scaffold.


(F) Not able to be accessed at any time in a safe manner to perform monitoring. Unsafe access includes, but is not limited to, the use of a wheeled scissor-lift on unstable or uneven terrain, the use of a motorized man-lift basket in areas where an ignition potential exists, or access would require near proximity to hazards such as electrical lines or would risk damage to equipment.


(ii) If any inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connector is observed by AVO or other means to be leaking, the indications of a leak to the atmosphere by AVO or other means must be eliminated as soon as practicable.


(4) Connectors which are part of an instrumentation systems and inaccessible, ceramic, or ceramic-lined connectors meeting the provisions of paragraph (h)(3) of this section, are not subject to the recordkeeping requirements of § 60.5421b(b)(1).


(i) *Repair requirements.* When a leak is detected, comply with the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (i)(6) of this section.


(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification tag, marked with the equipment identification number, must be attached to the leaking equipment. The identification tag on the equipment may be removed after it has been repaired.


(2) A first attempt at repair must be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.


(i) First attempts at repair for pumps in light liquid or heavy liquid service include, but are not limited to, the practices described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, where practicable.


(A) Tightening the packing gland nuts.


(B) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.


(ii) For each valve where a leak is detected, you must comply with paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, unless you meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.


(A) Repack the existing valve with a low-e packing.


(B) Replace the existing valve with a low-e valve; or


(C) Perform a drill and tap repair with a low-e injectable packing.


(D) An owner or operator is not required to utilize a low-e valve or low-e packing to replace or repack a valve if the owner or operator demonstrates that a low-e valve or low-e packing is not technically feasible. Low-e valve or low-e packing that is not suitable for its intended use is considered to be technically infeasible. Factors that may be considered in determining technical infeasibility include: retrofit requirements for installation (e.g., re-piping or space limitation), commercial unavailability for valve type, or certain instrumentation assemblies.


(3) Repair of leaking equipment must be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (i)(4), (5), or (6) of this section.


(4) If the repair for visual indications of liquids dripping for pumps in light liquid service can be made by eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping, you must make the repair within 5 calendar days of detection.


(5) If the repair for AVO or other indication of a leak for open-ended lines or valves; pumps, valves, or connectors in heavy liquid service; or pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service can be made by eliminating the AVO, or other indication of a potential leak, you must make the repair within 5 calendar days of detection.


(6) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if repair within 15 calendar days is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or as specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (v) of this section. Repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next process unit shutdown. Monitoring to verify repair must occur within 15 calendar days after startup of the process unit.


(i) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment which is isolated from the process, and which does not have the potential to emit methane or VOC.


(ii) Delay of repair for valves and connectors will be allowed if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(6)(ii)(A) and (B) are met.


(A) You demonstrate that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and


(B) When repair procedures are conducted, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with paragraph (e) of this section.


(iii) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(6)(iii)(A) and (B) are met.


(A) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, and


(B) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.


(iv) If delay of repair is required to repack or replace the valve, you may use delay of repair. Delay of repair beyond a process unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve, if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next process unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit shutdown.


(v) When delay of repair is allowed for a leaking pump, valve, or connector that remains in service, the pump, valve, or connector may be considered to be repaired and no longer subject to delay of repair requirements if two consecutive monthly monitoring results show no leak remains.


(i) *Repair requirements.* When a leak is detected, comply with the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (i)(6) of this section.


(1) A weatherproof and readily visible identification tag, marked with the equipment identification number, must be attached to the leaking equipment. The identification tag on the equipment may be removed after it has been repaired.


(2) A first attempt at repair must be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.


(i) First attempts at repair for pumps in light liquid or heavy liquid service include, but are not limited to, the practices described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, where practicable.


(A) Tightening the packing gland nuts.


(B) Ensuring that the seal flush is operating at design pressure and temperature.


(ii) For each valve where a leak is detected, you must comply with (h)(2)(ii)(A), (B) or (C), and (D) of this section.


(A) Repack the existing valve with a low-e packing.


(B) Replace the existing valve with a low-e valve; or


(C) Perform a drill and tap repair with a low-e injectable packing.


(D) An owner or operator is not required to utilize a low-e valve or low-e packing to replace or repack a valve if the owner or operator demonstrates that a low-e valve or low-e packing is not technically feasible. Low-e valve or low-e packing that is not suitable for its intended use is considered to be technically infeasible. Factors that may be considered in determining technical infeasibility include: retrofit requirements for installation (*e.g.,* re-piping or space limitation), commercial unavailability for valve type, or certain instrumentation assemblies.


(3) Repair of leaking equipment must be completed within 15 calendar days after detection of each leak, except as provided in paragraph (i)(4), (5), or (6) of this section.


(4) If the repair for visual indications of liquids dripping for pumps in light liquid service can be made by eliminating visual indications of liquids dripping, you must make the repair within 5 calendar days of detection.


(5) If the repair for AVO or other indication of a leak for open-ended lines or valves; pumps, valves, or connectors in heavy liquid service; or pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service can be made by eliminating the AVO, or other indication of a potential leak, you must make the repair within 5 calendar days of detection.


(6) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected will be allowed if repair within 15 calendar days is technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown or as specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (v) of this section. Repair of this equipment shall occur before the end of the next process unit shutdown. Monitoring to verify repair must occur within 15 calendar days after startup of the process unit.


(i) Delay of repair of equipment will be allowed for equipment which is isolated from the process, and which does not have the potential to emit methane or VOC.


(ii) Delay of repair for valves and connectors will be allowed if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(6)(ii)(A) and (B) are met.


(A) You demonstrate that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair are greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and


(B) When repair procedures are conducted, the purged material is collected and destroyed or recovered in a control device complying with paragraph (e) of this section.


(iii) Delay of repair for pumps will be allowed if the conditions in paragraphs (i)(6)(iii)(A) and (B) are met.


(A) Repair requires the use of a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system, and


(B) Repair is completed as soon as practicable, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.


(iv) If delay of repair is required to repack or replace the valve, you may use delay of repair. Delay of repair beyond a process unit shutdown will be allowed for a valve, if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit shutdown, valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the next process unit shutdown will not be allowed unless the next process unit shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit shutdown.


(v) When delay of repair is allowed for a leaking pump, valve, or connector that remains in service, the pump, valve, or connector may be considered to be repaired and no longer subject to delay of repair requirements if two consecutive monthly monitoring results show no leak remains.


(j) *Initial compliance.* You must demonstrate initial compliance with the standards that apply to equipment leaks at onshore natural gas processing plants as required by § 60.5410b(h).


(k) *Continuous compliance.* You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards that apply to equipment leaks at onshore natural gas processing plants as required by § 60.5415b(j).


(l) *Reporting.* You must perform the reporting requirements as specified in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (11) through (13), as applicable, and § 60.5422b.


(m) *Recordkeeping.* You must perform the recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(8) and (10) through (13), as applicable, and § 60.5421b.



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62893, Aug. 1, 2024]




