# ยง 155.42   Registration review cases.

(a) *Establishing registration review cases.* A registration review case will be composed of one or more active ingredients and all the products containing such ingredient(s). The Agency may group related active ingredients into a registration review case when the active ingredients are so closely related in chemical structure and toxicological profile as to allow common use of some or all required data for hazard assessment.


(1) *Existing pesticides.* The Agency will assign each pesticide registered on or before the effective date of this regulation to a registration review case.


(2) New pesticides. The Agency will assign each pesticide registered after the effective date of this regulation to an existing registration review case or to a new registration review case.


(3) A pesticide product that contains multiple active ingredients will belong to the registration review cases for each of its active ingredients.


(b) *Modifying registration review cases.* New data or information may suggest that a registration review case should be modified. The Agency may modify a registration review case in the following ways:


(1) Add a new active ingredient to a registration review case. The Agency may determine that a new active ingredient is chemically and toxicologically similar to active ingredients in an existing registration review case and should be grouped with the ingredients in the existing registration review case.


(2) Split a registration review case into two or more registration review cases. For example, new data or information may suggest that active ingredients in a registration review case are not as similar as previously believed and that they belong in two or more separate registration review cases.


(3) Move an ingredient from one registration review case to another. For example, new data or information might suggest that an ingredient should not be grouped with the other ingredients in the registration review case and that it belongs in a different registration review case.


(4) Merge two or more registration review cases into a single registration review case. For example, new data or information might suggest that the active ingredients in two or more registration review cases should be grouped together for registration review.


(5) Delete an active ingredient from a registration review case. For example, the Agency will remove the ingredient from the case if the registrations of all products containing an active ingredient in a registration review case are canceled.


(c) *Closing a registration review case.* The Agency will close a registration review case if all products in the case are canceled.


(d) *Establishing a baseline date for a registration review case.* For the purpose of scheduling registration reviews, the Agency will establish a baseline date for each registration review case. In general, the baseline date will be the date of initial registration of the oldest pesticide product in the case or the date of reregistration, whichever is later. For the purpose of these procedures, the date of reregistration is the date on which the Reregistration Eligibility Decision or Interim Reregistration Decision was signed, whichever date the Agency determines to be more appropriate based on the comprehensiveness of the review.


(1) The Agency generally will not change the baseline date for a registration review case when it modifies a case by adding or deleting ingredients or products.


(2) When the Agency splits a registration review case into two or more cases, the new case(s) generally will have the baseline date of the original registration review case.


(3) When the Agency merges two or more registration review cases into a single case, the Agency generally will use the earliest baseline date as the baseline date for the new case.


(e) *Announcing registration review cases and baseline dates.* The Agency will maintain a list of registration review cases, including baseline dates, on its website.




