# ยง 184.1446   Manganese chloride.

(a) Manganese chloride (MnCl_2_, CAS Reg. No. 7773-01-5) is a pink, translucent, crystalline product. It is also known as manganese dichloride. It is prepared by dissolving manganous oxide, pyrolusite ore (MnO_2_), or reduced manganese ore in hydrochloric acid. The resulting solution is neutralized to precipitate heavy metals, filtered, concentrated, and crystallized.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 186, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with ยง 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as a nutrient supplement as defined in ยง 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient may be used in infant formulas in accordance with section 412(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) or with regulations promulgated under section 412(a)(2) of the act.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [50 FR 19165, May 7, 1985, as amended at 76 FR 59250, Sept. 26, 2011]




