# ยง 670.11   Applications for permits.

(a) *General content of permit applications.* All applications for a permit shall be dated and signed by the applicant and shall contain the following information:


(1) The name and address of the applicant;


(i) Where the applicant is an individual, the business or institutional affiliation of the applicant must be included; or


(ii) Where the applicant is a corporation, firm, partnership, or institution, or agency, either private or public, the name and address of its president or principal officer must be included.


(2) Where the applicant seeks to engage in a taking:


(i) The scientific names, numbers, and description of native mammals, native birds, native plants or native invertebrates to be taken; and


(ii) Whether the native mammals, birds, plants, invertebrates or part of them are to be imported into the United States, and if so, their ultimate disposition.


(3) Where the applicant seeks to engage in a harmful interference, the scientific names, numbers, and description of native birds or native seals to be disturbed; the scientific names, numbers, and description of native plants to be damaged; or the scientific names, numbers, and description of native invertebrates, native mammals, native plants, or native birds whose habitat will be adversely modified;


(4) A complete description of the location, time period, and manner in which the taking or harmful interference would be conducted, including the proposed access to the location;


(5) Where the application is for the introduction of non-indigenous living organisms, the scientific name and number to be introduced;


(6) Whether agents as referred to in ยง 670.13 will be used; and


(7) The desired effective dates of the permit.


(b) *Content of specific permit applications.* In addition to the general information required for permit applications set forth in this subpart, the applicant must submit additional information relating to the specific action for which the permit is being sought. These additional requirements are set forth in the sections of this part dealing with the subject matter of the permit applications as follows:


(c) *Certification.* Applications for permits shall include the following certification:


(d) *Address to which applications should be sent.* Each application shall be in writing, addressed to:


(e) *Sufficiency of application.* The sufficiency of the application shall be determined by the Director. The Director may waive any requirement for information, or request additional information as determined to be relevant to the processing of the application.


(f) *Withdrawal.* An applicant may withdraw an application at any time.


(g) *Publication of permit applications.* The Director shall publish notice in the _Federal Register_ of each application for a permit. The notice shall invite the submission by interested parties, within 30 days after the date of publication of the notice, of written data, comments, or views with respect to the application. Information received by the Director as a part of any application shall be available to the public as a matter of public record.



---

[N] [63 FR 50164, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 86 FR 27987, May 25, 2021]




