# § 298.63   Reporting of aircraft operating expenses and related statistics by small certificated air carriers.

(a) Each small certificated air carrier shall file BTS Form 298-C, Schedule F-2 “Report of Aircraft Operating Expenses and Related Statistics.” This schedule shall be filed quarterly as prescribed in § 298.60. Data reported on this report shall be for the overall or system operations of the air carrier.


(b) Each carrier shall indicate in the space provided its full corporate name and the quarter for which the report is filed.


(c) This schedule shall show the direct and indirect expenses incurred in aircraft operations. Direct expense data applicable to each aircraft type operated by the carrier shall be reported in separate columns of this schedule. Each aircraft type reported shall be identified at the head of each column in the space provided for “Aircraft Type.” “Aircraft Type” refers to aircraft models such as Beech-18, Piper PA-32, etc. Aircraft Type designations are prescribed in the *Accounting and Reporting Directives,* which is available from the BTS' Office of Airline Information. In the space provided for “Aircraft Code” carriers shall insert the three digit code prescribed in the *Accounting and Reporting Directives* for the reported aircraft type. (_Note:_ Aircraft of the same type but different cabin configuration may be grouped into a single classification; therefore, carriers are not required to report the fourth digit of an aircraft code indicating cabin configuration.)


(d) Line 1 Direct aircraft operating expenses shall be reported in the following categories:


(1) Line 2 “Flying Operations (Less Rental)” shall be subdivided as follows:


(i) Line 3 “Pilot and Copilot” expense shall include pilots' and copilots' salaries, and related employee benefits, pensions, payroll taxes and personnel expenses.


(ii) Line 4 “Aircraft Fuel and Oil” expense shall include the cost of fuel and oil used in flight operations and nonrefundable aircraft fuel and oil taxes.


(iii) Line 5 “Other” expenses shall include general (hull) insurance, and all other expenses incurred in the in-flight operation of aircraft and holding of aircraft and aircraft operational personnel in readiness for assignment to an in-flight status, which are not provided for otherwise on this schedule.


(2) Line 6 “Total Flying Operations (Less Rentals)” shall equal the sum of lines 3, 4 and 5.


(3) Line 7 “Maintenance-Flight Equipment” shall include the cost of labor, material and related overhead expended by the carrier to maintain flight equipment, general services purchased for flight equipment maintenance from associated or other outside companies, and provisions for flight equipment overhauls.


(4) Line 8 “Depreciation and Rental-Flight Equipment” expense shall include depreciation of flight equipment, amortization of capitalized leases for flight equipment, provision for obsolescence and deterioration of spare parts, and rental expense of flight equipment.


(5) Line 9 “Total Direct Expense” shall equal the sum of lines 6, 7 and 8.


(e) Line 10 Indirect aircraft operating expenses shall be reported only in total for all aircraft types and shall be segregated according to the following categories:


(1) Line 11 “Flight Attendant Expense” shall include flight attendants' salaries, and related employee benefits, pensions, payroll taxes and personnel expenses.


(2) Line 12 “Traffic Related Expense” shall include traffic solicitor salaries, traffic commissions, passenger food expense, traffic liability insurance, advertising and other promotion and publicity expenses, and the fringe benefit expenses related to all salaries in this classification.


(3) Line 13 “Departure Related (Station) Expense” shall include aircraft and traffic handling salaries, landing fees, clearance, customs and duties, related fringe benefit expenses and maintenance and depreciation on ground property and equipment.


(4) Line 14 “Capacity Related Expense” shall include salaries and fringe benefits for general management personnel, recordkeeping and statistical personnel, lawyers and law clerks, and purchasing personnel; legal fees and expenses; stationery; printing; uncollectible accounts; insurance purchased-general; memberships; corporate and fiscal expenses; and all other expenses which cannot be identified or allocated to some other specifically identified indirect cost category.


(f) Line 15 “Total Indirect Expense” shall equal the sum of lines 11, 12, 13 and 14.


(g) Line 16 “Total Operating Expense” shall equal the sum of lines 9 and 15.


(h) Line 17 “Total Gallons of Fuel Issued” shall include the gallons of fuel used in flight operations related to fuel cost reported in total and by aircraft type on Line 4.



---

[N] [ER-1399, 50 FR 20, Jan. 2, 1985, as amended by Doc. No. 47939, 57 FR 40104, Sept. 2, 1992; 60 FR 66726, Dec. 26, 1995; 67 FR 49234, July 30, 2002]




