# ยง 1151.22   Existing facilities.

(a) A recipient shall operate each program or activity to which this part applies so that when each part is viewed in its entirety it is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not necessarily require a recipient to make each of its existing facilities or every part of a facility accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.


(b) A recipient may comply with the requirement f paragraph (a) of this section through alteration of existing facilities, the construction of new facilities, or any other methods that result in making its program or activity accessible to handicapped persons. A recipient is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with paragraph (a) of this section. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall give priority to those methods that serve handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.


(c) *Time period.* A recipient shall comply with the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section within sixty days of the effective date of this part except that where structural changes are necessary such changes shall be made as soon as possible but in no event later than three years after the effective date of this part.


(d) *Transition plan.* In the event structural changes to facilities are necessary to meet the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a recipient shall develop, within one year of the effective date of this part, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The plan shall be developed with the assistance of interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. Upon request, the recipient shall make available for public inspection a copy of the transition plan. The plan shall, at a minimum:


(1) Identify physical obstacles in the recipient's facilities that limit the accessibility of its program or activity to handicapped persons;


(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;


(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve full accessibility under paragraph (a) of this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and


(4) Indicate the person responsible for implementation of the plan.



---

[N] [44 FR 22734, Apr. 17, 1979, as amended at 68 FR 51384, Aug. 26, 2003]




