# § 1281.14   Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.

(a) *Determination of compliance with housing goals.* On an annual basis, FHFA will determine each Bank's performance under each housing goal and will publish the final determinations. FHFA will publish its final determination including the numbers and percentages for each Bank's AMA purchases that meet each of the housing goals criteria, including loans to low-income families, loans to very low-income families, and loans to families in low-income areas, including by each of the defined categories. FHFA's determination will include these numbers in total and separated into purchase money mortgages, refinancing mortgages, conventional mortgages, and non-conventional mortgages.


(b) *Failure to meet a housing goal.* If the Director determines that a Bank has failed to meet any housing goal, the Director shall notify the Bank in writing of such preliminary determination. Any notification to a Bank of a preliminary determination under this section shall provide the Bank with an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the following procedures:


(1) *Notice.* The Director shall provide written notice to a Bank of a preliminary determination under this section, the reasons for such determination, and the information on which the Director based the determination.


(2) *Response period*—(i) *In general.* During the 30-day period beginning on the date on which notice is provided under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Bank may submit to the Director any written information that the Bank considers appropriate for consideration by the Director in finally determining whether such failure has occurred or whether the achievement of such goal was feasible.


(ii) *Extended period.* The Director may extend the period under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for good cause for not more than 30 additional days.


(iii) *Shortened period.* The Director may shorten the period under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for good cause.


(iv) *Failure to respond.* The failure of a Bank to provide information during the 30-day period under this paragraph (b)(2), as extended or shortened, shall waive any right of the Bank to comment on the proposed determination or action of the Director.


(3) *Consideration of information and final determination—* (i) *In general.* After the expiration of the response period under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or receipt of information provided during such period by a Bank, the Director shall issue a final determination on:


(A) Whether the Bank has failed to meet the housing goal; and


(B) Whether, taking into consideration market and economic conditions and the financial condition of the Bank, the achievement of the housing goal was feasible.


(ii) *Considerations.* In making a final determination under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the Director shall take into consideration any relevant information submitted by a Bank during the response period.



---

[N] [75 FR 81105, Dec. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 38052, June 25, 2020]




