# § 990.195   Calculation of formula income.

(a) *General.* For the purpose of the formula, formula income is equal to the amount of rent charged to tenants divided by the respective unit months leased, and is therefore expressed as a PUM. Formula income will be derived from a PHA's year-end financial information. The financial information used in the formula income computation will be the audited information provided by the PHA through HUD's information systems. The information will be calculated using the following PHA fiscal year-end information:


(1) April 1, 2003, through March 31, 2004;


(2) July 1, 2003, through June 30, 2004;


(3) October 1, 2003, through September 30, 2004; and


(4) January 1, 2004, through December 31, 2004.


(b) *Calculation of formula income.* To calculate formula income in whole dollars, the PUM amount will be multiplied by the EUMs as described in subpart B of this part.


(c) *Frozen at 2004 level.* After a PHA's formula income is calculated as described in paragraph (a) of this section, it will not be recalculated or inflated for fiscal years 2007 through 2009, unless a PHA can show a severe local economic hardship that is impacting the PHA's ability to maintain some semblance of its formula income (see subpart G of this part—Appeals). A PHA's formula income may be recalculated if the PHA appeals to HUD for an adjustment in its formula.


(d) *Calculation of formula income when data are inadequate or unavailable.* When audited data are unavailable in HUD's information systems for the calculation of formula income, HUD may use an alternative methodology, including, but not limited to, certifications, hard copy reports, and communications with the respective PHAs.


(e) *Inapplicability of 24 CFR 85.25 (as revised April 1, 2013).* Formula income is not subject to the provisions regarding program income in 24 CFR 85.25 (as revised April 1, 2013).



---

[N] [70 FR 54997, Sept. 19, 2005; 70 FR 61367, Oct. 24, 2005; 80 FR 75943, Dec. 7, 2015]




