# ยง 102-37.455   On what categories of surplus property has GSA imposed special handling conditions or use limitations?

GSA has imposed special handling or processing requirements on the property discussed in this section. GSA may, on a case-by-case basis, prescribe additional restrictions for handling or using these items or prescribe special processing requirements on items in addition to those listed in this section. 


(a) *Aircraft and vessels.* The requirements of this section apply to the donation of any fixed- or rotary-wing aircraft and donable vessels that are 50 feet or more in length, having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more, regardless of the purpose for which donated. Such aircraft or vessels may be donated to public agencies and eligible nonprofit activities provided the aircraft or vessel is not classified for reasons of national security and any lethal characteristics are removed. The following table provides locations of other policies and procedures governing aircraft and vessels: 


(b) *Alcohol.* (1) When tax-free or specially denatured alcohol is requested for donation, the donee must have a special permit issued by the Assistant Regional Commissioner of the appropriate regional office, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), Department of the Justice, in order to acquire the property. Include the ATF use-permit number on the SF 123, Transfer Order Surplus Personal Property. 


(2) You may not store tax-free or specially denatured alcohol in SASP facilities. You must make arrangements for this property to be shipped or transported directly from the holding agency to the designated donee. 


(c) *Hazardous materials, firearms, and property with unsafe or dangerous characteristics.* For hazardous materials, firearms, and property with unsafe or dangerous characteristics, see part 101-42 of this title. 


(d) *Franked and penalty mail envelopes and official letterhead.* Franked and penalty mail envelopes and official letterhead may not be donated without the SASP certifying that all Federal Government markings will be obliterated before use.



---

[N] [67 FR 2584, Jan. 18, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 23868, Apr. 25, 2006]




