# § 423.360   Reporting and returning of overpayments.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section the following definitions are applicable:


*Applicable reconciliation* means the later of either the annual deadline for submitting—


(i) PDE data for the annual Part D payment reconciliations referred to in § 423.343(c) and (d); or


(ii) Direct and indirect remuneration data.


*Funds* for purposes of this section, means any payment that a Part D sponsor has received that is based on data submitted by the Part D sponsor to CMS for payment purposes, including data submitted under § 423.329(b)(3), § 423.336(c)(1), § 423.343, and data provided for purposes of supporting allowable costs as defined in § 423.308 which includes data submitted to CMS regarding direct or indirect remuneration.


*Overpayment* means funds that a Part D sponsor has received or retained under title XVIII of the Act to which the Part D sponsor, after applicable reconciliation, is not entitled under such title.


(b) *General rule.* If a Part D sponsor has identified that it has received an overpayment, the Part D sponsor must report and return that overpayment in the form and manner set forth in this section.


(c) *Identified overpayment.* The Part D sponsor has identified an overpayment when the Part D sponsor knowingly receives or retains an overpayment. The term “knowingly” has the meaning set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3729(b)(1)(A).


(d) *Reporting and returning of an overpayment.* A Part D sponsor must report and return any overpayment it received no later than 60 days after the date on which it identified it received an overpayment.


(1) *Reporting.* A Part D sponsor must notify CMS of the amount and reason for the overpayment, using the notification process determined by CMS.


(2) *Returning.* A Part D sponsor must return identified overpayments in a manner specified by CMS.


(e) *Enforcement.* Any overpayment retained by a Part D sponsor is an obligation under 31 U.S.C. 3729(b)(3) if not reported and returned in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Look-back period.* A Part D sponsor must report and return any overpayment identified within the 6 most recent completed payment years.



---

[N] [79 FR 29963, May 23, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 98565, Dec. 9, 2024]




