# § 1542.209   Fingerprint-based criminal history records checks (CHRC).

(a) *Scope.* The following persons are within the scope of this section—


(1) Each airport operator and airport user.


(2) Each individual currently having unescorted access to a SIDA, and each individual with authority to authorize others to have unescorted access to a SIDA (referred to as unescorted access authority).


(3) Each individual seeking unescorted access authority.


(4) Each airport user and aircraft operator making a certification to an airport operator pursuant to paragraph (n) of this section, or 14 CFR 108.31(n) in effect prior to November 14, 2001 (see 14 CFR Parts 60 to 139 revised as of January 1, 2001). An airport user, for the purposes of this section only, is any person other than an aircraft operator subject to § 1544.229 of this chapter making a certification under this section.


(b) *Individuals seeking unescorted access authority.* Except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, each airport operator must ensure that no individual is granted unescorted access authority unless the individual has undergone a fingerprint-based CHRC that does not disclose that he or she has a disqualifying criminal offense, as described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Individuals who have not had a CHRC.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (m) of this section, each airport operator must ensure that after December 6, 2002, no individual retains unescorted access authority, unless the airport operator has obtained and submitted a fingerprint under this part.


(2) When a CHRC discloses a disqualifying criminal offense for which the conviction or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity was on or after December 6, 1991, the airport operator must immediately suspend that individual's authority.


(d) *Disqualifying criminal offenses.* An individual has a disqualifying criminal offense if the individual has been convicted, or found not guilty of by reason of insanity, of any of the disqualifying crimes listed in this paragraph (d) in any jurisdiction during the 10 years before the date of the individual's application for unescorted access authority, or while the individual has unescorted access authority. The disqualifying criminal offenses are as follows—


(1) Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violation; 49 U.S.C. 46306.


(2) Interference with air navigation; 49 U.S.C. 46308.


(3) Improper transportation of a hazardous material; 49 U.S.C. 46312.


(4) Aircraft piracy; 49 U.S.C. 46502.


(5) Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants; 49 U.S.C. 46504.


(6) Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight; 49 U.S.C. 46506.


(7) Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft; 49 U.S.C. 46505.


(8) Conveying false information and threats; 49 U.S.C. 46507.


(9) Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States; 49 U.S.C. 46502(b).


(10) Lighting violations involving transporting controlled substances; 49 U.S.C. 46315.


(11) Unlawful entry into an aircraft or airport area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements; 49 U.S.C. 46314.


(12) Destruction of an aircraft or aircraft facility; 18 U.S.C. 32.


(13) Murder.


(14) Assault with intent to murder.


(15) Espionage.


(16) Sedition.


(17) Kidnapping or hostage taking.


(18) Treason.


(19) Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.


(20) Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.


(21) Extortion.


(22) Armed or felony unarmed robbery.


(23) Distribution of, or intent to distribute, a controlled substance.


(24) Felony arson.


(25) Felony involving a threat.


(26) Felony involving—


(i) Willful destruction of property;


(ii) Importation or manufacture of a controlled substance;


(iii) Burglary;


(iv) Theft;


(v) Dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation;


(vi) Possession or distribution of stolen property;


(vii) Aggravated assault;


(viii) Bribery; or


(ix) Illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year.


(27) Violence at international airports; 18 U.S.C. 37.


(28) Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed in this paragraph (d).


(e) *Fingerprint application and processing.* (1) At the time of fingerprinting, the airport operator must provide the individual to be fingerprinted a fingerprint application that includes only the following—


(i) The disqualifying criminal offenses described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(ii) A statement that the individual signing the application does not have a disqualifying criminal offense.


(iii) A statement informing the individual that Federal regulations under 49 CFR 1542.209 (l) impose a continuing obligation to disclose to the airport operator within 24 hours if he or she is convicted of any disqualifying criminal offense that occurs while he or she has unescorted access authority. After February 17, 2002, the airport operator may use statements that have already been printed referring to 14 CFR 107.209 until stocks of such statements are used up.


(iv) A statement reading, “The information I have provided on this application is true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and is provided in good faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false statement on this application can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both. (See section 1001 of Title 18 United States Code.)”


(v) A line for the printed name of the individual.


(vi) A line for the individual's signature and date of signature.


(2) Each individual must complete and sign the application prior to submitting his or her fingerprints.


(3) The airport operator must verify the identity of the individual through two forms of identification prior to fingerprinting, and ensure that the printed name on the fingerprint application is legible. At least one of the two forms of identification must have been issued by a government authority, and at least one must include a photo.


(4) The airport operator must advise the individual that:


(i) A copy of the criminal record received from the FBI will be provided to the individual, if requested by the individual in writing; and


(ii) The ASC is the individual's point of contact if he or she has questions about the results of the CHRC.


(5) The airport operator must collect, control, and process one set of legible and classifiable fingerprints under direct observation of the airport operator or a law enforcement officer.


(6) Fingerprints may be obtained and processed electronically, or recorded on fingerprint cards approved by the FBI and distributed by TSA for that purpose.


(7) The fingerprint submission must be forwarded to TSA in the manner specified by TSA.


(f) *Fingerprinting fees.* Airport operators must pay for all fingerprints in a form and manner approved by TSA. The payment must be made at the designated rate (available from the local TSA security office) for each set of fingerprints submitted. Information about payment options is available though the designated TSA headquarters point of contact. Individual personal checks are not acceptable.


(g) *Determination of arrest status.* (1) When a CHRC on an individual seeking unescorted access authority discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense listed in paragraph (d) of this section without indicating a disposition, the airport operator must determine, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying offense before granting that authority. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.


(2) When a CHRC on an individual with unescorted access authority discloses an arrest for any disqualifying criminal offense without indicating a disposition, the airport operator must suspend the individual's unescorted access authority not later than 45 days after obtaining the CHRC unless the airport operator determines, after investigation, that the arrest did not result in a disqualifying criminal offense. If there is no disposition, or if the disposition did not result in a conviction or in a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity of one of the offenses listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the individual is not disqualified under this section.


(3) The airport operator may only make the determinations required in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for individuals for whom it is issuing, or has issued, unescorted access authority, and who are not covered by a certification from an aircraft operator under paragraph (n) of this section. The airport operator may not make determinations for individuals described in § 1544.229 of this chapter.


(h) *Correction of FBI records and notification of disqualification.* (1) Before making a final decision to deny unescorted access authority to an individual described in paragraph (b) of this section, the airport operator must advise him or her that the FBI criminal record discloses information that would disqualify him or her from receiving or retaining unescorted access authority and provide the individual with a copy of the FBI record if he or she requests it.


(2) The airport operator must notify an individual that a final decision has been made to grant or deny unescorted access authority.


(3) Immediately following the suspension of unescorted access authority of an individual, the airport operator must advise him or her that the FBI criminal record discloses information that disqualifies him or her from retaining unescorted access authority and provide the individual with a copy of the FBI record if he or she requests it.


(i) *Corrective action by the individual.* The individual may contact the local jurisdiction responsible for the information and the FBI to complete or correct the information contained in his or her record, subject to the following conditions—


(1) For an individual seeking unescorted access authority on or after December 6, 2001, the following applies:


(i) Within 30 days after being advised that the criminal record received from the FBI discloses a disqualifying criminal offense, the individual must notify the airport operator in writing of his or her intent to correct any information he or she believes to be inaccurate. The airport operator must obtain a copy, or accept a copy from the individual, of the revised FBI record, or a certified true copy of the information from the appropriate court, prior to granting unescorted access authority.


(ii) If no notification, as described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, is received within 30 days, the airport operator may make a final determination to deny unescorted access authority.


(2) For an individual with unescorted access authority before December 6, 2001, the following applies: Within 30 days after being advised of suspension because the criminal record received from the FBI discloses a disqualifying criminal offense, the individual must notify the airport operator in writing of his or her intent to correct any information he or she believes to be inaccurate. The airport operator must obtain a copy, or accept a copy from the individual, of the revised FBI record, or a certified true copy of the information from the appropriate court, prior to reinstating unescorted access authority.


(j) *Limits on dissemination of results.* Criminal record information provided by the FBI may be used only to carry out this section and § 1544.229 of this chapter. No person may disseminate the results of a CHRC to anyone other than:


(1) The individual to whom the record pertains, or that individual's authorized representative.


(2) Officials of other airport operators who are determining whether to grant unescorted access to the individual under this part.


(3) Aircraft operators who are determining whether to grant unescorted access to the individual or authorize the individual to perform screening functions under part 1544 of this chapter.


(4) Others designated by TSA.




(k) *Recordkeeping.* The airport operator must maintain the following information associated with an individual's current identification (ID) media in electronic or paper form, as authorized by TSA:


(1) *Fingerprint application.* Except when the airport operator has received a certification under paragraph (n) of this section, the airport operator must physically maintain, control, and, as appropriate, destroy the fingerprint application and the criminal record. Only direct airport operator employees may carry out the responsibility for maintaining, controlling, and destroying criminal records.


(2) *Certifications.* The airport operator must maintain the certifications provided under paragraph (n) of this section.


(3) *Protection of records.* The records required by this section must be maintained in a manner that is acceptable to TSA and in a manner that protects the confidentiality of the individual.


(4) *Duration.* The records identified in this section with regard to an individual must be maintained until 180 days after the termination of the individual's unescorted access authority. When files are no longer maintained, the criminal record must be destroyed.






(l) *Continuing responsibilities.* (1) Each individual with unescorted access authority on December 6, 2001, who had a disqualifying criminal offense in paragraph (d) of this section on or after December 6, 1991, must, by January 7, 2002, report the conviction to the airport operator and surrender the SIDA access medium to the issuer.


(2) Each individual with unescorted access authority who has a disqualifying criminal offense must report the offense to the airport operator and surrender the SIDA access medium to the issuer within 24 hours of the conviction or the finding of not guilty by reason of insanity.


(3) If information becomes available to the airport operator or the airport user indicating that an individual with unescorted access authority has a disqualifying criminal offense, the airport operator must determine the status of the conviction. If a disqualifying offense is confirmed the airport operator must immediately revoke any unescorted access authority.


(m) *Exceptions.* Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, an airport operator must authorize the following individuals to have unescorted access authority:


(1) An employee of the Federal, state, or local government (including a law enforcement officer) who, as a condition of employment, has been subjected to an employment investigation that includes a criminal records check.


(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, an airport operator may authorize the following individuals to have unescorted access authority:


(i) An individual who has been continuously employed in a position requiring unescorted access authority by another airport operator, airport user, or aircraft operator, or contractor to such an entity, provided the grant for his or her unescorted access authority was based upon a fingerprint-based CHRC through TSA or FAA.


(ii) An individual who has been continuously employed by an aircraft operator or aircraft operator contractor, in a position with authority to perform screening functions, provided the grant for his or her authority to perform screening functions was based upon a fingerprint-based CHRC through TSA or FAA.


(n) *Certifications by aircraft operators.* An airport operator is in compliance with its obligation under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section when the airport operator accepts, for each individual seeking unescorted access authority, certification from an aircraft operator subject to part 1544 of this chapter indicating it has complied with § 1544.229 of this chapter for the aircraft operator's employees and contractors seeking unescorted access authority. If the airport operator accepts a certification from the aircraft operator, the airport operator may not require the aircraft operator to provide a copy of the CHRC.


(o) *Airport operator responsibility.* The airport operator must—


(1) Designate the ASC, in the security program, or a direct employee if the ASC is not a direct employee, to be responsible for maintaining, controlling, and destroying the criminal record files when their maintenance is no longer required by paragraph (k) of this section.


(2) Designate the ASC, in the security program, to serve as the contact to receive notification from individuals applying for unescorted access authority of their intent to seek correction of their FBI criminal record.


(3) Audit the employment history investigations performed by the airport operator in accordance with this section and 14 CFR 107.31 in effect prior to November 14, 2001 (see 14 CFR Parts 60 through 139 revised as of January 1, 2001), and those investigations conducted by the airport users who provided certification to the airport operator. The audit program must be set forth in the airport security program.


(p) *Airport user responsibility.* (1) The airport user must report to the airport operator information, as it becomes available, that indicates an individual with unescorted access authority may have a disqualifying criminal offense.


(2) The airport user must maintain and control, in compliance with paragraph (k) of this section, the employment history investigation files for investigations conducted before December 6, 2001, unless the airport operator decides to maintain and control the employment history investigation file.


(3) The airport user must provide the airport operator with either the name or title of the individual acting as custodian of the files described in this paragraph (p), the address of the location where the files are maintained, and the phone number of that location. The airport user must provide the airport operator and TSA with access to these files.





---

[N] [67 FR 8355, Feb. 22, 2002, as amended at 90 FR 3719, Jan. 15, 2025]






