# § 201.66   Repayment of Federal funds by installments.

(a) *Basic conditions.* When a State has been reimbursed Federal funds for expenditures claimed under titles I, IV-A, X, XIV, XVI (AABD) which are later determined to be unallowable for Federal financial participation, the State may make repayment of such Federal funds in installments provided:


(1) The amount of the repayment exceeds 2
1/2 percent of the estimated annual State share for the program in which the unallowable expenditure occurred as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section; and


(2) The State has notified the Regional Administrator in writing of its intent to make installment repayments. Such notice must be given prior to the time repayment of the total was otherwise due.


(b) *Criteria governing installment repayments.* (1) The number of quarters over which the repayment of the total unallowable expenditures will be made will be determined by the percentage the total of such repayment is of the estimated State share of the annual expenditures for the specific program against which the recovery is made, as follows:


(2) The latest State Agency Statement of Financial Plan for AFDC submitted by the State shall be used to estimate the State's share of annual expenditures for the specific program in which the unallowable expenditures occurred. That estimated share shall be the sum of the State's share of the estimates (as shown on the latest State Agency Statement of Financial Plan for AFDC) for four quarters, beginning with the quarter in which the first installment is to be paid.


(3) In the case of a program terminated by law or by the State, the actual State share—rather than the estimate—shall be used for determining whether the amount of the repayment exceeds 2
1/2% of the annual State share for the program. The annual State share in these cases will be determined using payments computable for Federal funding as reported for the program by the State on its Quarterly Statement of Expenditures reports submitted for the last four quarters preceding the date on which the program was terminated.


(4) Repayment shall be accomplished through adjustment in the quarterly grants over the period covered by the repayment schedule.


(5) The amount of the repayment for purpose of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may not include any amount previously approved for installment repayment.


(6) The repayment schedule may be extended beyond 12 quarterly installments if the total repayment amount exceeds 100% of the estimated State share of annual expenditures. In these circumstances, the criteria in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) or (3) of this section, as appropriate, shall be followed for repayment of the amount equal to 100% of the annual State share. The remaining amount of the repayment shall be in quarterly amounts not less than those for the 9th through 12th quarters.


(7) The amount of a retroactive claim to be paid a State will be offset against any amounts to be, or already being, repaid by the State in installments, under the same title of the Social Security Act. Under this provision the State may choose to:


(i) Suspend payments until the retroactive claim due the State has, in fact, been offset; or


(ii) Continue payments until the reduced amount of its debt (remaining after the offset), has been paid in full. This second option would result in a shorter payment period. A retroactive claim for the purpose of this regulation is a claim applicable to any period ending 12 months or more prior to the beginning of the quarter in which the payment is to be made by the Administration.



---

[N] [42 FR 28884, June 6, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 7669, Feb. 22, 1982; 52 FR 273, Jan. 5, 1987; 53 FR 36579, Sept. 21, 1988] 




