# § 351.304   Establishing business proprietary treatment of information.

(a) *Claim for business proprietary treatment.* (1) Any person that submits factual information to the Secretary in connection with a proceeding may:


(i) Request that the Secretary treat any part of the submission as business proprietary information that is subject to disclosure only under an administrative protective order,


(ii) Claim that there is a clear and compelling need to withhold certain business proprietary information from disclosure under an administrative protective order, or


(iii) In an investigation, identify customer names that are exempt from disclosure under administrative protective order under section 777(c)(1)(A) of the Act.


(2) The Secretary will require that all business proprietary information presented to, or obtained or generated by, the Secretary during a segment of a proceeding be disclosed to authorized applicants, except for


(i) Customer names submitted in an investigation,


(ii) Information for which the Secretary finds that there is a clear and compelling need to withhold from disclosure, and


(iii) Privileged or classified information.


(b) *Identification of business proprietary information*—(1) *Information releasable under administrative protective order*—(i) *In general.* A person submitting information must identify the information for which it claims business proprietary treatment by enclosing the information within single brackets. The submitting person must provide with the information an explanation of why each item of bracketed information is entitled to business proprietary treatment. A person submitting a request for business proprietary treatment also must include an agreement to permit disclosure under an administrative protective order, unless the submitting party claims that there is a clear and compelling need to withhold the information from disclosure under an administrative protective order.


(ii) *Electronic databases.* In accordance with § 351.303(c)(3), an electronic database need not contain brackets. The submitter must select the security classification “Business Proprietary Document—May Be Released Under APO” at the time of filing to request business proprietary treatment of the information contained in the database. The public version of the database must be publicly summarized and ranged in accordance with § 351.304(c).


(2) *Information claimed to be exempt from disclosure under administrative protective order.* (i) If the submitting person claims that there is a clear and compelling need to withhold certain information from disclosure under an administrative protective order (see paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section), the submitting person must identify the information by enclosing the information within double brackets, and must include a full explanation of the reasons for the claim.


(ii) In an investigation, the submitting person may enclose business proprietary customer names within double brackets (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section).


(iii) The submitting person may exclude the information in double brackets from the business proprietary/APO version of the submission served on authorized applicants. See § 351.303 for filing and service requirements.


(c) *Public version.* (1) A person filing a submission that contains information for which business proprietary treatment is claimed must also file a public version of the submission. The public version must be filed on the filing deadline for the business proprietary document. If the business proprietary document was filed under the one-day lag rule (*see* § 351.303(c)(2)), the public version and the final business proprietary document must be filed on the first business day after the filing deadline. The public version must contain a summary of the bracketed information in sufficient detail to permit a reasonable understanding of the substance of the information. If the submitting person claims that summarization is not possible, the claim must be accompanied by a full explanation of the reasons supporting that claim. Generally, numerical data will be considered adequately summarized if grouped or presented in terms of indices or figures within 10 percent of the actual figure. If an individual portion of the numerical data is voluminous, at least one percent representative of that portion must be summarized. A submitter should not create a public summary of business proprietary information of another person.


(2) If a submitting party discovers that it has failed to bracket information correctly, the submitter may file a complete, corrected business proprietary document along with the public version (*see* § 351.303(c)(2)(ii) through (iii)). At the close of business on the day on which the public version of a submission is due under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, however, the bracketing of business proprietary information in the original business proprietary document or, if a corrected version is timely filed, the corrected business proprietary document will become final. Once bracketing has become final, the Secretary will not accept any further corrections to the bracketing of information in a submission, and the Secretary will treat non-bracketed information as public information.


(d) *Nonconforming submissions*—(1) *In general.* The Secretary will reject a submission that does not meet the requirements of section 777(b) of the Act and this section with a written explanation. The submitting person may take any of the following actions within two business days after receiving the Secretary's explanation: 


(i) Correct the problems and resubmit the information;


(ii) If the Secretary denied a request for business proprietary treatment, agree to have the information in question treated as public information;


(iii) If the Secretary granted business proprietary treatment but denied a claim that there was a clear and compelling need to withhold information under an administrative protective order, agree to the disclosure of the information in question under an administrative protective order; or


(iv) Submit other material concerning the subject matter of the rejected information. If the submitting person does not take any of these actions, the Secretary will not consider the rejected submission.


(2) *Timing.* The Secretary normally will determine the status of information within 30 days after the day on which the information was submitted. If the business proprietary status of information is in dispute, the Secretary will treat the relevant portion of the submission as business proprietary information until the Secretary decides the matter.



---

[N] [63 FR 24401, May 4, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 39277, July 6, 2011; 88 FR 67079, Sept. 29, 2023]




