# ยง 874.3340   Active implantable bone conduction hearing system.

(a) *Identification.* An active implantable bone conduction hearing system is a prescription device consisting of an implanted transducer, implanted electronics components, and an audio processor. The active implantable bone conduction hearing system is intended to compensate for conductive or mixed hearing losses by conveying amplified acoustic signals to the cochlea via mechanical vibrations on the skull bone.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Clinical performance testing must characterize any adverse events observed during implantation and clinical use, and must also demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use.


(2) Non-clinical performance testing must demonstrate that the device performs as intended under anticipated conditions of use, including the following:


(i) Performance data must validate force output in a clinically relevant model.


(ii) Impact testing in a clinically relevant anatomic model must be performed.


(iii) Mechanical integrity testing must be performed.


(iv) Reliability testing consistent with expected device life must be performed.


(3) The patient-contacting components of the device must be demonstrated to be biocompatible.


(4) Performance data must demonstrate the sterility of the patient-contacting components of the device.


(5) Performance data must support the shelf life of the device by demonstrating continued sterility, package integrity, and device functionality over the identified shelf life.


(6) Performance data must demonstrate the wireless compatibility, electromagnetic compatibility, and electrical safety of the device.


(7) Software verification, validation, and hazard analysis must be performed.


(8) Labeling must include:


(i) A summary of clinical testing conducted with the device that includes a summary of device-related complications and adverse events;


(ii) Instructions for use;


(iii) A surgical guide for implantation, which includes instructions for imaging to assess bone dimensions;


(iv) A shelf life, for device components provided sterile;


(v) A patient identification card; and


(vi) A patient user manual.



---

[N] [83 FR 54009, Oct. 26, 2018]




