# § 866.3183   Quantitative viral nucleic acid test for transplant patient management.

(a) *Identification.* A quantitative viral nucleic acid test for transplant patient management is identified as a device intended for prescription use in the detection of viral pathogens by measurement of viral DNA or RNA using specified specimen processing, amplification, and detection instrumentation. The test is intended for use as an aid in the management of transplant patients with active viral infection or at risk for developing viral infections. The test results are intended to be interpreted by qualified healthcare professionals in conjunction with other relevant clinical and laboratory findings.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) The labeling required under § 809.10(b) of this chapter must include:


(i) A prominent statement that the device is not intended for use as a donor screening test for the presence of viral nucleic acid in blood or blood products.


(ii) Limitations which must be updated to reflect current clinical practice. These limitations must include, but are not limited to, statements that indicate:


(A) Test results are to be interpreted by qualified licensed healthcare professionals in conjunction with clinical signs and symptoms and other relevant laboratory results; and


(B) Negative test results do not preclude viral infection or tissue invasive viral disease and that test results must not be the sole basis for patient management decisions.


(iii) A detailed explanation of the interpretation of results and acceptance criteria must be provided and include specific warnings regarding the potential for variability in viral load measurement when samples are measured by different devices. Warnings must include the following statement, where applicable: “Due to the potential for variability in [analyte] measurements across different [analyte] assays, it is recommended that the same device be used for the quantitation of [analyte] when managing individual patients.”


(iv) A detailed explanation of the principles of operation and procedures for assay performance.


(2) Design verification and validation must include the following:


(i) Detailed documentation of the device description, including all parts that make up the device, ancillary reagents required for use with the assay but not provided, an explanation of the methodology, design of the primer/probe sequences, rationale for the selected gene target, and specifications for amplicon size, guanine-cytosine content, and degree of nucleic acid sequence conservation. The design and nature of all primary, secondary and tertiary quantitation standards used for calibration must also be described.


(ii) A detailed description of the impact of any software, including software applications and hardware-based devices that incorporate software, on the device's functions;


(iii) Documentation and characterization (*e.g.,* determination of the identity, supplier, purity, and stability) of all critical reagents and protocols for maintaining product integrity throughout its labeled shelf-life.


(iv) Stability data for reagents provided with the device and indicated specimen types, in addition to the basis for the stability acceptance criteria at all time points chosen across the spectrum of the device's indicated life cycle, which must include a time point at the end of shelf life.


(v) All stability protocols, including acceptance criteria.


(vi) Final lot release criteria along with documentation of an appropriate justification that lots released at the extremes of the specifications will meet the claimed analytical and clinical performance characteristics as well as the stability claims.


(vii) Risk analysis and documentation demonstrating how risk control measures are implemented to address device system hazards, such as Failure Mode Effects Analysis and/or Hazard Analysis. This documentation must include a detailed description of a protocol (including all procedures and methods) for the continuous monitoring, identification, and handling of genetic mutations and/or novel viral stains (*e.g.,* regular review of published literature and annual in silico analysis of target sequences to detect possible primer or probe mismatches). All results of this protocol, including any findings, must be documented.


(viii) Analytical performance testing that includes:


(A) Detailed documentation of the following analytical performance studies: limit of detection, upper and lower limits of quantitation, inclusivity, precision, reproducibility, interference, cross reactivity, carry-over, quality control, specimen stability studies, and additional studies as applicable to specimen type and intended use for the device;


(B) Identification of the viral strains selected for use in analytical studies, which must be representative of clinically relevant circulating strains;


(C) Inclusivity study results obtained with a variety of viral genotypes as applicable to the specific assay target and supplemented by in silico analysis;


(D) Reproducibility studies that include the testing of three independent production lots;


(E) Documentation of calibration to a reference standard that FDA has determined is appropriate for the quantification of viral DNA or RNA (*e.g.,* a recognized consensus standard); and


(F) Documentation of traceability performed each time a new lot of the standardized reference material to which the device is traceable is released, or when the field transitions to a new standardized reference material.


(ix) Clinical performance testing that includes:


(A) Detailed documentation from either a method comparison study with a comparator that FDA has determined is appropriate, or results from a prospective clinical study demonstrating clinical validity of the device;


(B) Data from patient samples, with an acceptable number of the virus-positive samples containing an analyte concentration near the lower limit of quantitation and any clinically relevant decision points. If an acceptable number of virus-positive samples containing an analyte concentration near the lower limit of quantitation and any clinically relevant decision cannot be obtained, contrived samples may be used to supplement sample numbers when appropriate, as determined by FDA;


(C) The method comparison study must include predefined maximum acceptable differences between the test and comparator method across all primary outcome measures in the clinical study protocol; and


(D) The final release test results for each lot used in the clinical study.



---

[N] [89 FR 75954, Sept. 17, 2024]




