# § 123.22   Filing, retention, and return of export licenses and filing of export information.

(a) Any export, as defined in this subchapter, of a defense article controlled by this subchapter, to include defense articles transiting the United States, requires the electronic reporting of export information. The reporting of the export information shall be to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection using its electronic system(s), or directly to the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), as appropriate. Before the export of any hardware, via a license or other authorization, the DDTC registered applicant/exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically submit export information to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, unless electronic reporting is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions (*see* paragraph (b) of this section). In addition to electronically providing the export information to U.S. Customs and Border Protection before export, all mandatory supporting documentation (e.g., attachments, certifications, proof of filing in U.S. Customs and Border Protection's system(s) such as the Internal Transaction Number (ITN)) must be submitted electronically, unless electronic reporting of such information is unavailable, in which case U.S. Customs and Border Protection will issue instructions.


(1) If necessary, an export may be made through a port other than the one designated on the license if the exporter complies with the procedures established by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.


(2) When a defense article is temporarily exported from the United States and subsequently moved from one destination authorized on a license to another destination authorized on the same or another temporary license, the applicant, or an agent acting on the applicant's behalf, must ensure that U.S. Customs and Border Protection decrements both temporary licenses to show the exit and entry of the hardware.


(b) *Filing and reporting of export information*—(1) *Filing of export information with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection.* Before exporting any hardware controlled by this subchapter using a license or exemption, the DDTC registered applicant/exporter, or an agent acting on the filer's behalf, must electronically file the export information with U.S. Customs and Border Protection in accordance with the following timelines:


(i) *Air or truck shipments.* The export information must be electronically filed at least 8 hours prior to departure. 


(ii) *Sea or rail Shipments.* The export information must be electronically filed at least 24 hours prior to departure. 


(2) *Emergency shipments of hardware that cannot meet the pre-departure filing requirements.* U.S. Customs and Border Protection may permit an emergency export of hardware by truck or air by a U.S. registered person when the exporter is unable to comply with the Electronic Export Information (EEI) filing timeline in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. The applicant, or an agent acting on the applicant's behalf, must provide documentation required by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and this subchapter. The documentation provided to U.S. Customs and Border Protection must include the Internal Transaction Number (ITN) for the shipment and must be accompanied by an explanation for urgency. The export filing via U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s) must be made at least two hours prior to any departure by air from the United States. When shipping via ground, the filing in U.S. Customs and Border Protection's electronic system(s) must be made when the exporter provides the articles to the carrier or at least one hour prior to departure from the United States, when the permanent export of the hardware has been authorized for export:


(i) In accordance with § 126.4 of this subchapter, or 


(ii) On a valid license, and the ultimate recipient and ultimate end-user identified on the license is a foreign government. 


(3) *Reporting of export information on technical data and defense service.* When an export is being made using a DDTC authorization (e.g., technical data license, agreement or a technical data exemption provided in this subchapter), the DDTC registered exporter will retain the license or other approval and provide the export information electronically to DDTC as follows: 


(i) *Technical data license.* Prior to the permanent export of technical data licensed using a Form DSP-5, the applicant shall electronically provide export information using the system for direct electronic reporting to DDTC of export information and self-validate the original of the license. Exports of copies of the licensed technical data should be made in accordance with existing exemptions in this subchapter. Should an exemption not apply, the applicant may request a new license.


(ii) *Manufacturing license and technical assistance agreements.* Prior to the initial export of any technical data and defense services authorized in an agreement the U.S. agreement holder must electronically inform DDTC that exports have begun. In accordance with this subchapter, all subsequent exports of technical data and services are not required to be filed electronically with DDTC except when the export is done using a U.S. Port. Records of all subsequent exports of technical data shall be maintained by the exporter in accordance with this subchapter and shall be made immediately available to DDTC upon request. Exports of technical data in furtherance of an agreement using a U.S. Port shall be made in accordance with § 125.4 of this subchapter and made in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. 


(iii) *Technical data and defense service exemptions.* In any instance when technical data is exported using an exemption in this subchapter (e.g., §§ 125.4(b)(2), 125.4(b)(4), 126.5) from a U.S. port, the exporter must provide the export data electronically to DDTC. A copy of the electronic notification to DDTC must accompany the technical data shipment and be made available to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection upon request.


(c) *Return of licenses.* Licenses issued by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls are subject to return requirements as follows:


(1) A license issued electronically by DDTC and electronically decremented by U.S. Customs and Border Protection through its electronic system(s) is not required to be returned to DDTC. A copy of the license must be maintained by the applicant in accordance with § 122.5 of this subchapter.


(2) Licenses issued by DDTC but not decremented by U.S. Customs and Border Protection through its electronic system(s) (e.g., oral or visual technical data releases) must be maintained by the applicant in accordance with § 122.5 of this subchapter.


(3) A license issued by DDTC but not used by the applicant does not need to be returned to DDTC, even when expired.


(4) A license revoked by DDTC is considered expired and must be handled in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [68 FR 61101, Oct. 27, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 50962, Aug. 29, 2005; 76 FR 68312, Nov. 4, 2011; 77 FR 16599, Mar. 21, 2012; 82 FR 18, Jan. 3, 2017; 83 FR 50007, Oct. 4, 2018]




