# § 420.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Aggregating entity* means a single entity (*e.g.,* a parent company, affiliate, or organizational component) that is combined with other entities, as specified in the definition of “reporting entity” of this section, to form a reporting entity. In those cases where an entity has no affiliates, the aggregating entity is the same as the reporting entity.


*Control* means having the authority to exercise investment discretion over the purchase, sale, retention, or financing of specific Treasury securities.


*Large position threshold* means the minimum dollar par amount of the specified Treasury security that a reporting entity must control in order for the entity to be required to submit a large position report. It also means the minimum number of futures, options on futures, and exchange-traded options contracts for which the specified Treasury security is deliverable that the reporting entity must control in order for the entity to be required to submit a large position report. Treasury will announce the large position thresholds, which may vary with each notice of request to report large position information and with each specified Treasury security. Treasury may announce different thresholds for certain reporting criteria. Under no circumstances will a large position threshold be less than 10 percent of the amount outstanding of the specified Treasury security.


*Recently-issued* means:


(1) With respect to Treasury securities that are issued quarterly or more frequently, the three most recent issues of the security.


(2) With respect to Treasury securities that are issued less frequently than quarterly, the two most recent issues of the security.


(3) With respect to a reopened security, the entire issue of a reopened security (older and newer portions) based on the date the new portion of the reopened security is issued by Treasury (or for when-issued securities, the scheduled issue date).


(4) For all Treasury securities, a security announced to be issued or auctioned but unissued (when-issued), starting from the date of the issuance announcement. The most recent issue of the security is the one most recently announced.


(5) Treasury security issues other than those specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, provided that such large position information is necessary and appropriate for monitoring the impact of concentrations of positions in Treasury securities.


*Reporting entity* means any corporation, partnership, person, or other entity and its affiliates, as further provided herein. For the purposes of this definition, an affiliate is any: Entity that is more than 50% owned, directly or indirectly, by the aggregating entity or by any other affiliate of the aggregating entity; person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the aggregating entity; person or entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of any other affiliate of the aggregating entity; or entity, a majority of whose board of directors or a majority of whose general partners are directors or officers of the aggregating entity or any affiliate of the aggregating entity.


(1) Subject to the conditions prescribed in appendix A to this part, one aggregating entity, or a combination of aggregating entities, may be recognized as a separate reporting entity.


(2) Notwithstanding this definition, any persons or entities that intentionally act together with respect to the investing in, retention of, or financing of Treasury securities are considered, collectively, to be one reporting entity.


*Reporting requirement* means that an entity must file a large position report when it meets any one of eight criteria contained in appendix B to this part.




