# § 721.3625   Fatty acid amine salt (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as fatty acid amine salt (PMN P-88-1889) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (c), (f), and (g)(3)(ii). The provisions of § 721.72(g) would require the following warning language on the label: Minimize releases to the environment.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 33305, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




