# ยง 1221.108   Establishment of the NASA Unified Visual Communications System.

(a) The NASA Administrator directed the establishment of a NASA Unified Visual Communications System. The system, which is comprised of the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and any accompanying style guides or related NASA directive or specification, was developed under the Federal Design Improvement Program initiated by the President in May 1972. This system is the Agency-wide program by which NASA projects a contemporary, business-like, progressive, and forward-looking image through the use of effective design for improved communications. The system provides a professional and cohesive NASA identity by imparting continuity of graphics design in all layout, reproduction art, stationery, forms, publications, signs, films, video productions, vehicles, aircraft, and spacecraft markings and other items. It creates a unified image which is representative and symbolic of NASA's progressive attitudes and programs.


(b) The Associate Administrator for Communications is responsible for the development and implementation of the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and any accompanying style guides for the Agency or related NASA directive or specification.


(c) The Associate Administrator for Communications has designated staff to implement and monitor Agency-wide design improvements in consonance with the NASA Graphics Standards Manual. Designated staff will develop and issue changes and additions to the Manual as required and as new design standards and specifications are developed and approved. The NASA Graphics Standards Manual can be downloaded at *https://communications.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/files/NASA_Graphics_Standards_v3-TAGGED-v3.pdf*.


(d) NASA Centers and Headquarters have designated staff to implement NASA's graphics standards and ensure compliance of the NASA Graphics Standards Manual and any accompanying Style Guides or related NASA directive or specification.



---

[N] [85 FR 71830, Nov. 12, 2020]




