# ยง 1572.201   Transportation of hazardous materials via commercial motor vehicle from Canada or Mexico to and within the United States.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to commercial motor vehicle drivers licensed by Canada and Mexico.


(b) *Terms used in this section.* The terms used in 49 CFR parts 1500, 1570, and 1572 also apply in this subpart. In addition, the following terms are used in this subpart for purposes of this section:


*FAST* means Free and Secure Trade program of the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), a cooperative effort between CBP and the governments of Canada and Mexico to coordinate processes for the clearance of commercial shipments at the border.


*Hazardous materials* means material that has been designated as hazardous under 49 U.S.C. 5103 and is required to be placarded under subpart F of 49 CFR part 172 or any quantity of material that listed as a select agent or toxin in 42 CFR part 73.


(c) *Background check required.* A commercial motor vehicle driver who is licensed by Canada or Mexico may not transport hazardous materials into or within the United States unless the driver has undergone a background check similar to the one required of U.S.-licensed operators with a hazardous materials endorsement (HME) on a commercial driver's license, as prescribed in 49 CFR 1572.5.


(d) *FAST card.* A commercial motor vehicle driver who holds a current Free and Secure Trade (FAST) program card satisfies the requirements of this section. Commercial motor vehicle drivers who wish to apply for a FAST program card must contact the FAST Commercial Driver Program, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Department of Homeland Security.


(e) *TWIC.* A commercial motor vehicle driver who holds a TWIC satisfies the requirements of this section. Commercial vehicle drivers who wish to apply for a TWIC must comply with the rules in 49 CFR part 1572. 




