# ยง 79.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act:


(a) *Act* means the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 1857 *et seq.,* as amended by Pub. L. 91-604).


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.


(c) *Fuel* means any material which is capable of releasing energy or power by combustion or other chemical or physical reaction.


(d) *Fuel manufacturer* means any person who, for sale or introduction into commerce, produces, manufactures, or imports a fuel or causes or directs the alteration of the chemical composition of a bulk fuel, or the mixture of chemical compounds in a bulk fuel, by adding to it an additive, except:


(1) A party (other than a fuel refiner or importer) who adds a quantity of additive(s) amounting to less than 1.0 percent by volume of the resultant additive(s)/fuel mixture is not thereby considered a fuel manufacturer.


(2) A party (other than a fuel refiner or importer) who adds an oxygenate compound to fuel in any otherwise allowable amount is not thereby considered a fuel manufacturer.


(e) *Additive* means any substance, other than one composed solely of carbon and/or hydrogen, that is intentionally added to a fuel named in the designation (including any added to a motor vehicle's fuel system) and that is not intentionally removed prior to sale or use.


(f) *Additive manufacturer* means any person who produces, manufactures, or imports an additive for use as an additive and/or sells or imports for sale such additive under the person's own name.


(g) *Range of concentration* means the highest concentration, the lowest concentration, and the average concentration of an additive in a fuel.


(h) *Chemical composition* means the name and percentage by weight of each compound in an additive and the name and percentage by weight of each element in an additive.


(i) *Chemical structure* means the molecular structure of a compound in an additive.


(j) *Impurity* means any chemical element present in an additive that is not included in the chemical formula or identified in the breakdown by element in the chemical composition of such additive.


(k) *Oxygenate compound* means an oxygen-containing, ashless organic compound, such as an alcohol or ether, which may be used as a fuel or fuel additive.



---

[N] [40 FR 52011, Nov. 7, 1975, as amended at 59 FR 33092, June 27, 1994; 62 FR 12571, Mar. 17, 1997]






