# ยง 113.35-3   General requirements.

(a) Each self-propelled vessel, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, must have an electric or mechanical engine order telegraph system from the navigating bridge to the engineroom.


(b) On a vessel with more than one propulsion engine, each engine must have this system.


(c) On a double-ended vessel that has two navigating bridges, this system must be between the engineroom and each navigating bridge.


(d) If a small vessel has no engine order telegraph system between the navigating bridge and the engineroom, the propulsion plant must be controlled entirely from the navigating bridge, with no means of normal engine control from the engineroom.


(e) On vessels equipped with pilothouse control, each local control station in the engineroom must have an indicator if:


(1) Manual operation from the local control station is an alternative means of control; and


(2) The local control station is not immediately adjacent to the engineroom control station; and


(3) Reliable voice communication and calling that meets the requirements of ยง 113.30-5(h) is not provided.


(f) Engine order telegraph and remote propulsion control systems must be electrically separate and independent, except that a single mechanical operator control device with separate transmitters and connections for each system may be used.



---

[N] [CGD 74-125A, 47 FR 15272, Apr. 8, 1982, as amended by CGD 81-030, 53 FR 17847, May 18, 1988; CGD 94-108, 61 FR 28290, June 4, 1996]




