# § 429.2   Definitions.

(a) The definitions found in 10 CFR parts 430 and 431 apply for purposes of this part.


(b) The following definitions apply for the purposes of this part. Any words or terms defined in this section or elsewhere in this part shall be defined as provided in sections 321 and 340 of the Energy Policy Conservation Act, as amended, hereinafter referred to as “the Act.”


*Energy conservation standard* means any standards meeting the definitions of that term in 42 U.S.C. 6291(6) and 42 U.S.C. 6311(18) as well as any other water conservation standards and design requirements found in this part or parts 430 or 431.


*Engineered-to-order* means a basic model of commercial water heating equipment, commercial packaged boiler, commercial heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, or commercial refrigeration equipment that is: Not listed in any catalogs or marketing literature and designed and built to specific customer requirements. A unit of an engineered-to-order basic model is not offered as a set of options (e.g., configure-to-order, menu-system).


*Independent* means, in the context of a nationally recognized certification program, or accreditation program for electric motors, an entity that is not controlled by, or under common control with, electric motor manufacturers, importers, private labelers, or vendors, and that has no affiliation, financial ties, or contractual agreements, apparently or otherwise, with such entities that would:


(i) Hinder the ability of the program to evaluate fully or report the measured or calculated energy efficiency of any electric motor, or


(ii) Create any potential or actual conflict of interest that would undermine the validity of said evaluation. For purposes of this definition, financial ties or contractual agreements between an electric motor manufacturer, importer, private labeler or vendor and a nationally recognized certification program, or accreditation program exclusively for certification or accreditation services does not negate an otherwise independent relationship.


*Manufacturer's model number* means the identifier used by a manufacturer to uniquely identify the group of identical or essentially identical covered products or covered equipment to which a particular unit belongs. The manufacturer's model number typically appears on the product nameplates, in product catalogs and in other product advertising literature.



---

[N] [76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 25499, May 5, 2014; 81 FR 4144, Jan. 25, 2016; 82 FR 1099, Jan. 4, 2017; 87 FR 63646, Oct. 19, 2022]




