# ยง 157.21   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart shall have the following meanings:


*Appropriate,* when used with respect to child-resistant packaging, means that the packaging is chemically compatible with the pesticide contained therein.


*Child-resistant packaging* means packaging that is designed and constructed to be significantly difficult for children under 5 years of age to open or obtain a toxic or harmful amount of the substance contained therein within a reasonable time, and that is not difficult for normal adults to use properly.


*Package* or *packaging* means the immediate container or wrapping, including any attached closure(s), in which the pesticide is contained for distribution, sale, consumption, use or storage. The term does not include any shipping or bulk container used for transporting or delivering the pesticide unless it is the only such package.


*Practicable,* when used with respect to child-resistant packaging, means that the packaging can be mass produced and can be used in assembly line production.


*Residential use* means use of a pesticide or device:


(1) Directly on humans or pets;


(2) In, on, or around any structure, vehicle, article, surface or area associated with the household, including but not limited to areas such as non-agricultural outbuildings, non-commercial greenhouses, pleasure boats and recreational vehicles; or


(3) In or around any preschool or day care facility.


*Technically feasible,* when applied to child-resistant packaging, means that the technology exists to produce the child-resistant packaging for a particular pesticide.


*Unit packaging* means a package that is labeled with directions to use the entire contents of the package in a single application.



---

[N] [51 FR 21286, June 11, 1986, as amended at 73 FR 75596, Dec. 12, 2008]




