# ยง 2200.70   Exhibits.

(a) *Marking exhibits.* All exhibits offered in evidence by a party shall be marked for identification before or during the hearing. Exhibits shall be marked with the case docket number, with a designation identifying the party or intervenor offering the exhibit, and numbered consecutively.


(b) *Removal or substitution of exhibits in evidence.* Unless the Judge finds it impractical, a copy of each exhibit shall be given to the other parties and intervenors. A party may remove an exhibit from the official record during the hearing or at the conclusion of the hearing only upon permission of the Judge. The Judge, in the Judge's discretion, may permit the substitution of a duplicate for any original document offered into evidence.


(c) *Reasons for denial of admitting exhibit.* A Judge may, in the Judge's discretion, deny the admission of any exhibit because of its excessive size, weight, or other characteristic that prohibits its convenient transportation and storage. A party may offer into evidence photographs, models, or other representations of any such exhibit.


(d) *Rejected exhibits.* All exhibits offered but denied admission into evidence, except exhibits referred to in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be placed in a separate file designated for rejected exhibits.


(e) *Return of physical exhibits.* A party may on motion request the return of a physical exhibit within 30 days after expiration of the time for filing a petition for review of a Commission final order in a United States Court of Appeals under section 11 of the Act, 29 U.S.C. 660, or within 30 days after completion of any proceedings initiated in a Court of Appeals. The motion shall be addressed to the Executive Secretary and provide supporting reasons. The exhibit shall be returned if the Executive Secretary determines that it is no longer necessary for use in any Commission proceeding.


(f) *Request for custody of physical exhibit.* Any person may on motion to the Executive Secretary request custody of a physical exhibit for use in any court or tribunal. The motion shall state the reasons for the request and the duration of custody requested. If the exhibit has been admitted in a pending Commission case, the motion shall be served on all parties to the proceeding. Any person granted custody of an exhibit shall inform the Executive Secretary of the status every 6 months (*e.g.,* 6 months after January 15 would be July 15) of the person's continuing need for the exhibit and return the exhibit after completion of the proceeding.


(g) *Disposal of physical exhibit.* Any physical exhibit may be disposed of by the Commission's Executive Secretary subject to the requirements of the National Archives and Records Administration.



---

[N] [84 FR 14558, Apr. 10, 2019, as amended at 87 FR 8949, Feb. 17, 2022]




