# ยง 1109.11   Component part testing for paint.

(a) *Generally.* The Commission will permit certification of a consumer product, or a component part of a consumer product, as being in compliance with the lead paint limit of part 1303 of this chapter or the content limits for paint on toys of section 4.3 of ASTM F 963-11 or any successor standard of section 4.3 of ASTM F 963-11 accepted by the Commission if, for each paint used on the product, the requirements in ยง 1109.5 and paragraph (b) of this section are met.


(b) *Requirement.* For each paint used on the product:


(1) Unless using the test method ASTM F 2853-10 to test for lead in paint, all testing must be performed on dry paint that is scraped off of a substrate for testing. The substrate used need not be of the same material as the material used in the finished product or have the same shape or other characteristics as the part of the finished product to which the paint will be applied; and


(2) The tested paint is identical in all material respects to that used in production of the consumer product. The paint samples to be tested must have the same composition as the paint used on the finished product. However, a larger quantity of the paint may be tested than is used on the consumer product in order to generate a sufficient sample size. The paint may be supplied to the testing laboratory for testing either in liquid form or in the form of a dried film of the paint on any suitable substrate.



---

[N] [76 FR 69580, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 61732, Oct. 14, 2015]




