# ยง 6102.4.1   Termination and Suspension of Restoration and Mitigation Leases.

(a) If a restoration or mitigation lease provides by its terms that it shall terminate on the occurrence of a fixed or agreed-upon event, the restoration or mitigation lease shall automatically terminate by operation of law upon the occurrence of such event.


(b) A restoration or mitigation lease may be terminated by mutual written agreement between the authorized officer and the lease holder.


(c) Authorized officers have discretion to suspend or terminate restoration or mitigation leases under the following circumstances:


(1) Improper issuance of the lease;


(2) Noncompliance by the holder with applicable law, regulations, or terms and conditions of the lease;


(3) Failure of the holder to use the lease for the purpose for which it was authorized; or


(4) Impossibility of fulfilling the purposes of the lease.


(d) Upon determination that the holder has failed to comply with any terms or conditions of a lease and that such noncompliance adversely affects or poses a threat to land or public health or safety, or impacts ecosystem resilience, the authorized officer shall issue an immediate temporary suspension.


(1) The authorized officer may issue an immediate temporary suspension order orally or in writing at the site of the activity to the holder or a contractor or subcontractor of the holder, or to any representative, agent, employee, or contractor of any such holder, contractor, or subcontractor, and the suspended activity shall cease at that time. As soon as practicable, the authorized officer shall confirm the order by a written notice to the holder addressed to the holder or the holder's designated agent. The authorized officer may also take such action that the authorized officer considers necessary to address the adverse effects or threat to land or public health or safety or impacts to ecosystem resilience.


(2) The authorized officer may order immediate temporary suspension of an activity independent of any action that has been or is being taken by another Federal or State agency.


(3) Any time after an order of temporary suspension has been issued, the holder may file with the authorized officer a request for permission to resume activities authorized by the lease. The request shall be in writing and shall contain a statement of the facts supporting the request. The authorized officer may grant the request upon determination that the adverse effects or threat to land or public health or safety or impacts to ecosystem resilience are resolved.


(4) The authorized officer may render an order to either grant or deny the request to resume within 30 working days of the date the request is filed. If the authorized officer does not render an order on the request within 30 working days, the request shall be considered denied, and the holder shall have the same right to appeal as if an order denying the request had been issued.


(e) Process for termination or suspension other than temporary immediate suspension.


(1) Prior to commencing any proceeding to suspend or terminate a lease, the authorized officer shall give written notice to the holder of the legal grounds for such action and shall give the holder a reasonable time to address the legal basis the authorized officer identifies for suspension or termination.


(2) After due notice of termination or suspension to the holder of a restoration or mitigation lease, if grounds for suspension or termination still exist after a reasonable time, the authorized officer shall give written notice to the holder and refer the matter to the Office of Hearings and Appeals for a hearing before an administrative law judge pursuant to 43 CFR part 4. The authorized officer shall suspend or revoke the restoration or mitigation lease if the administrative law judge determines that grounds for suspension or revocation exist and that such action is justified.


(3) Authorized officers shall terminate a suspension order when they determine that the grounds for such suspension no longer exist.


(4) Upon termination of a restoration or mitigation lease, the holder shall, for 60 days after the notice of termination, retain authorization to use the associated public lands solely for the purposes of reclaiming the site to its pre-use conditions consistent with achieving land health fundamentals, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing or in the lease terms. If the holder fails to reclaim the site consistent with the requirements of the lease terms within a reasonable period, all authorization to use the associated public lands will terminate, but that shall not relieve the holder of liability for the cost of reclaiming the site.






