# § 3175.31   Specific performance requirements.

(a) *Flow rate measurement uncertainty levels.* (1) For high-volume FMPs, the measuring equipment must achieve an overall flow rate measurement uncertainty within ±3 percent.


(2) For very-high-volume FMPs, the measuring equipment must achieve an overall flow rate measurement uncertainty within ±2 percent.


(3) The determination of uncertainty is based on the values of flowing parameters (*e.g.,* differential pressure, static pressure, and flowing temperature for differential meters or velocity, mass flow rate, or volumetric flow rate for linear meters) determined as follows, listed in order of priority:


(i) The average flowing parameters listed on the most recent daily QTR, if available to the BLM at the time of uncertainty determination; or


(ii) The average flowing parameters from the previous day, as required under § 3175.101(b)(4)(i) through (iii) (for differential meters).


(4) The uncertainty must be calculated under API 14.3.1, Section 12 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30) or other methods approved by the AO.


(b) *Heating value uncertainty levels.* (1) For high-volume FMPs, the measuring equipment must achieve an annual average heating value uncertainty within ±2 percent.


(2) For very-high-volume FMPs, the measuring equipment must achieve an annual average heating value uncertainty within ±1 percent.


(3) Unless otherwise approved by the AO, the average annual heating value uncertainty must be determined as follows:


(c) *Bias.* For low-volume, high-volume, and very-high-volume FMPs, the measuring equipment used for either flow rate or heating value determination must achieve measurement without statistically significant bias.


(d) *Verifiability.* An operator may not use measurement equipment for which the accuracy and validity of any input, factor, or equation used by the measuring equipment to determine quantity, rate, or heating value are not independently verifiable by the BLM. Verifiability includes the ability to independently recalculate the volume, rate, and heating value based on source records and field observations.




