# ยง 380.60   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart D, the following terms are defined as follows:


*Appointment date.* The term *appointment date* means the date of the appointment of the Corporation as receiver for a covered financial company that is a covered broker or dealer. This date shall constitute the *filing date* as that term is used in SIPA.


*Bridge broker or dealer.* The term *bridge broker or dealer* means a new financial company organized by the Corporation in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) for the purpose of resolving a covered broker or dealer.


*Commission.* The term *Commission* means the Securities and Exchange Commission.


*Covered broker or dealer.* The term *covered broker or dealer* means a covered financial company that is a qualified broker or dealer.


*Customer.* The term *customer* of a covered broker or dealer shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(2) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer.


*Customer name securities.* The term *customer name securities* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(3) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to *filing date* shall mean the appointment date.


*Customer property.* The term *customer property* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(4) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer.


*Net equity.* The term *net equity* shall have the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 78*lll*(11) *provided that* the references therein to *debtor* shall mean the covered broker or dealer and the references therein to *filing date* shall mean the appointment date.


*Qualified broker or dealer.* The term *qualified broker or dealer* means a broker or dealer that:


(1) Is registered with the Commission under section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)); and


(2) Is a member of SIPC.


*SIPA.* The term *SIPA* means the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, 15 U.S.C. 78aaa-*lll.*

*SIPC.* The term *SIPC* means the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.




