# § 42.702   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the term:


*Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6101-6107.


*Action* means any act, activity, policy, rule, standard, or method of administration; or the use of any policy, rule, standard, or method of administration.


*Age distinction* means any action using age or an age-related term.


*Age-related term* means a term that necessarily implies a particular age or range of ages (e.g., “youth,” “juvenile,” “adult,” “older persons,” but not “student”).


*Department* means the Department of Justice.


*Federal financial assistance* means any grant, entitlement, loan, cooperative agreement, contract (other than a procurement contract or a contract of insurance or guaranty), or any other arrangement by which the Department provides assistance in the form of:


(1) Funds;


(2) Services of federal personnel; or


(3) Real or personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including—


(i) Transfers or leases of property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and


(ii) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of property if the federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the federal government.


*FMCS* means the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.


*OJP* means the Office of Justice Programs. OJP coordinates the work of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, the National Institute of Justice, the Bureau of Justice Statistics, and the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention; OJP includes the Office for Victims of Crime.


*Program or activity* means all of the operations of any entity described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance:


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or of a local government; or


(ii) The entity of such State or local government that distributes such assistance and each such department or agency (and each other State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other postsecondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801), system of vocational education, or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to such corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity which is established by two or more of the entities described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.


*Recipient* means any state or political subdivision, any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision, any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity, or any person to which federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another recipient. “Recipient” includes any successor, assignee, or transferee, but does not include the ultimate beneficiary of the assistance.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services or his or her designee.


*United States* means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, Wake Island, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Marinas, and the territories and possessions of the United States.



---

[N] [Order No. 1843-94, 59 FR 6560, Feb. 11, 1994, as amended by Order No. 2679-2003, 68 FR 51366, Aug. 26, 2003]




