# ยง 600.420   Enhanced availability of standard health plans.

(a) *Choice of standard health plans offerors.* (1) The State must assure that standard health plans from at least two offerors are available to enrollees under BHP. This assurance shall be reflected in the BHP Blueprint, which if applicable, shall also include a description of how it will further ensure enrollee choice of standard health plans.


(2) If a State is not able to assure choice of standard health plan offerors, the State may request an exception to the requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, which must include a justification as to why it cannot assure choice of standard health plan offeror as well as demonstrate that the State has reviewed its competitive contracting process to determine the following:


(i) Whether all contract requirements and qualifications are required under the federal framework for BHP;


(ii) Whether additional negotiating flexibility would be consistent with the minimum statutory requirements and available BHP funding: and


(iii) Whether potential bidders have received sufficient information to encourage participation in the BHP competitive contracting process.


(b) *Use of regional compacts.* (1) A State may enter into a joint procurement with other States to negotiate and contract with standard health plan offerors to administer and provide standard health plans statewide, or in geographically specific areas within the States, to BHP enrollees residing in the participating regional compact States.


(2) A State electing the option described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that also contracts for the provision of a geographically specific standard health plan must assure that enrollees, regardless of residency within the State, continue to have choice of at least two standard health plans.


(3) A State electing the option described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include in its BHP Blueprint all of the following:


(i) The other State(s) entering into the regional compact.


(ii) The specific areas within the participating States that the standard health plans will operate, if applicable.


(A) If the State contracts for the provision of a geographically specific standard health plan, the State must describe in its BHP Blueprint how it will assure that enrollees, regardless of location within the State, continue to have choice of at least two standard health plan offerors.


(B) [Reserved]


(iii) An assurance that the competitive contracting process used in the joint procurement of the standard health plans complies with the requirements set forth in ยง 600.410.


(iv) Any variations that may occur as a result of regional differences between the participating states with respect to benefit packages, premiums and cost sharing, contracting requirements and other applicable elements as determined by HHS.




