# ยง 35.6650   Progress reports.

(a) *Reporting frequency.* The recipient must submit progress reports as specified in the Cooperative Agreement. Progress reports will be required no more frequently than quarterly, and will be required at least annually. Notwithstanding the requirements of 2 CFR 200.328 and 200.329, the reports shall be due within 60 days after the reporting period.

(b) *Content.* The progress report must contain the following information:


(1) An explanation of work accomplished during the reporting period, delays, or other problems, if any, and a description of the corrective measures that are planned. For pre-remedial Cooperative Agreements, the report must include a list of the site-specific products completed and the estimated number of technical hours spent to complete each product.


(2) A comparison of the percentage of the project completed to the project schedule, and an explanation of significant discrepancies.


(3) A comparison of the estimated funds spent to date to planned expenditures and an explanation of significant discrepancies. For remedial, enforcement, and removal reports, the comparison must be on a per task basis.


(4) An estimate of the time and funds needed to complete the work required in the Cooperative Agreement, a comparison of that estimate to the time and funds remaining, and a justification for any increase.



---

[N] [72 FR 24504, May 2, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 49417, Aug. 13, 2010; 79 FR 76061, Dec. 19, 2014; 87 FR 30401, May 19, 2022]




