# § 155.172   Canned dry peas.

(a) *Identity.* Canned dry peas conforms to the definition and standard of identity, and is subject to the requirements for label declaration of ingredients, prescribed for canned peas by § 155.170(a), except that:


(1) The optional pea ingredient is the dry seeds of the pea plant of the species *Pisum sativum* L. but excluding the subspecies *macrocarpum.*

(2) The optional ingredients specified in § 155.170(a)(2)(xii) shall not be used.


(3) The name of the food is “cooked dry peas” or “soaked dry peas”. The optional terms specified by § 155.170(a)(3), “early”, “June”, “sweet”, “green”, “wrinkled”, or any combination thereof, shall not be used on the labels.


(b) *Quality.* (1) The standard of quality for canned dry peas is that specified for canned peas by § 155.170(b) except that:


(i) The alcohol-insoluble solids maximums specified in § 155.170(b)(1)(vi) do not apply.


(ii) The skins of not more than 25 percent by count of the peas in the container are ruptured to a width of 1.6 millimeters (0.06 inch) or more.


(2) If the quality of canned dry peas falls below the standard of quality prescribed by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the statement of substandard quality in the manner and form specified in § 155.170(b)(3) for canned peas, except that the words “Excessively mealy” shall not be used.


(c) *Fill of container.* (1) The standard of fill of container for canned dry peas is that prescribed for canned peas by § 155.170(c).


(2) If canned dry peas fall below the standard of fill of container prescribed by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the label shall bear the general statement of substandard fill specified in § 130.14(b) of this chapter, in the manner and form therein specified.



---

[N] [45 FR 43399, June 27, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 15241, Apr. 8, 1983; 58 FR 2883, Jan. 6, 1993]




