# § 460.10   Eligibility.

(a) For the 2022 crop year, to be eligible for premium support under PCCP, the participant must be a person who is eligible to receive Federal benefits and who has purchased a crop insurance policy for a first insured crop from an AIP for insured acres on which the participant planted a qualifying cover crop after June 15, 2021, during the 2021 crop year, or during the 2022 crop year.


(1) Cover crops must be specifically reported to FSA via the Form-578 with the corresponding crop code.


(2) Potential participants that are uncertain of whether their cover crop was reported to the FSA are encouraged to contact their local FSA county office (*http://farmers.gov/service-locator*).


(3) Only acreage reports that are filed or amended prior to March 15, 2022, (or May 31, 2022, for 2022 crop year qualifying cover crops planted after March 15, 2022), will be considered for PCCP.


(b) Participants who are in violation of Highly Erodible Land or Wetlands Conservation (16 U.S.C. 3811, 3812, and 3821) are not eligible to receive benefits under PCCP.


(c) A person is not eligible to receive benefits under PCCP if at any time that person is determined to be ineligible for crop insurance.


(d) Supplemental Coverage Option, Enhanced Coverage Option, Post-Application Coverage Endorsement, and Hurricane Insurance Protection—Wind Index policies or endorsements are not eligible for PCCP.


(e) Stacked Income Protection Plan (STAX) and Margin Protection (MP) policies are only eligible for PCCP when insured as a standalone policy. STAX and MP endorsements to underlying polices are not eligible for PCCP.



---

[N] [87 FR 7929, Feb. 12, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 15839, Mar. 21, 2022]






