# § 21.4275   Practical training courses; measurement.

(a) *Medical and dental residencies and osteopathic internships and residencies.* VA will measure medical and dental residencies, and osteopathic internships and residencies as provided in § 21.4270(c) of this part if they are accredited and approved in accordance with § 21.4265(a) of this part.


(b) *Nursing courses.* (1) Courses for the objective of registered nurse or registered professional nurse will be measured on the basis of credit hours or clock hours of attendance, whichever is appropriate. The clock hours of attendance may include academic class time, clinical training, and supervised study periods. 


(2) Courses offered by schools which lead to the objective of practical nurse, practical trained nurse, or licensed practical nurse will be measured on credit hours or clock hours of attendance per week whichever is appropriate. 


(c) *Medical and dental specialty courses.* (1) Medical and dental specialty courses offered by a school whether accredited or nonaccredited, shall be measured on the basis of credit hours or clock hours of attendance, whichever is appropriate. 


(2) Medical and dental specialty courses offered in hospitals, clinics, laboratories or medical centers which are accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency shall be measured on the basis of clock hours of attendance per week. 


(d) *Medical and dental assistants courses for the Department of Veterans Affairs.* Programs approved in accordance with the provisions of § 21.4265(d) will be measured on a clock-hour basis as appropriate in accordance with § 21.4270, however, the program will be regarded as full-time instructional training: *Provided,* The combined total of the classroom and other formal instruction portion of the program and on-job-training portion of the program requires 30 or more clock hours of attendance per week. 


(e) *Professional training courses.* Nonmedically related professional training courses, such as the clinical pastoral course, shall be measured in semester hours of attendance or clock hours of attendance per week, whichever is appropriate. 


(f) *Other practical training courses.* These courses will be measured in semester hours of credit or clock hours of attendance per week, whichever is appropriate, if approved under § 21.4265(f). (See § 21.4265 for approval.) 



---

[N] [41 FR 26684, June 29, 1976, as amended at 43 FR 25429, June 13, 1978; 49 FR 39545, Oct. 9, 1984; 54 FR 33894, Aug. 17, 1989] 




