# ยง 1217.3   Basis for civil penalties and assessments.

(a) *False, fictitious or fraudulent claims.*

(1) A civil penalty of not more than $14,308 may be imposed upon a person who makes a claim to FHFA for property, services, or money where the person knows or has reason to know that the claim:




(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;


(ii) Includes or is supported by a written statement that:


(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or


(B) Omits a material fact and, as a result of the omission, is false, fictitious, or fraudulent, where the person making, presenting, or submitting such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or


(iii) Is for payment for the provision of property or services to FHFA which the person has not provided as claimed.


(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim for purposes of this part.


(3) A claim shall be considered made to FHFA, a recipient, or party when the claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, acting for or on behalf of FHFA, the recipient, or the party.


(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty, without regard to whether the property, services, or money actually is delivered or paid.


(5) There is no liability under this part if the amount of money or value of property or services claimed exceeds $150,000 as to each claim that a person submits. For purposes of this paragraph (a), a group of claims submitted simultaneously as part of a single transaction shall be considered a single claim.


(6) If the FHFA has made any payment, transferred property, or provided services for a claim, then FHFA may make an assessment against a person found liable in an amount of up to twice the amount of the claim or portion of the claim that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This assessment is in addition to the amount of any civil penalty imposed.


(b) *False, fictitious or fraudulent statements.*

(1) A civil penalty of up to $14,308 may be imposed upon a person who makes a written statement to FHFA with respect to a claim, contract, bid or proposal for a contract, or benefit from FHFA that:




(i) The person knows or has reason to know:


(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or


(B) Omits a material fact and is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission, where the person making, presenting, or submitting such statement has a duty to include such material fact; and


(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement.


(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.


(3) A statement shall be considered made to FHFA when the statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity acting for or on behalf of FHFA.


(c) *Joint and several liability.* A civil penalty or assessment may be imposed jointly and severally if more than one person is determined to be liable.



---

[N] [81 FR 43034, July 1, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 43968, Aug. 29, 2018; 84 FR 9704, Mar. 18, 2019; 85 FR 4905, Jan. 28, 2020; 86 FR 7496, Jan. 29, 2021; 87 FR 1661, Jan. 12, 2022; 87 FR 80025, Dec. 29, 2022; 89 FR 3333, Jan. 18, 2024; 90 FR 4609, Jan. 16, 2025]




