# § 3013.14   Service of subpoenas.

(a) *Manner of service*—(1) *Existing Postal Service officers and employees.* In addition to electronic service as provided by § 3010.127(a) of this chapter, subpoenas directed to existing Postal Service officers and employees must be served by personal service upon the General Counsel of the Postal Service or upon such other representative of the Postal Service as is authorized to receive process. Upon receipt, the subpoena shall be transmitted and delivered by the Postal Service to the existing officers and employees responsible for providing the information being sought by the subpoena. Subpoenas served upon the Postal Service and transmitted to Postal Service officers and employees shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.


(2) *Existing Postal Service agents and contractors.* In addition to electronic service as provided by § 3010.127(a) of this chapter, subpoenas directed to existing Postal Service agents and contractors must be served by personal service upon the General Counsel of the Postal Service or upon such other representative of the Postal Service as is authorized to receive process. Upon receipt, the subpoena shall be transmitted and delivered by the Postal Service to existing agents and contractors responsible for providing the information being sought by the subpoena. Service upon such agents and contractors shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.


(3) *Prior Postal Service officers, employees, agents, and contractors.* Subpoenas directed to Postal Service officers, employees, agents, and contractors who, at the time the subpoena is issued, are no longer officers or employees of the Postal Service or are no longer agents or contractors in an existing agency or contract relationship with the Postal Service, must be served by personal service. Service upon such officers, employees, agents, or contractors shall be accompanied by a written notice of the return date of the subpoena.


(4) *Service arrangements.* Arrangements for service upon the Postal Service under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or upon former Postal Service officers, employees, agents, or contractors under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be arranged either by the Commission or by the third party who requested issuance of the subpoena.


(b) *Return of service and proof of transmission*—(1) *Return of service.* Proof of service under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Secretary within two business days following service, unless a shorter or longer period is ordered by the Commission, and must be accompanied by certifications of:


(i) The manner, date, and time of delivery of the subpoena;


(ii) The name, business address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the perseon upon whom the subpoena was served; and


(iii) The return date of the subpoena.


(2) *Proof of transmission.* The Postal Service shall within two business days of transmission of a subpoena by the Postal Service to an existing Postal Service officer, employee, agent, or contractor pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or such shorter or longer period ordered by the Commission, file with the Secretary a certification of:


(i) The manner, date, and time of delivery of the subpoena;


(ii) The name, business address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the person to whom the subpoena was transmitted; and


(iii) The return date of the subpoena.


(c) *Notice of service, proof of transmission, and return date.* The Secretary shall post a notice of service and proof of transmission upon the Commission's website which specifies the return date of the subpoena.



---

[N] [75 FR 22107, Apr. 27, 2010, as amended at 85 FR 9646, 9660, Feb. 19, 2020]




