# § 2.17   Under Secretary for Rural Development.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Under Secretary for Rural Development: 


(1) Provide leadership and coordination within the executive branch of a Nationwide Rural Development Program utilizing the services of executive branch departments and agencies and the agencies, bureaus, offices, and services of the Department of Agriculture in coordination with rural development programs of State and local governments (7 U.S.C. 2204). 


(2) Coordinate activities relative to rural development among agencies reporting to the Under Secretary for Rural Development and, through appropriate channels, serve as the coordinating official for other departmental agencies having primary responsibilities for specific titles of the Rural Development Act of 1972, and allied legislation. 


(3) Administer a national program of economic, social, and environmental research and analysis, statistical programs, and associated service work related to rural people and the communities in which they live including rural industrialization; rural population and manpower; local government finance; income development strategies; housing; social services and utilization; adjustments to changing economic and technical forces; and other related matters. 


(4) Work with Federal agencies in encouraging the creation of rural community development organizations. 


(5) Assist other Federal agencies in making rural community development organizations aware of the Federal programs available to them. 


(6) Advise rural community development organizations of the availability of Federal assistance programs. 


(7) Advise other Federal agencies of the need for particular Federal programs. 


(8) Assist rural community development organizations in making contact with Federal agencies whose assistance may be of benefit to them. 


(9) Assist other Federal agencies and national organizations in developing means for extending their services effectively to rural areas. 


(10) Assist other Federal agencies in designating pilot projects in rural areas. 


(11) Conduct studies to determine how programs of the Department can be brought to bear on the economic development problems of the country and assure that local groups are receiving adequate technical assistance from Federal agencies or from local and State governments in formulating development programs and in carrying out planned development activities. 


(12) Assist other Federal agencies in formulating manpower development and training policies. 


(13) *Related to committee management.* Establish and reestablish regional, state, and local advisory committees for activities under his or her authority. This authority may not be re-delegated. 


(14) *Related to defense and emergency preparedness.* Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning rural development credit and financial assistance. 


(15) *Related to energy.* (i) Provide Department-wide operational support and coordination for loan and grant programs to foster and encourage the production of fuels from agricultural and forestry products or by-products. 


(ii) Participate as a Department representative at conferences, meetings and other contacts including liaison with the Department of Energy and other government agencies and departments with respect to implementation of established Department energy policy. 


(iii) Serve as Co-Chairperson of the Energy Coordinating Committee of the Department. 


(16) Collect, service, and liquidate loans made, insured, or guaranteed by the Rural Utilities Service, the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, or their predecessor agencies. 


(17) [Reserved]


(18) With respect to land and facilities under his or her authority, exercise the functions delegated to the Secretary by Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, under the following provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“the Act”), as amended: 


(i) Sections 104(a), (b), and (c)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(a), (b), and (c)(4)), with respect to removal and remedial actions in the event of release or threatened release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant into the environment; 


(ii) Sections 104(e)-(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(e)-(h)), with respect to information gathering and access requests and orders; compliance with Federal health and safety standards and wage and labor standards applicable to covered work; and emergency procurement powers; 


(iii) Section 104(i)(11) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(11)), with respect to the reduction of exposure to significant risk to human health; 


(iv) Section 104(j) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(j)), with respect to the acquisition of real property and interests in real property required to conduct a remedial action; 


(v) The first two sentences of section 105(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(d)), with respect to petitions for preliminary assessment of a release or threatened release; 


(vi) Section 105(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(f)), with respect to consideration of the availability of qualified minority firms in awarding contracts, but excluding that portion of section 105(f) pertaining to the annual report to Congress; 


(vii) Section 109 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9609), with respect to the assessment of civil penalties for violations of section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), and the granting of awards to individuals providing information; 


(viii) Section 111(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9611(f)), with respect to the designation of officials who may obligate money in the Hazardous Substances Superfund; 


(ix) Section 113(k) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9613(k)), with respect to establishing an administrative record upon which to base the selection of a response action and identifying and notifying potentially responsible parties; 


(x) Section 116(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9616(a)), with respect to preliminary assessment and site inspection of facilities; 


(xi) Sections 117(a) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9617(a) and (c)), with respect to public participation in the preparation of any plan for remedial action and explanation of variances from the final remedial action plan for any remedial action or enforcement action, including any settlement or consent decree entered into; 


(xii) Section 119 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9119), with respect to indemnifying response action contractors; 


(xiii) Section 121 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9621), with respect to cleanup standards; and 


(xiv) Section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), with respect to settlements, but excluding section 122(b)(1) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622(b)(1)), related to mixed funding agreements. 


(19) With respect to facilities and activities under his or her authority, to exercise the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 1-102 related to compliance with applicable pollution control standards and section 1-601 of Executive Order 12088, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243, to enter into an inter-agency agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an administrative consent order or a consent judgment in an appropriate State, interstate, or local agency, containing a plan and schedule to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable pollution control standards established pursuant to the following: 


(i) Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as further amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments, and the Federal Facility Compliance Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*); 


(ii) Federal Water Pollution Prevention and Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*); 


(iii) Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*); 


(iv) Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*); 


(v) Noise Control Act of 1972, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4901 *et seq.*); 


(vi) Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*); 


(vii) Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*); and 


(viii) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.*). 


(20) *Related to rural utilities service.* (i) Administer the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*) except for rural economic development loan and grant programs; (7 U.S.C. 940c and 950aa *et seq.*): Provided, however, that the Under Secretary may utilize consultants and attorneys for the provision of legal services pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 918, with the concurrence of the General Counsel. 


(ii) Administer the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 903 note). 


(iii) Designate the chief executive officer of the Rural Telephone Bank. 


(iv) Administer the following sections of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921, *et seq.*):


(A) Section 306 (7 U.S.C. 1926), related to water and waste facilities. 


(B) Section 306A (7 U.S.C. 1926a).


(C) Section 306B (7 U.S.C. 1926b).


(D) Section 306C (7 U.S.C. 1926c).


(E) Section 306D (7 U.S.C. 1926d).


(F) Section 306E (7 U.S.C. 1926e).


(G) Section 309 (7 U.S.C. 1929) and 309A (7 U.S.C. 1929a), relating to assets and programs related to watershed facilities, resource and conservation facilities, and water and waste facilities.


(H) Section 310A (7 U.S.C. 1931), relating to watershed and resource conservation and development


(I) Section 310B(b) (7 U.S.C. 1932(b)).


(J) [Reserved] 


(K) Administrative Provisions of subtitle D of the consolidated Farm and Rural Development act relating to rural utility activities.


(L) Section 379B (7 U.S.C. 2008p).


(v) Administer section 8, and those functions with respect to repayment of obligations under section 4 of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act (16 U.S.C. 1006a, 1004) and administer the Resource Conservation and Development Program to assist in carrying out resource conservation and development projects in rural areas under section 32(e) of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act (7 U.S.C. 1011(e)). 


(vi) Administer the Water and Waste Loan Program (7 U.S.C. 1926-1). 


(vii) Administer the Rural Wastewater Treatment Circuit Rider Program (7 U.S.C. 1926 note). 


(viii) Administer the Distance Learning and Medical Link Programs (7 U.S.C. 950aaa *et seq.*). 


(ix) Administer Water and Waste Facility Programs and activities (7 U.S.C. 1926-1).


(x) Consult with the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information to assist in the verification of eligibility of the broadband loan and grant programs of the Department of Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 950bb-6).


(xi) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).


(xii) Administer section 6407 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8107a), relating to a rural energy savings program.


(xiii) Administer section 6210 of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79, relating to funding of pending rural development loan and grant applications.


(xiv) Administer the authority under section 746 of Division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (Pub. L. 115-141), and any successor provisions in subsequent appropriations acts, to issue waivers to the U.S. iron and steel requirements for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a public water or wastewater system.


(xv) In coordination with the Federal Communications Commission, administer Section 12511 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub. L. 115-334) relating to the precision agriculture connectivity task force.


(21) *Related to rural business-cooperative.* (i) Administer the Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Programs under the Rural Electrification Act (7 U.S.C. 940c and 950aa *et seq.*). 


(ii) Administer the following sections of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*):


(A) Section 306(a)(110(A) (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(11)(A)), relating to grants for business technical assistance and planning. 


(B) [Reserved] 


(C) Sections 309 (7 U.S.C. 1929) and 309A (7 U.S.C. 1929a), relating to assets and programs related to rural development.


(D) Section 310B (7 U.S.C. 1932), relating to various Rural Development programs, except for subsection (b) of that section.


(E) Section 310H (7 U.S.C. 1936b), relating to an intermediary relending program.


(F) Administrative Provisions of subtitle D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act relating to rural business-cooperative activities.


(G) Section 378 (7 U.S.C. 2008m) relating to the National Rural Development Partnership;


(H) Section 379E (7 U.S.C. 2008s) relating to the Rural Microentrepreneur Assistance Program.


(I) Section 379F (7 U.S.C. 2000t) relating to the Expansion of Employment Opportunities for Individuals with Disabilities in Rural Areas Program.


(J) Section 379G (7 U.S.C. 2008u) relating to Health Care Services.


(K) Section 382A *et seq.* (7 U.S.C. 2009aa *et seq.*) relating to the Delta Regional Authority.


(L) Section 383A *et seq.* (7 U.S.C. 2009bb *et seq.*) relating to the Northern Great Plains Regional Authority.


(M) Section 384A *et seq.* (7 U.S.C. 2009cc *et seq.*) relating to the Rural Business Investment Program;


(N) Section 385A *et seq.* (7 U.S.C. 2009dd *et seq.*) relating to the Rural Collaborative Investment Program.


(iii) Administer Alcohol Fuels Credit Guarantee Program Account (Pub. L. 102-341, 106 Stat. 895). 


(iv) [Reserved]


(v) Administer loan programs in the Appalachian region under sections 203 and 204 of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 (40 U.S.C. App. 204). 


(vi) Administer section 601 of the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-620). 


(vii) Administer the Drought and Disaster Guaranteed Loan Program under section 331 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1929a note). 


(viii) Administer the Disaster Assistance for Rural Business Enterprises Guaranteed Loan Program under section 401 of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (7 U.S.C. 1929a note). 


(ix) Administer the Rural Economic Development Demonstration Grant Program (7 U.S.C. 2662a). 


(x) Administer the Economically Disadvantaged Rural Community Loan Program (7 U.S.C. 6616). 


(xi) Administer the assets of the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Corporation and the funds in the Alternative Agricultural Research and Commercialization Fund in accordance with section 6201 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2000 (note to 7 U.S.C. 5901 (repealed)).


(xii) Administer programs authorized by the Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926 (7 U.S.C. 451-457). 


(xiii) Carry out the responsibilities of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to the marketing aspects of cooperatives, including economic research and analysis, the application of economic research findings, technical assistance to existing and developing cooperatives, education on cooperatives, and statistical information pertaining to cooperatives as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627). 


(xiv) Work with institutions and international organizations throughout the world on subjects related to the development and operation of agricultural cooperatives. Such work may be carried out by: 


(A) Exchanging materials and results with such institutions or organizations; 


(B) Engaging in joint or coordinated activities; or 


(C) Stationing representatives at such institutions or organizations in foreign countries (7 U.S.C. 3291). 


(xv) Administer in rural areas the process of designation, provision of monitoring and oversight, and provision of technical assistance for Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities pursuant to section 13301 of Public Law 103-66, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (26 U.S.C. 1391 *et seq.*) 


(xvi) Work with Federal agencies in encouraging the creation of local rural community development organizations. Within a State, assist other Federal agencies in developing means for extending their services effectively to rural areas and in designating pilot projects in rural areas (7 U.S.C. 2204). 


(xvii) Conduct assessments to determine how programs of the Department can be brought to bear on the economic development problems of a State or local area and assure that local groups are receiving adequate and effective technical assistance from Federal agencies or from local and State governments in formulating development programs and in carrying out planned development activities (7 U.S.C. 2204b). 


(xviii) Develop a process through which State, sub-state and local rural development needs, goals, objectives, plans, and recommendations can be received and assessed on a continuing basis (7 U.S.C. 2204b). 


(xix) Prepare local or area-wide rural development strategies based on the needs, goals, objectives, plans and recommendations of local communities, sub-state areas and States (7 U.S.C. 2204b). 


(xx) Develop a system of outreach in the State or local area to promote rural development and provide for the publication and dissemination of information, through multi-media methods, relating to rural development. Advise local rural development organizations of availability of Federal programs and the type of assistance available, and assist in making contact with Federal program (7 U.S.C. 2204; 7 U.S.C. 2204b). 


(xxi) In coordination with the Under Secretary of Marketing and Regulatory Programs, administer the value-added producer grants program and farmers' markets and local food promotion program (7 U.S.C. 1627c(d)(5)-(6)).


(xxii) Administer the Agriculture Innovation Center Demonstration program (7 U.S.C. 1632b).


(xxiii) Administer the renewable energy programs authorized in sections 9003, 9004, 9005, 9007, and 9009 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 8103, 8104, 8105, 8107, and 8109).


(xxiv) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).


(xxv) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).


(xxvi) Administer the Healthy Food Financing Initiative under section 243 of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6953).


(xxvii) Administer section 6209 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 2207b), relating to the collection and reporting of program metrics.


(xxviii) Implementation of a program for the Federal procurement of biobased products and of a voluntary “USDA Certified Biobased product” labeling program (7 U.S.C. 8102).


(xxix) Entering into cooperative agreements to further research programs in the food and agricultural sciences, related to establishing and implementing Federal biobased procurement and voluntary biobased labeling programs (7 U.S.C. 3318).


(22) *Related to rural housing.* (i) Administer the following under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 *et seq.*):


(A) Section 306 (7 U.S.C. 1926), except with respect to financing for water and waste disposal facilities; or loans for rural electrification or telephone systems or facilities other than hydroelectric generating and related distribution systems and supplemental and supporting structures if they are eligible for Rural Utilities Service financing; and financing for grazing facilities and irrigation and drainage facilities; and subsection 306(a)(11).


(B) Section 309A (7 U.S.C. 1929a), regarding assets and programs relating to community facilities.


(C) Administrative Provisions of subtitle D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act relating to rural housing activities.


(D) Section 379 (7 U.S.C. 2008n) relating to the Rural Telework program;


(E) Section 379A (7 U.S.C. 2008o) relating to the Historic Barn Preservation program; and


(F) Section 379C (7 U.S.C. 2008q) relating to the Farm Workers Training Grant program.


(ii) Administer title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 *et seq.*), except those functions pertaining to research. 


(iii) In consultation with the Department of Justice, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Secretary of Health and Human Services, administer the emergency and transitional pet shelter and housing assistance grant program (34 U.S.C. 20127).


(iv) Administer the Rural Housing Disaster Program under sections 232, 234, and 253 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 (Pub. L. No. 91-606). 


(v) Exercise all authority and discretion vested in the Secretary by section 510(d) of the Housing Act of 1949, as amended by section 1045 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988, Pub. L. 100-628 (42 U.S.C. 1480(d)), including the following: 


(A) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the Department of Justice for the conduct of litigation, and refer such actions to the Department of Justice through the General Counsel; 


(B) Determine, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, which actions are to be referred to the General Counsel for the conduct of litigation and refer such actions; and 


(C) Enter into contracts with private sector attorneys for the conduct of litigation, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, after determining that the attorneys will provide competent and cost effective representation for the Rural Housing Service and representation by the attorney will either accelerate the process by which a family or person eligible for assistance under section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 will be able to purchase and occupy the housing involved, or preserve the quality of the housing involved. 


(vi) Administer the Rural Firefighters and Emergency Personnel Grant program (7 U.S.C. 2655).


(vii) Implement the information disclosure authorities of section 1619(b)(3)(A) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8791(b)(3)(A)).


(viii) In coordination with the Director, Office of Partnerships and Public Engagement, issue receipts under section 2501A(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2279-1(e)).


(23) *Related to hazardous materials management.* (i) Serve on the USDA Hazardous Materials Policy Council. 


(ii) Recommend actions and policies that enable USDA agencies under his or her authority to comply with the intent, purposes, and standards of environmental laws for pollution prevention, control, and abatement. 


(iii) Consult with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal agencies in developing pollution prevention, control, and abatement policies and programs relating to agencies under his or her authority. 


(iv) Recommend actions and policies of the loan and grant programs under his or her authority concerning compliance with the Asset Conservation, Lender Liability, and Deposit Insurance Protection Act of 1996, Subtitle E of Public Law No. 104-208. 


(24)-(25) [Reserved]


(26) *Related cooperative agreements.* Enter into cooperative agreements with other Federal agencies, State and local governments, and any other organizations or individuals to improve the coordination and effectiveness of Federal programs, services, and actions affecting rural areas, including the establishment and financing of interagency groups, as long as the objectives of the agreement will serve the mutual interest of the parties in rural development activities (7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4)).


(27) Exercise the authority in section 10101 of the Disaster Relief and Recovery Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008, Public Law 110-329, div. B., regarding the Rural Development Disaster Assistance Fund.


(28) In coordination with the Office of Tribal Relations, provide technical assistance to improve access by Tribal entities to rural development programs funded by the Department of Agriculture through available cooperative agreement authorities (7 U.S.C. 2671).


(29) Implement section 14218 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 6941a).


(30) *Related to biomass research and development.*

Administer section 9008 of FSRIA (7 U.S.C. 8108) with respect to biomass research and development, including administration of the Biomass Research and Development Board and Biomass Research and Development Technical Advisory Committee, and submission of reports to Congress, except for the authority delegated to the Under Secretary for REE in § 2.21(a)(1)(cci) to carry out the Biomass Research and Development Initiative; consult and coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under Secretary for REE and other mission areas within the Department as deemed necessary in carrying out the authorities delegated herein; and serve as the designated point of contact referenced in 7 U.S.C. 8108 for the Department, except for purposes of administering the Biomass Research and Development Initiative as provided in § 2.21(a)(1)(cci).


(31) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Rural Development, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in § 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(32) Oversee the Rural Health Liaison (7 U.S.C. 6946).


(b) The following authority is reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture: 


(1) *Related to rural business-cooperative.* Submission to the Congress of the report required pursuant to section 1469 of Pub. L. No. 101-624. 


(2) Approval of prize competitions that may result in the award of more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes under section 24(m)(4)(B) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719(m)(4)(B)).



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995, as amended at 65 FR 12427, Mar. 9, 2000; 66 FR 31107, June 11, 2001; 68 FR 27436, May 20, 2003; 74 FR 3402, Jan. 21, 2009; 75 FR 43368, July 23, 2010; 76 FR 52851, Aug. 24, 2011; 78 FR 40937, July 9, 2013; 79 FR 44106, July 30, 2014; 80 FR 58336, Sept. 29, 2015; 83 FR 22181, May 14, 2018; 83 FR 61311, Nov. 29, 2018; 85 FR 65506, Oct. 15, 2020]




