# § 27.171   General provisions.

(a) *Transfer of bulk distilled spirits from customs custody to bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant.* Imported distilled spirits in bulk containers may, under the provisions of this subpart, be withdrawn by the proprietor of a distilled spirits plant from customs custody and transferred in such bulk containers or by pipeline to the bonded premises of their plant, without payment of the internal revenue tax imposed on imported spirits by 26 U.S.C. 5001. Imported spirits so withdrawn and transferred to a distilled spirits plant may be redistilled or denatured only if of 185 degrees or more of proof, and may be withdrawn from the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant for any purpose authorized by 26 U.S.C. chapter 51, in the same manner as domestic distilled spirits. Imported distilled spirits transferred from customs custody to the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant under the provisions of this subpart shall be received and stored thereat, and withdrawn or transferred therefrom, subject to the applicable provisions of 27 CFR part 19. However, distilled spirits plant proprietors are not required to file application on TTB Form 5100.16 to receive imported spirits from customs custody. The person operating the bonded premises of the distilled spirits plant to which imported spirits are transferred shall become liable for the tax on distilled spirits withdrawn from customs custody under 26 U.S.C. 5232, upon release of the spirits from customs custody, and the importer shall thereupon be relieved of their liability for such tax.


(b) *Transfer of bulk natural wine from customs custody to a bonded wine cellar.* Imported “natural wine,” as defined in § 27.11, may, under the provisions of this subpart, be withdrawn in bulk by the proprietor of a bonded wine cellar from customs custody and transferred in bulk containers to the bonded wine cellar without payment of the internal revenue tax imposed on wine by 26 U.S.C. 5041. Imported wine so withdrawn and transferred may be withdrawn from a bonded wine cellar for any purpose authorized by 26 U.S.C. chapter 51, in the same manner as domestic wine. The proprietor of the bonded wine premises to which imported wine is transferred becomes liable for the tax on wine withdrawn from customs custody under 26 U.S. C. 5364. Upon release of the wine from customs custody, the importer is relieved of the liability for the tax.


(c) *Transfer of beer from customs custody to a brewery.* Imported bulk beer may, under the provisions of this subpart, be withdrawn by the proprietor of a bonded brewery from customs custody and transferred in bulk containers to brewery premises, without payment of the internal revenue tax imposed on beer by 26 U.S.C. 5051. 

Imported beer so withdrawn and transferred to bonded brewery premises may be withdrawn from a brewery's the premises of a distilled spirits plant for any purpose authorized by 26 U.S.C. chapter 51, in the same manner as domestic beer. The proprietor operating the bonded brewery premises to which imported beer is transferred becomes liable for the tax on beer withdrawn from customs custody under 26 U.S.C. 5418. Upon release of the beer from customs custody, the importer is relieved of the liability for the tax.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-62, 44 FR 71719, Dec. 11, 1979, as amended by T.D. ATF-198, 50 FR 8558, Mar. 1, 1985; T.D. TTB-145, 81 FR 94207, Dec. 22, 2016; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1134, Jan. 4, 2017; T.D.TTB-159, 85 FR 33542, June 2, 2020; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87944, Nov. 6, 2024]




