# § 697.4   Vessel permits and trap tags.

(a) *Limited access American lobster permit.* Any vessel of the United States that fishes for, possesses, or lands American lobster or Jonah crab in or harvested from the EEZ must have been issued and carry on board a valid Federal limited access lobster permit. The requirement in this paragraph (a) does not apply to: Charter, head, and commercial dive vessels that possess 6 or fewer American lobsters per person or 50 Jonah crab per person aboard the vessel if such lobsters or crabs are not intended for, nor used, in trade, barter or sale; recreational fishing vessels; and vessels that fish exclusively in state waters for American lobster or Jonah crab.


(1) *Eligibility.* To be eligible for issuance or renewal of a Federal limited access lobster permit, a vessel must:


(i) Have been issued a Federal limited access lobster permit for the preceding fishing year by the last day of such fishing year unless a CPH has been issued as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section or unless otherwise authorized by the Regional Administrator;


(ii) Be replacing a vessel that was issued a Federal limited access lobster permit for the preceding year; or


(iii) Be replacing a vessel issued a CPH.


(2) *Qualification restriction.* Unless the Regional Administrator determines otherwise, no more than one vessel may qualify, at any one time, for a Federal limited access lobster permit based on that or another vessel's fishing and permit history. If more than one vessel owner claims eligibility for a limited access permit, based on one vessel's fishing and permit history, the Regional Administrator will determine who is eligible for the permit or a CPH under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) *Change in ownership.* The fishing and permit history, and management area designation, when required of a vessel, is presumed to transfer with the vessel whenever it is bought, sold or otherwise transferred, unless there is a written agreement, signed by the transferor/seller and transferee/buyer, or other credible written evidence, verifying that the transferor/seller is retaining the vessel's fishing and permit history, and management area designation, for the purposes of replacing the vessel.


(4) *Consolidation restriction.* Federal limited access American lobster permits, and any rights or privileges associated thereto, may not be combined or consolidated.


(5) *Confirmation of permit history.* Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, a person who does not currently own a fishing vessel, but who has owned a qualifying vessel that has sunk, been destroyed, or transferred to another person, must apply for and receive a CPH if the fishing and permit history of such vessel has been retained lawfully by the applicant. To be eligible to obtain a CPH, the applicant must show that the qualifying vessel meets the eligibility requirements, as applicable, in this part. Issuance of a valid CPH preserves the eligibility of the applicant to apply for a limited access permit for a replacement vessel based on the qualifying vessel's fishing and permit history at a subsequent time, subject to the replacement provisions specified in this section. If fishing privileges have been assigned or allocated previously under this part, based on the qualifying vessel's fishing and permit history, the CPH also preserves such fishing privileges. A CPH must be applied for in order for the applicant to preserve the fishing rights and limited access eligibility of the qualifying vessel. An application for a CPH must be received by the Regional Administrator no later than 30 days prior to the end of the first full fishing year in which a vessel permit cannot be issued. Failure to do so is considered abandonment of the permit as described in paragraph (o) of this section. A CPH issued under this part will remain valid until the fishing and permit history preserved by the CPH is used to qualify a replacement vessel for a limited access permit. Any decision regarding the issuance of a CPH for a qualifying vessel that has been applied for or been issued previously a limited access permit is a final agency action subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 704. Information requirements for the CPH application are the same as those for a limited access permit. Any request for information about the vessel on the CPH application form means the qualifying vessel that has been sunk, destroyed, or transferred. Vessel permit applicants who have been issued a CPH and who wish to obtain a vessel permit for a replacement vessel based upon the previous vessel history may do so pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section.


(6) *Restriction on permit splitting.* A Federal limited access lobster permit will not be issued to a vessel or its replacement, or remain valid, if the vessels' permit or fishing history has been used to qualify another vessel for another Federal fishery.


(7) *Management area designations for vessels fishing with traps.* (i) It is unlawful for vessels issued a limited access American lobster permit fishing with traps, to retain on board, land, or possess American lobster in or from the management areas specified in § 697.18, unless such fishing vessel has been issued a valid management area designation certificate or valid limited access American lobster permit specifying such management area(s).




(ii) Each owner of a fishing vessel that fishes with traps capable of catching lobster must declare to NMFS in his/her annual application for permit renewal which management areas, as described in § 697.18, the vessel will fish in for lobster with trap gear during that fishing season. A federal lobster permit holder may declare into Lobster Conservation Management Areas 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and/or the Outer Cape Management Area to fish with traps, only in the following two circumstances:


(A) The NOAA Regional Administrator previously qualified the permit into the requested area as part of the Area 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and/or Outer Cape Cod Limited Access Program during the initial limited access area qualification process; and/or


(B) The permit holder, even if the permit has not qualified as described in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(A) of this section, is seeking access to Area 2, 3, and/or the Outer Cape Area based upon ownership of traps acquired as part of the Trap Transfer Program, described in § 697.27, that the NOAA Regional Administrator has previously qualified and allocated under the Area 2, 3, and/or the Outer Cape Cod Limited Access Programs.


(iii) A lobster management area designation certificate or limited access American lobster permit shall specify in which lobster management area or areas the vessel may fish.


(iv) Once a vessel has been issued a lobster management area designation certificate or limited access American lobster permit specifying the lobster EEZ management areas in which the vessel may fish, no changes to the EEZ management areas specified may be made for such vessel for the remainder of the fishing year. There are two exceptions to this re-designation restriction:


(A) Vessels that have been bought, transferred, or become a replacement vessel for another qualified vessel may request re-designation of the EEZ management areas within 45 days of the effective date of the vessel's permit; and


(B) All vessels will have one opportunity to request a correction in permit category, if such request is made in writing to the Regional Administrator within 45 days of the effective date of the vessel's permit.


(v) A vessel issued a lobster management area designation certificate or limited access American lobster permit specifying more than one EEZ management area must abide by the most restrictive management measures in effect for any one of the specified areas, regardless of the area being fished, for the entire fishing year.


(vi)-(viii) [Reserved]


(b) *Condition.* Vessel owners who apply for a Federal limited access American lobster permit under this section must agree, as a condition of the permit, that the vessel and vessel's fishing, catch, and pertinent gear (without regard to whether such fishing occurs in the EEZ or landward of the EEZ, and without regard to where such fish or gear are possessed, taken, or landed), are subject to all requirements of this part, as well as gear, time, and area restrictions issued or set forth in other parts, including, but not limited to, 50 CFR parts 229 and 648. The vessel and all such fishing, catch, and gear shall remain subject to all applicable state or local requirements. If a requirement of this part and a management measure required by state or local law differ, any vessel owner permitted to fish in the EEZ must comply with the more restrictive requirement.


(c) *Vessel permit application.* Applicants for a Federal limited access American lobster permit under this section must submit a completed application on an appropriate form obtained from the Regional Administrator. To be complete, an application for a Federal limited access American lobster permit must contain at least the following information, and any other information specified on the application form or otherwise required by the Regional Administrator: Vessel name; owner name, mailing address, and telephone number; U.S. Coast Guard documentation number and a copy of the vessel's U.S. Coast Guard documentation or, if undocumented, state registration number and a copy of the state registration; lobster management area designation the vessel will fish in, as specified in § 697.18, if fishing with traps capable of catching American lobster; home port and principal port of landing; overall length; gross tonnage; net tonnage; engine horsepower; year the vessel was built; type of construction; type of propulsion; approximate fish-hold capacity; type of fishing gear used by the vessel; number of crew; permit category; if the owner is a corporation, a copy of the Certificate of Incorporation; and the names and addresses of all shareholders owning 25 percent or more of the corporation's shares; if the owner is a partnership, a copy of the Partnership Agreement and the names and addresses of all partners; if there is more than one owner, names of all owners having more than a 25 percent interest; and name and signature of the owner or the owner's authorized representative. The application must be signed by the owner of the vessel, or the owner's authorized representative, and be submitted to the Regional Administrator at least 30 days prior to the date on which the permit is needed by the applicant. The Regional Administrator shall notify the applicant of any deficiency in the application.


(d) *Trap tag application, lost and replacement tags.* (1) Any lobster trap fished in Federal waters must have a valid Federal lobster trap tag permanently attached to the trap bridge or central cross-member, unless exempt under § 697.26.


(2) Trap tags shall be issued by the Regional Administrator, or, by state agencies, by agreement with the Regional Administrator, provided that such state tagging programs accurately identify the Federal limited access American lobster permit holder. NMFS will provide notice to American lobster permit holders as to the procedure for applying for trap tags and any required fees.


(3) Vessel owners or operators are required to report to the Regional Administrator lost, destroyed, and missing tags as soon as feasible within 7 days after the tags have been discovered lost, destroyed, or missing, by letter or fax to the Regional Administrator.


(4) Requests for replacement of lost tags in excess of the tag limit specified in § 697.19(c) must be submitted in writing to the Regional Administrator on an appropriate form obtained from the Regional Administrator and signed by the permit holder or authorized representative. The form and request for replacement tags will be reviewed by the Regional Administrator on a case-by-case basis and a decision will be reached on the number of replacement tags to be issued, if any. A check for the cost of the replacement tags must be received before tags will be re-issued.


(e) *Fees.* The Regional Administrator may charge a fee to recover the administrative expenses of issuing a permit or trap tags required under this section. Fee amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook, available from the Regional Administrator, for determining administrative costs of each special product or service. Fees may not exceed such costs and shall be specified with each application form. The applicable fee must accompany each application; if it does not, the application will be considered incomplete for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section. Any fee paid by an insufficiently funded commercial instrument shall render any permit issued on the basis thereof null and void.


(f) *Issuance.* (1) Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, the Regional Administrator shall issue a permit or tags, as applicable, within 30 days of receipt of the application unless:


(i) The applicant has failed to submit a complete application. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, documentation, and fees, if applicable, have been received and the applicant has submitted all applicable reports specified in paragraph (q) of this section.


(ii) The application was not received by the Regional Administrator by any applicable deadline set forth in this section;


(iii) The applicant and applicant's vessel failed to meet all applicable eligibility requirements set forth in this section or the number of tags requested exceeds the applicable tag limit specified in § 697.19(c);


(iv) The applicant has failed to meet any other application or tag requirements stated in this part.


(2) *Incomplete applications.* Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application for any permit under this part, the Regional Administrator shall notify the applicant of the deficiency in the application. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned.


(g) *Expiration.* A permit expires annually upon the renewal date specified in the permit.


(h) *Duration.* A permit will continue in effect until the renewal date unless it is revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904, or otherwise expires, or ownership changes, or the applicant has failed to report any change in the information on the permit application to the Regional Administrator as specified in paragraph (k) of this section.


(i) *Reissuance.* A vessel permit may be reissued by the Regional Administrator when requested in writing by the owner or authorized representative, stating the need for reissuance, the name of the vessel, and the number of the permit requested to be reissued. An application for a reissued permit is not considered a new application. The fee for a reissued permit shall be the same as for an initial permit.


(j) *Transfer.* A permit issued under this part is not transferable or assignable. A permit will be valid only for the fishing vessel, owner and/or person for which it is issued.


(k) *Change in application information.* Within 15 days after a change in the information contained in an application submitted under this section, a written notice of the change must be submitted to the Regional Administrator. If the written notice of the change in information is not received by the Regional Administrator within 15 days, the permit is void.


(l) *Alteration.* Any permit that has been altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid.


(m) *Display.* A vessel permit must be carried, at all times, on board the vessel for which it is issued and shall be subject to inspection upon request by any authorized officer. Any permit issued under this part must be maintained in legible condition.


(n) *Sanctions.* Permits issued or sought under this section may be suspended, revoked, or modified, by procedures governing enforcement-related permit sanctions and denials, found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.


(o) *Abandonment or voluntary relinquishment of limited access American lobster permits.* Failure to renew a limited access permit in any fishing year bars the renewal of the permit in subsequent years. If a vessel's Federal limited access American lobster permit or CPH is voluntarily relinquished to the Regional Administrator, or abandoned through failure to renew or otherwise, no Federal limited access American lobster permit or CPH may be reissued or renewed based on the qualifying vessel's history.


(p) *Permit category change.* A vessel permit category change (for individuals who possess a dual Federal limited access permit for American lobster and black sea bass and who restrict fishing operations to Area 5) may be issued by the Regional Administrator when requested in writing by the owner or by an authorized representative of a vessel meeting the eligibility requirements under § 697.26(a).


(q) *Fishing Vessel Trip Reports*—(1) *Information to be Submitted.* Beginning April 1, 2024, all federally permitted lobster vessels must maintain onboard the vessel and submit an electronic fishing log to NMFS for each fishing trip. Both the vessel permit owner and the vessel permit operator are responsible for ensuring the report is accurate and is filed. The report must be filed regardless of species fished for or taken during the trip and this report must be entered into and submitted through a software application approved by NMFS. The report must contain the following information:


(i) Vessel name;


(ii) USCG documentation number (or state registration number, if undocumented);


(iii) Permit number;


(iv) Date/time left port on fishing trip;


(v) Date/time returned from port on fishing trip;


(vi) Trip type (commercial, recreational, party, or charter);


(vii) Number of crew;


(viii) Number of anglers (if a charter or party boat);


(ix) Gear fished;


(x) Lobster trawl/string information;


(A) Total number of trawls/strings in the water;


(B) Average number of pots per trawl/string;


(C) Total number of pots in the water;


(xi) Entrance (ring/hoop) size;


(xii) Chart area fished, based on the location of the start of haul back;


(xiii) Latitude/longitude where the majority of fishing effort occurred;


(xiv) Average depth where the majority of fishing effort occurred;


(xv) Total number of strings hauled per chart area per trip;


(xvi) Average soak time per trawl/string;


(xvii) Hail weight, in pounds (or count of individual fish, if a party or charter vessel), by species, of all species, or parts of species;


(xviii) Dealer permit number;


(xix) Dealer name;


(xx) Date sold, port and state landed; and


(xxi) Vessel operator's name, signature, and operator's permit number (if applicable).


(xxii) Total number of traps hauled by chart area;


(xxiii) Number of traps in chart area fished;


(xxiv) Average number of traps per string hauled in the chart area fished;


(xxv) Number of buoy lines in the chart area fished; and


(xxvi) Total number of buoy lines in the water.


(2) *When to fill out a vessel trip report.* Vessel trip reports required by paragraph (q)(1)(i) of this section must be filled out with all required information, except for information not yet ascertainable, prior to entering port. Information that may be considered unascertainable prior to entering port includes dealer name, dealer permit number, and date sold. Vessel trip reports must be completed as soon as the missing information is ascertained.


(3) *Inspection.* All persons required to submit reports under this part must make these reports and their underlying information available for inspection immediately upon the request of an authorized officer or an employee of NMFS designated by the Regional Administrator to make such inspections.


(4) *Submitting reports*—(i) For any vessel issued a valid lobster permit, or eligible to renew a limited access permit under this part, fishing vessel trip reports, required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must be submitted within 48 hours of the conclusion of a trip.


(ii) For the purposes of paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section, the date when fish are offloaded from a commercial vessel will establish the conclusion of a commercial trip.


(iii) For the purposes of paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section, the date a charter/party vessel enters port will establish the conclusion of a for-hire trip.



---

[N] [64 FR 68248, Dec. 6, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 14501, Mar. 13, 2001; 68 FR 14925, Mar. 27, 2003; 71 FR 13037, Mar. 14, 2006; 77 FR 32431, June 1, 2012; 79 FR 19021, Apr. 7, 2014; 84 FR 61579, Nov. 13, 2019; 88 FR 67676, Oct. 2, 2023; 88 FR 67676, Oct. 2, 2023]




