# ยง 484.60   Condition of participation: Care planning, coordination of services, and quality of care.

Patients are accepted for treatment on the reasonable expectation that an HHA can meet the patient's medical, nursing, rehabilitative, and social needs in his or her place of residence. Each patient must receive an individualized written plan of care, including any revisions or additions. The individualized plan of care must specify the care and services necessary to meet the patient-specific needs as identified in the comprehensive assessment, including identification of the responsible discipline(s), and the measurable outcomes that the HHA anticipates will occur as a result of implementing and coordinating the plan of care. The individualized plan of care must also specify the patient and caregiver education and training. Services must be furnished in accordance with accepted standards of practice.


(a) *Standard: Plan of care.* (1) Each patient must receive the home health services that are written in an individualized plan of care that identifies patient-specific measurable outcomes and goals, and which is established, periodically reviewed, and signed by a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, or podiatry or allowed practitioner acting within the scope of his or her state license, certification, or registration. If a physician or allowed practitioner refers a patient under a plan of care that cannot be completed until after an evaluation visit, the physician or allowed practitioner is consulted to approve additions or modifications to the original plan.


(2) The individualized plan of care must include the following:


(i) All pertinent diagnoses;


(ii) The patient's mental, psychosocial, and cognitive status;


(iii) The types of services, supplies, and equipment required;


(iv) The frequency and duration of visits to be made;


(v) Prognosis;


(vi) Rehabilitation potential;


(vii) Functional limitations;


(viii) Activities permitted;


(ix) Nutritional requirements;


(x) All medications and treatments;


(xi) Safety measures to protect against injury;


(xii) A description of the patient's risk for emergency department visits and hospital re-admission, and all necessary interventions to address the underlying risk factors.


(xiii) Patient and caregiver education and training to facilitate timely discharge;


(xiv) Patient-specific interventions and education; measurable outcomes and goals identified by the HHA and the patient;


(xv) Information related to any advanced directives; and


(xvi) Any additional items the HHA or physician or allowed practitioner may choose to include.


(3) All patient care orders, including verbal orders, must be recorded in the plan of care.


(b) *Standard: Conformance with physician or allowed practitioner orders.* (1) Drugs, services, and treatments are administered only as ordered by a physician or allowed practitioner.


(2) Influenza and pneumococcal vaccines may be administered per agency policy developed in consultation with a physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist, and after an assessment of the patient to determine for contraindications.


(3) Verbal orders must be accepted only by personnel authorized to do so by applicable state laws and regulations and by the HHA's internal policies.


(4) When services are provided on the basis of a physician or allowed practitioner's verbal orders, a nurse acting in accordance with state licensure requirements, or other qualified practitioner responsible for furnishing or supervising the ordered services, in accordance with state law and the HHA's policies, must document the orders in the patient's clinical record, and sign, date, and time the orders. Verbal orders must be authenticated and dated by the physician or allowed practitioner in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations, as well as the HHA's internal policies.


(c) *Standard: Review and revision of the plan of care.* (1) The individualized plan of care must be reviewed and revised by the physician or allowed practitioner who is responsible for the home health plan of care and the HHA as frequently as the patient's condition or needs require, but no less frequently than once every 60 days, beginning with the start of care date. The HHA must promptly alert the relevant physician(s) or allowed practitioner(s) to any changes in the patient's condition or needs that suggest that outcomes are not being achieved and/or that the plan of care should be altered.


(2) A revised plan of care must reflect current information from the patient's updated comprehensive assessment, and contain information concerning the patient's progress toward the measurable outcomes and goals identified by the HHA and patient in the plan of care.


(3) Revisions to the plan of care must be communicated as follows:


(i) Any revision to the plan of care due to a change in patient health status must be communicated to the patient, representative (if any), caregiver, and all physicians or allowed practitioners issuing orders for the HHA plan of care.


(ii) Any revisions related to plans for the patient's discharge must be communicated to the patient, representative, caregiver, all physicians or allowed practitioners issuing orders for the HHA plan of care, and the patient's primary care practitioner or other health care professional who will be responsible for providing care and services to the patient after discharge from the HHA (if any).


(d) *Standard: Coordination of care.* The HHA must:


(1) Assure communication with all physicians or allowed practitioners involved in the plan of care.


(2) Integrate orders from all physicians or allowed practitioners involved in the plan of care to assure the coordination of all services and interventions provided to the patient.


(3) Integrate services, whether services are provided directly or under arrangement, to assure the identification of patient needs and factors that could affect patient safety and treatment effectiveness and the coordination of care provided by all disciplines.


(4) Coordinate care delivery to meet the patient's needs, and involve the patient, representative (if any), and caregiver(s), as appropriate, in the coordination of care activities.


(5) Ensure that each patient, and his or her caregiver(s) where applicable, receive ongoing education and training provided by the HHA, as appropriate, regarding the care and services identified in the plan of care. The HHA must provide training, as necessary, to ensure a timely discharge.


(e) *Standard: Written information to the patient.* The HHA must provide the patient and caregiver with a copy of written instructions outlining:


(1) Visit schedule, including frequency of visits by HHA personnel and personnel acting on behalf of the HHA.


(2) Patient medication schedule/instructions, including: medication name, dosage and frequency and which medications will be administered by HHA personnel and personnel acting on behalf of the HHA.


(3) Any treatments to be administered by HHA personnel and personnel acting on behalf of the HHA, including therapy services.


(4) Any other pertinent instruction related to the patient's care and treatments that the HHA will provide, specific to the patient's care needs.


(5) Name and contact information of the HHA clinical manager.



---

[N] [82 FR 4578, Jan. 13, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 27628, May 8, 2020]




