# ยง 131.520   Audits, examinations, and investigations.

(a) *General audits.* The SBA may conduct WBC audits.


(1) Audits of a recipient organization will be conducted pursuant to the Single Audit Act of 1984 (if applicable) and applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars.


(2) The SBA's Office of Inspector General (OIG) or its agents may inspect, audit, investigate, or otherwise review the WBC as the Inspector General deems appropriate.


(b) *Financial examinations.* The WBC will have periodic financial examinations conducted by either the SBA or an independent contracted firm. WBCs, in accordance with the program announcement and the cooperative agreement, must comply with all requirements set forth for such purposes.


(1) Applicant organizations proposing to enter the WBC program for the first time shall be subject to a post-award examination or sufficiency review conducted by or coordinated with the SBA or its designee. As part of the financial examination, the financial examiner will verify the adequacy of the accounting system, the suitability of proposed costs, and the nature and sources of proposed matching funds.


(2) Examinations by the SBA will not serve as a substitute for audits required of Federal recipients under the Single Audit Act of 1984, 31 U.S.C. Chapter 75 or applicable Office of Management and Budget guidelines (see 2 CFR part 200), nor will such internal reviews serve as a substitute for audits to be conducted by the SBA's Office of the Inspector General under authority of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended.


(c) *Investigations.* The SBA may conduct investigations to determine whether any person or entity has engaged in acts or practices constituting a violation of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 656; any rule, order, or regulation; or any other applicable Federal law.




