# § 431.342   Definitions concerning compressors.

The following definitions are applicable to this subpart, including appendix A. In cases where there is a conflict, the language of the definitions adopted in this section take precedence over any descriptions or definitions found in any other source, including in ISO Standard 1217:2009(E), “Displacement compressors—Acceptance tests,” as amended through Amendment 1:2016(E), “Calculation of isentropic efficiency and relationship with specific energy” (incorporated by reference, see § 431.343). In cases where definitions reference design intent, DOE will consider all relevant information, including marketing materials, labels and certifications, and equipment design, to determine design intent.


*Actual volume flow rate* means the volume flow rate of air, compressed and delivered at the standard discharge point, referred to conditions of total temperature, total pressure and composition prevailing at the standard inlet point, and as determined in accordance with the test procedures prescribed in § 431.344.


*Air compressor* means a compressor designed to compress air that has an inlet open to the atmosphere or other source of air, and is made up of a compression element (bare compressor), driver(s), mechanical equipment to drive the compressor element, and any ancillary equipment.


*Air-cooled compressor* means a compressor that utilizes air to cool both the compressed air and, if present, any auxiliary substance used to facilitate compression, and that is not a liquid-cooled compressor.


*Ancillary equipment* means any equipment distributed in commerce with an air compressor but that is not a bare compressor, driver, or mechanical equipment. Ancillary equipment is considered to be part of a given air compressor, regardless of whether the ancillary equipment is physically attached to the bare compressor, driver, or mechanical equipment at the time when the air compressor is distributed in commerce.


*Auxiliary substance* means any substance deliberately introduced into a compression process to aid in compression of a gas by any of the following: Lubricating, sealing mechanical clearances, or absorbing heat.


*Bare compressor* means the compression element and auxiliary devices (*e.g.,* inlet and outlet valves, seals, lubrication system, and gas flow paths) required for performing the gas compression process, but does not include any of the following:


(1) The driver;


(2) Speed-adjusting gear(s);


(3) Gas processing apparatuses and piping; and


(4) Compressor equipment packaging and mounting facilities and enclosures.


*Basic model* means all units of a class of compressors manufactured by one manufacturer, having the same primary energy source, the same compressor motor nominal horsepower, and essentially identical electrical, physical, and functional (or pneumatic) characteristics that affect energy consumption and energy efficiency.


*Brushless electric motor* means a machine that converts electrical power into rotational mechanical power without use of sliding electrical contacts.


*Compressor* means a machine or apparatus that converts different types of energy into the potential energy of gas pressure for displacement and compression of gaseous media to any higher pressure values above atmospheric pressure and has a pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure greater than 1.3.


*Compressor motor nominal horsepower* means the motor horsepower of the electric motor, as determined in accordance with the applicable procedures in subparts B and X of this part, with which the rated air compressor is distributed in commerce.


*Driver* means the machine providing mechanical input to drive a bare compressor directly or through the use of mechanical equipment.


*Fixed-speed compressor* means an air compressor that is not capable of adjusting the speed of the driver continuously over the driver operating speed range in response to incremental changes in the required compressor flow rate.


*Full-load actual volume flow rate* means the actual volume flow rate of the compressor at the full-load operating pressure.


*Liquid-cooled compressor* means a compressor that utilizes liquid coolant provided by an external system to cool both the compressed air and, if present, any auxiliary substance used to facilitate compression.


*Lubricant-free compressor* means a compressor that does not introduce any auxiliary substance into the compression chamber at any time during operation.


*Lubricated compressor* means a compressor that introduces an auxiliary substance into the compression chamber during compression.


*Maximum full-flow operating pressure* means the maximum discharge pressure at which the compressor is capable of operating, as determined in accordance with the test procedure prescribed in § 431.344.


*Mechanical equipment* means any component of an air compressor that transfers energy from the driver to the bare compressor.


*Package isentropic efficiency* means the ratio of power required for an ideal isentropic compression process to the actual packaged compressor power input used at a given load point, as determined in accordance with the test procedures prescribed in § 431.344.


*Package specific power* means the compressor power input at a given load point, divided by the actual volume flow rate at the same load point, as determined in accordance with the test procedures prescribed in § 431.344.


*Positive displacement compressor* means a compressor in which the admission and diminution of successive volumes of the gaseous medium are performed periodically by forced expansion and diminution of a closed space(s) in a working chamber(s) by means of displacement of a moving member(s) or by displacement and forced discharge of the gaseous medium into the high-pressure area.


*Pressure ratio at full-load operating pressure* means the ratio of discharge pressure to inlet pressure, determined at full-load operating pressure in accordance with the test procedures prescribed in § 431.344.


*Reciprocating compressor* means a positive displacement compressor in which gas admission and diminution of its successive volumes are performed cyclically by straight-line alternating movements of a moving member(s) in a compression chamber(s).


*Rotary compressor* means a positive displacement compressor in which gas admission and diminution of its successive volumes or its forced discharge are performed cyclically by rotation of one or several rotors in a compressor casing.


*Rotor* means a compression element that rotates continually in a single direction about a single shaft or axis.


*Variable-speed compressor* means an air compressor that is capable of adjusting the speed of the driver continuously over the driver operating speed range in response to incremental changes in the required compressor actual volume flow rate.


*Water-injected lubricated compressor* means a lubricated compressor that uses injected water as an auxiliary substance.



---

[N] [82 FR 1101, Jan. 4, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 1591, Jan. 10, 2020]




