# § 301.6323(c)-3   Protection for obligatory disbursement agreements.

(a) *In general.* Even though a notice of a lien imposed by section 6321 is filed in accordance with § 301.6323(f)-1, the lien is not valid with respect to a security interest which:


(1) Comes into existence after the tax lien filing,


(2) Is in qualified property covered by the terms of an obligatory disbursement agreement entered into before the tax lien filing, and


(3) Is protected under local law against a judgment lien arising, as of the time of tax lien filing, out of an unsecured obligation.


(b) *Obligatory disbursement agreement.* For purposes of this section the term “obligatory disbursement agreement” means a written agreement, entered into by a person in the course of his trade or business, to make disbursements. An agreement is treated as an obligatory disbursement agreement only with respect to disbursements which are required to be made by reason of the intervention of the rights of a person other than the taxpayer. The obligation to pay must be conditioned upon an event beyond the control of the obligor. For example, the provisions of this section are applicable where an issuing bank obligates itself to honor drafts or other demands for payment on a letter of credit and a bank, in good faith, relies upon that letter of credit in making advances. The provisions of this section are also applicable, for example, where a bonding company obligates itself to make payments to indemnify against loss or liability and, under the terms of the bond, makes a payment with respect to a loss. The priority described in this section is not applicable, for example, in the case of an accommodation endorsement by an endorser who assumes his obligation other than in the course of his trade or business. 


(c) *Qualified property.* Except as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, the term “qualified property,” for purposes of this section, means property subject to the lien imposed by section 6321 at the time of tax lien filing and, to the extent that the acquisition is directly traceable to the obligatory disbursement, property acquired by the taxpayer after tax lien filing.


(d) *Special rule for surety agreements.* Where the obligatory disbursement agreement is an agreement insuring the performance of a contract of the taxpayer and another person, the term “qualified property” shall be treated as also including—


(1) The proceeds of the contract the performance of which was insured, and


(2) If the contract the performance of which was insured is a contract to construct or improve real property, to produce goods, or to furnish services, any tangible personal property used by the taxpayer in the performance of the insured contract.


(3) *Examples.* This section may be illustrated by the following examples:



---

[N] [T.D. 7429, 41 FR 35504, Aug. 23, 1976]




