# § 32.45   Montana.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Benton Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, swan, and coot in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunters to enter and remain in open hunting areas 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(ii) Hunters with a documented mobility disability may reserve an accessible blind in advance by contacting the refuge office.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, and gray partridge in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(b) *Benton Lake Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the district.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow the hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, gray partridge, coyote, skunk, red fox, raccoon, hare, rabbit, and tree squirrel on designated areas of the district.




(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the district.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the district.


(c) *Black Coulee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, swan, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You must remove all boats, decoys, portable blinds, other personal property, and any materials brought onto the refuge for blind construction by legal sunset each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, sage grouse, gray partridge, fox, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Fox and coyote hunters may only use centerfire rifles, rimfire rifles, or shotguns with approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)).


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated portions of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunters to leave portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms on the refuge from August 15 through December 15.


(ii) You must visibly mark portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms with your automated licensing system (ALS) number.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Bowdoin National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, swan, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, sage grouse, gray partridge, fox, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a refuge Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) to hunt fox and coyotes.


(ii) Fox and coyote hunters may only use centerfire rifles, rimfire rifles, or shotguns with approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)).


(iii) Any person hunting or accompanying a hunter must wear a minimum of 400 square inches (2,581 square centimeters) of hunter orange (fluorescent) material above the waist, visible at all times.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(e) *Bowdoin Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the district.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the district.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the district subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may leave portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms on waterfowl production areas (WPAs) from August 15 through December 15.


(ii) You must label portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms with your automated licensing system (ALS) number. The label must be legible from the ground.


(iii) We only allow the use of archery, muzzleloader (as governed by State regulations), or shotgun on the McNeil Slough WPA and Hammond WPA.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the district.


(f) *Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds, turkey, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow coyote hunting from the first day of antelope rifle season through March 1 annually.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, pronghorn, white-tailed deer, mule deer, and mountain lion on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of portable blinds and stands.


(ii) We limit each hunter to three stands or blinds. The hunter must have their automated licensing system (ALS) number visibly marked on the stand(s) or blind(s).


(iii) You may install portable stands and blinds no sooner than August 1, and you must remove them by December 15 of each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) Mountain lion hunting will follow State-established dates for the archery-only and fall seasons.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(g) *Charles M. Russell Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the district subject to the following condition: You must remove all watercraft and personal equipment following each day of hunting (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game bird hunting on designated areas of the district.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the district subject to the following condition: You must remove your tree stand(s) from the refuge after each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the district subject to the following condition: Anglers must remove all motor boats and other personal equipment at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(h) *Creedman Coulee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, swan, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, sage grouse, gray partridge, fox, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(i) *Hailstone National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow only upland game bird hunting on designated areas of the refuge.


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(j) *Hewitt Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, swan, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You must remove all boats, decoys, portable blinds, other personal property, and any materials brought onto the refuge for blind construction by legal sunset each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, sage grouse, gray partridge, fox, and coyote on designated portions of the refuge subject to the following condition: Fox and coyote hunters may use only centerfire rifles, rim-fire rifles, or shotguns with approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)).


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunters to leave portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms on the refuge from August 15 through December 15.


(ii) You must visibly mark portable tree stands, portable blinds, and freestanding elevated platforms with your automated licensing system (ALS) number.


(4) [Reserved]


(k) *Lake Mason National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(l) *Lake Thibadeau National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, coot, swan, sandhill crane, and mourning dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, sharp-tailed grouse, sage grouse, gray partridge, fox, and coyote on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(m) *Lamesteer National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Hunters must obtain landowner permission before hunting on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Hunters must obtain landowner permission before hunting on the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Hunters must obtain landowner permission before hunting on the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Anglers must obtain landowner permission before fishing on the refuge.


(n) *Lee Metcalf National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must hunt from an established blind.


(ii) Legal entry time into the hunting area is no earlier than 2 hours before legal shooting hours. All hunters must exit the hunting area no later than 2 hours after legal shooting hours.


(iii) We prohibit wildlife observation, scouting, and loitering during waterfowl hunting season at the waterfowl hunting area parking lot and on the refuge road leading to the waterfowl hunting area parking lot.


(iv) We close the waterfowl hunting area to waterfowl hunting on Mondays and Thursdays.


(v) Each hunter must set the appropriate blind selector (metal flip tag) before and after hunting.


(vi) We prohibit attempting to “reserve” a blind for use later in the day by depositing a vehicle or other equipment on the refuge. A hunter must be physically present in the hunting area in order to use a blind. The exceptions are blinds 2 and 7, which may be reserved for hunters with disabilities.


(vii) No more than four hunters or individuals may use a blind at one time.


(viii) You must conduct all hunting from within the hunting blind.


(ix) All hunters must have a visible means of retrieving waterfowl such as a float tube, waders, or a dog capable of retrieving.


(x) We prohibit falconry hunting.


(xi) We allow the use of a portable ground blind within the immediate mowed area around field blind #13.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow archery hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit wildlife observation, scouting, and loitering at access points and parking areas.


(ii) Hunters may only enter the hunt area 2 hours prior to legal hunting hours and must exit no later than 2 hours after legal hunting hours.


(iii) We allow archery hunting in the waterfowl hunting area in September, except during the youth waterfowl hunt weekend. We will allow archery hunting on Mondays and Thursdays in the waterfowl hunting area during waterfowl hunting season.


(iv) We allow the use of portable tree stands or ground blinds. You must attach a tag displaying the owner's automated licensing system (ALS) number to each tree stand and/or ground blind you place on the refuge.


(v) Hunters may not enter or retrieve deer from closed areas of the refuge without the consent of an authorized official.


(vi) Hunters with a documented mobility disability may access designated locations in the hunting area to hunt from ground blinds. To access these areas, hunters must contact the refuge manager in advance to obtain a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(vii) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(o) *Lost Trail National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) [Reserved]


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey and mountain grouse on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow use of riding or pack stock on designated access routes through the refuge to access off-refuge lands as identified in the public use leaflet.


(ii) We prohibit retrieval of game in areas closed to hunting without a refuge retrieval permit.


(iii) We allow portable or temporary blinds and tree stands.


(iv) You may only use or possess nontoxic shot shells while in the field (see § 32.2(k)).


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, white-tailed deer, and mule deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (o)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) Persons assisting disabled hunters must not be afield with a hunting firearm, bow, or other hunting device.


(4) [Reserved]




(p) *Medicine Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of coot, duck, goose, sandhill crane, tundra swan, snipe, and dove on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant, partridge, sharp-tailed grouse, coyote, red fox, and white-tailed jackrabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow hunting of coyote, red fox, and white-tailed jackrabbit during daylight hours from November 15 through March 31.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and antelope on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(q) *Ninepipe National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge as governed by joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of lead or lead-based tackle.


(r) *Northeast Montana Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the district subject to the following condition: You must remove boats, decoys, portable blinds, other personal property, and any materials brought onto the area for blind construction at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the district.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the district subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunters to leave portable tree stands and freestanding elevated platforms on waterfowl production areas (WPAs) from August 25 through February 15.


(ii) You must label portable tree stands and freestanding elevated platforms with your automated licensing system (ALS) number so that the number is legible from the ground.


(4) [Reserved]


(s) *Northwest Montana Wetland Management District*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting on designated areas of the district as governed by State law (Flathead County waterfowl production areas (WPAs)) and joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe (Lake County WPAs), subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must remove all boats, decoys, portable blinds (including those made of native materials), boat blinds, and all other personal property at the end of each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow the use of hunting dogs when hunting.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the district as governed by State law (Flathead County WPAs) and joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe (Lake County WPAs), subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit hunting with a shotgun capable of holding more than three shells.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting on designated areas of the district as follows:


(i) We allow big game hunting on Flathead County WPAs as governed by State law and subject to the following conditions:


(A) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (t)(1)(i) and (t)(2)(i) of this section apply.


(B) We restrict hunting on Flathead, Blasdel, and Batavia WPAs to hunting with archery equipment, shotgun, traditional handgun, muzzleloader, or crossbow only.


(ii) We allow big game hunting on Lake County WPAs as governed by joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on all WPAs throughout the district as governed by State law (Flathead County WPAs) and joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe (Lake County WPAs).


(t) *Pablo National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge as governed by joint State and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for non-members and Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribal regulations for members of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of lead or lead-based lures or sinkers.


(u) *Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must remove all blinds, decoys, shell casings, and other personal equipment from the refuge each day (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(ii) We prohibit the use of motorized decoys.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, elk, moose, and pronghorn antelope on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We limit the number of hunters per day during the general big game season for the area north of South Valley Road, south of Red Rock River Mash, and west of Upper Red Rock Lake to the west refuge boundary. We close this area to hunting by other big game hunters during the general big game season. We select the hunters per day by annual lottery.


(ii) You may hire outfitters or ranchers for the retrieval of big game only.


(iii) We prohibit use of wheeled game carts or other mechanical transportation devices for game retrieval on portions of the refuge designated as Wilderness Area.


(iv) We prohibit horses north of South Valley Road except for the retrieval of big game. We only allow horses for back-country access to the Centennial Mountains south of South Valley Road. We require the use of certified weed-free hay or pellets in refuge parking lots and on refuge roads or trails.


(v) We prohibit hunting and/or shooting from or onto refuge lands from within 50 yards (45 meters) of the centerline of any public road open to motorized vehicles.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may only use pole and line or rod and reel to fish on the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit the use of felt-soled wading boots on all refuge waters.


(iii) We prohibit the use or possession of lead sinkers or any lead fishing product while fishing.






(v) *Swan River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow the use of dogs while hunting migratory birds.

 

(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow archery hunting of bear, elk, white-tailed deer, and mule deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of portable blinds and stands.


(ii) We limit each hunter to one stand or blind. The hunter must have their automated licensing system (ALS) number visibly marked on the stand or blind.


(iii) You may install portable stands and blinds no sooner than August 1, and you must remove them by December 15 of each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit hunting of black bear during the State spring season.




(v) We prohibit hunting bear with dogs.






(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(w) *UL Bend National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds and coyote on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow coyote hunting from the first day of antelope rifle season through March 1 annually.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of elk, pronghorn, white-tailed deer, mule deer, and mountain lion on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of portable blinds and stands.


(ii) We limit each hunter to three stands or blinds. The hunter must have their automated licensing system (ALS) number visibly marked on the stand(s) or blind(s).


(iii) You may install portable stands and blinds no sooner than August 1, and you must remove them by December 15 of each year (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iv) Mountain lion hunting will follow State-established dates for the archery-only and fall seasons.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.


(x) *War Horse National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game birds on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge. 



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54124, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48871, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57130, Sept. 16, 2022; 89 FR 88167, Nov. 7, 2024]




