# § 430.30   Grants procedures.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) Once CMS has approved a State plan, it makes quarterly grant awards to the State to cover the Federal share of expenditures for services, training, and administration.


(2) The amount of the quarterly grant is determined on the basis of information submitted by the State agency (in quarterly estimate and quarterly expenditure reports) and other pertinent documents.


(b) *Quarterly estimates.* The Medicaid agency must submit Form CMS-37 (Medicaid Program Budget Report; Quarterly Distribution of Funding Requirements) to the central office (with a copy to the regional office) 45 days before the beginning of each quarter.


(c) *Expenditure reports.* (1) The State must submit Form CMS-64 (Quarterly Medicaid Statement of Expenditures for the Medical Assistance Program) to the central office (with a copy to the regional office) not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter.


(2) This report is the State's accounting of actual recorded expenditures. The disposition of Federal funds may not be reported on the basis of estimates.


(d) *Grant award*—(1) *Computation by CMS.* Regional office staff analyzes the State's estimates and sends a recommendation to the central office. Central office staff considers the State's estimates, the regional office recommendations and any other relevant information, including any adjustments to be made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and computes the grant.


(2) *Content of award.* The grant award computation form shows the estimate of expenditures for the ensuring quarter, and the amounts by which that estimate is increased or decreased because of an underestimate or overestimate for prior quarters, or for any of the following reasons:


(i) Penalty reductions imposed by law.


(ii) Accounting adjustments.


(iii) Deferrals or disallowances.


(iv) Interest assessments.


(v) Mandated adjustments such as those required by section 1914 of the Act.


(3) *Effect of award.* The grant award authorizes the State to draw Federal funds as needed to pay the Federal share of disbursements.


(4) *Drawing procedure.* The draw is through a commercial bank and the Federal Reserve system against a continuing letter of credit certified to the Secretary of the Treasury in favor of the State payee. (The letter of credit payment system was established in accordance with Treasury Department regulations—Circular No. 1075.)


(e) *General administrative requirements.* With the following exceptions, the provisions of 45 CFR 75, which establish uniform administrative requirements and cost principles, apply to all grants made to States under this subpart:


(1) Cost sharing or matching, 45 CFR 75.306; and


(2) Financial reporting, 45 CFR 75.341. 



---

[N] [53 FR 36571, Sept. 21, 1988, as amended at 77 FR 31507, May 29, 2012; 81 FR 3011, Jan. 20, 2016]




