# § 534.402   Definitions.

In this subpart—


*Agency* means an executive agency or military department, as defined by 5 U.S.C. 105 and 102.


*Authorized agency official* means the head of an agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned. The agency's Inspector General is the *authorized agency official* for senior executive positions in the Office of the Inspector General, consistent with the requirements in section 3(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978.


*Outstanding performance* means performance that substantially exceeds the normally high performance expected of any senior executive, as evidenced by exceptional accomplishments or contributions to the agency's performance.


*Performance expectations* means the critical and other performance elements and performance requirements that constitute the senior executive performance plans (as defined in § 430.303).


*PRB* means Performance Review Board, as described in § 430.310.


*Rate of basic pay* means the rate of pay fixed by law or administrative action for the senior executive, within the established SES rate range or, in the case of a senior executive entitled to pay retention, the employee's retained rate of pay, excluding any applicable locality-based comparability payments under 5 U.S.C. 5304, but before any deductions and exclusive of additional pay of any other kind.


*Relative performance* means the performance of a senior executive with respect to the performance of other senior executives, including their contribution to agency performance, where appropriate, as determined by the application of a certified performance appraisal system under 5 CFR part 430, subpart D.


*Senior executive* means a member of the Senior Executive Service (SES) paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383.


*SES rate* means a rate of basic pay within the SES rate range assigned to a member of the SES under § 534.403(a).


*SES rate range* means the range of rates of basic pay established for the SES under 5 U.S.C. 5382 and § 534.403(a).



---

[N] [69 FR 70362, Dec. 6, 2004]




