# § 1926.957   Live-line tools.

(a) *Design of tools.* Live-line tool rods, tubes, and poles shall be designed and constructed to withstand the following minimum tests:


(1) *Fiberglass-reinforced plastic.* If the tool is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic (FRP), it shall withstand 328,100 volts per meter (100,000 volts per foot) of length for 5 minutes, or


(2) *Wood.* If the tool is made of wood, it shall withstand 246,100 volts per meter (75,000 volts per foot) of length for 3 minutes, or


(3) *Equivalent tests.* The tool shall withstand other tests that the employer can demonstrate are equivalent.


(b) *Condition of tools*—(1) *Daily inspection.* Each live-line tool shall be wiped clean and visually inspected for defects before use each day.


(2) *Defects.* If any defect or contamination that could adversely affect the insulating qualities or mechanical integrity of the live-line tool is present after wiping, the tool shall be removed from service and examined and tested according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section before being returned to service.


(3) *Biennial inspection and testing.* Live-line tools used for primary employee protection shall be removed from service every 2 years, and whenever required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for examination, cleaning, repair, and testing as follows:


(i) Each tool shall be thoroughly examined for defects.


(ii) If a defect or contamination that could adversely affect the insulating qualities or mechanical integrity of the live-line tool is found, the tool shall be repaired and refinished or shall be permanently removed from service. If no such defect or contamination is found, the tool shall be cleaned and waxed.


(iii) The tool shall be tested in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (b)(3)(v) of this section under the following conditions:


(A) After the tool has been repaired or refinished; and


(B) After the examination if repair or refinishing is not performed, unless the tool is made of FRP rod or foam-filled FRP tube and the employer can demonstrate that the tool has no defects that could cause it to fail during use.


(iv) The test method used shall be designed to verify the tool's integrity along its entire working length and, if the tool is made of fiberglass-reinforced plastic, its integrity under wet conditions.


(v) The voltage applied during the tests shall be as follows:


(A) 246,100 volts per meter (75,000 volts per foot) of length for 1 minute if the tool is made of fiberglass, or


(B) 164,000 volts per meter (50,000 volts per foot) of length for 1 minute if the tool is made of wood, or


(C) Other tests that the employer can demonstrate are equivalent.


