# § 3560.73   Subsequent loans.

(a) *Applicability.* The Agency may make a subsequent loan to a borrower to complete, improve, repair, or make modifications to MFH initially financed by the Agency or for equity for preservation purposes. Loan requests to add units to comply with accessibility requirements may be processed as a subsequent loan; however, loan requests to add units to meet market demand will be processed as an initial loan request and must compete under the NOFA.


(b) *Application requirements and processing.* Upon receipt of a subsequent loan request, the Agency will inform the applicant what information is required based on the nature and purpose of the loan request. Subsequent loan requests do not have to compete for funding against initial loan proposals.


(c) *Amortization and payment period.* Subsequent loans will be amortized over a period not to exceed the lesser of the economic life of the housing being financed or 50 years and paid over a term not to exceed the lesser of the economic life of the housing or 30 years from the date of the loan.


(d) *Equity contribution.* Applicants for subsequent loans must make contributions on the loans in the same proportion as outlined in § 3560.63(c). Loan applicants will not be given consideration for any increased equity value that the property may have since the initial loan.


(1) Excess initial investment on an initial loan may be credited toward the required investment on a subsequent loan.


(2) An initial operating capital contribution to the general operating account as described in § 3560.64 is required for a subsequent loan approved under the conditions set in § 3560.63(f) to complete housing construction but is not required for a subsequent loan to repair or improve existing housing.


(e) *Environmental review requirements.* Actions taken under this part must comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(f) *Design requirements.* All improvements, repairs, and modifications will be in accordance with 7 CFR part 1924, subparts A and C.


(g) *Architectural services.* The applicant must obtain architectural services when any of the following conditions exist:


(1) Enclosed space is being added,


(2) When required by state law, and


(3) When the Agency determines that the work being proposed requires architectural services.


(h) *Restrictive-use requirements.* Subsequent loans are subject to restrictive-use provisions as outlined in § 3560.662(a) and borrowers must execute a restrictive-use contract in accordance with § 3560.72(a)(2).


(i) *Designation changes from rural to nonrural.* If the designation of an area changes from rural to nonrural after the initial loan is made, a subsequent loan may be made only to make necessary improvements and repairs to the property or for equity when needed to avert prepayment.


(j) *Agency's discretion.* The Administrator may approve a subsequent loan in a place that is not on the list of designated places as a servicing action, for example, to replace units destroyed by a natural disaster. 



---

[N] [69 FR 69106, Nov. 26, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 11049, Mar. 2, 2016]




