# § 24.17   Reimbursable services of CBP employees.

(a) Amounts of compensation and expenses chargeable to parties-in-interest in connection with services rendered by CBP employees during regular hours of duty or on Customs overtime assignments (19 U.S.C. 267, 1451), under one or more of the following circumstances shall be collected from such parties-in-interest and deposited by port directors as repayments to the appropriation from which paid.


(1) When a CBP employee is assigned on board a vessel or vehicle under authority of section 457, Tariff Act of 1930, to protect the revenue, the owner or master of such vessel or vehicle shall be charged the full compensation and authorized travel and subsistence expenses of such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns thereto.


(2) When a CBP employee is assigned on board a vessel under authority of section 458, Tariff Act of 1930, to supervise the unlading of such vessel, the master or owner of such vessel shall be charged the full compensation of such employee for every day consumed in unlading after the expiration of 25 days after the date of the vessel's entry.


(3) When a CBP employee is assigned under authority of section 304, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, to supervise the exportation, destruction, or marking to exempt articles from the duty provided for in such section, the importer of such merchandise shall be charged the full compensation and authorized travel and subsistence expenses of such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns thereto.


(4) When a CBP employee is assigned pursuant to § 101.4 of this chapter to a Customs station or other place which is not a port of entry for service in connection with the entry or clearance of a vessel, the owner, master, or agent of the vessel shall be charged the full compensation and authorized travel and subsistence expenses of such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns. When a CBP employee is so assigned to render service in connection with the entry or delivery of merchandise only, the private interest shall be charged only for the authorized travel and subsistence expenses incurred by such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns thereto except that no collection need be made if the total amount chargeable against one importer for one day amounts to less than 50 cents (see § 101.4(b) of this chapter). Where the amount chargeable is 50 cents or more, but less than $1, a minimum charge of $1 shall be made.


(5) When a CBP employee is assigned under authority of section 447, Tariff Act of 1930, to make entry of a vessel at a place other than a port of entry or to supervise the unlading of cargo, the private interest shall be charged the full compensation and authorized travel and subsistence expenses of such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns thereto.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) When a CBP employee is assigned on any vessel or vehicle, under authority of section 456, Tariff Act of 1930, while proceeding from one port to another, the master or owner of such vessel or vehicle shall be charged the full compensation and authorized travel and subsistence expenses of such employee from the time he leaves his official station until he returns thereto, or, in lieu of such expenses, the master or owner may furnish such employee the accommodations usually supplied to passengers.


(8) When a CBP employee is assigned under authority of section 562, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, to supervise the manipulation of merchandise at a place other than a bonded warehouse, the compensation and expenses of such employee shall be reimbursed to the Government by the party in interest. A Customs officer so assigned is not acting as a customs warehouse officer, since the services have no connection with a customs bonded warehouse.


(9) When a CBP employee is assigned to supervise the destruction of merchandise pursuant to section 557(c), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, at a place where a CBP employee is not regularly assigned, the full compensation and expenses of such employee shall be reimbursed to the Government by the party in interest.


(10) When a CBP employee is assigned to supervise the labeling of imported merchandise in accordance with the provisions of §§ 11.12(b), 11.12a(b), 11.12b(b) of the regulations of this chapter or the removal or obliteration of prohibited markings and trade marks from merchandise which has been detained or seized in accordance with the provisions of §§ 11.13(c) and 11.17(b) of the regulations of this chapter or to supervise the exportation or destruction of any such merchandise, the compensation and expenses of such CBP employee shall be reimbursed to the Government by the party in interest.


(11) When a CBP employee is assigned to supervise examination, sampling, weighing, repacking, segregation, or other operation on merchandise in accordance with §§ 151.4, 151.5, 158.11, 158.14, and 158.42 of this chapter, the compensation and other expenses of such employee shall be reimbursed to the Government by the party-in-interest except when a warehouse proprietor is liable therefor.


(12) When a CBP employee is assigned to provide Customs services at an airport or other facility under 19 U.S.C. 58b, the facility shall reimburse to the Government an amount equal to the salary and expenses of such employee (including overtime) plus any other expenses incurred in providing those Customs services at the facility.


(b) When a CBP employee is assigned to render services the nature of which is such that the private interest is required to reimburse the Government for his compensation and on the same assignment performs services for which compensation is not reimbursable, a charge shall be made to the private interest for the full compensation of the CBP employee unless the time devoted to each class of service can be clearly segregated.


(c) The charge for any service enumerated in this section for which expenses are required to be reimbursed shall include actual transportation expenses of a CBP employee within the port limits and any authorized travel expenses of a CBP employee, including per diem, when the services are performed outside the port limits irrespective of whether the services are performed during a regular tour of duty or during a Customs overtime assignment. No charge shall be made for transportation expenses when a CBP employee is reporting to as a first daily assignment, or leaving from as a last daily assignment, a place within or outside the port limits where he is assigned to a regular tour of duty. No charge shall be made for transportation expenses within the port limits or travel expenses, including per diem, outside the port limits in connection with a Customs overtime assignment for which reimbursement of expenses is not covered by this section.


(d) *Computation charge for reimbursable services.* The charge to be made for the services of a CBP employee on a regular workday during his basic 40-hour workweek shall be computed at a rate per hour equal to 137 percent of the hourly rate of regular pay of the particular employee with an addition equal to any night pay differential actually payable under 5 U.S.C. 5545. The rate per hour equal to 137 percent of the hourly rate of regular pay is computed as follows:


(1) The charge to be made for the reimbursable services of a CBP employee to perform on a holiday or outside the established basic workweek shall be the amount actually payable to the employee for such services under the Federal Employees Pay Act of 1945, as amended (5 U.S.C. 5542(a), 5546), or the Customs overtime laws (19 U.S.C. 267, 1451), or both, as the case may be. When such services are performed by an intermittent when-actually-employed employee, the charge for such services shall be computed at a rate per hour equal to 108 percent of the hourly rate of the regular pay of such employee to provide for reimbursement of the Government's contribution under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, as amended (25 U.S.C. 3101, *et seq.),* and employee uniform allowance. The time charged shall include any time within the regular working hours of the employee required for travel between the duty assignment and the place where the employee is regularly employed excluding lunch periods, charged in multiples of 1 hour, any fractional part of an hour to be charged as 1 hour when the services are performed during the regularly scheduled tour of duty of the officer or between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays when the officer has no regularly scheduled tour of duty. In no case shall the charge be less than $1.


(2) The necessary transportation expenses and any authorized per diem expenses of a CBP employee assigned to perform reimbursable services at a location at which he is not regularly assigned shall be reimbursed by the responsible party.


(3) When a CBP employee is regularly assigned to duty at more than one location, the charge for his compensation and transportation expenses in going from one location to another shall be equitably apportioned among the parties concerned. However, no charge shall be made for transportation expenses when a CBP employee is reporting to as a first assignment, or leaving from as a last assignment, a place where he is regularly assigned to duty.


(4) Upon a failure to pay such charges when due, or to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, the port director shall report the facts to the Accounting Services—Accounts Receivable, which shall take appropriate action to collect the charges.


(e) The reimbursable charge for customs overtime compensation shall be computed in accordance with § 24.16.


(f) *Medicare compensation costs.* In addition to other expenses and compensation chargeable to parties-in-interest as set forth in this section, such persons shall also be required to reimburse Customs in the amount of 1.35 percent of the reimbursable compensation expenses incurred. Such payment will reimburse Customs for its share of Medicare costs.



---

[N] [28 FR 14808, Dec. 31, 1963]


