# § 868.302   Definition of other terms.

For the purposes of these standards, the following terms shall have the meanings stated below:


(a) *Broken kernels.* Kernels of rice which are less than three-fourths of whole kernels.


(b) *Brown rice.* Whole or broken kernels of rice from which the hulls have been removed.


(c) *Chalky kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are one-half or more chalky.


(d) *Classes.* There are seven classes of milled rice. The following four classes shall be based on the percentage of whole kernels, and types of rice:


(1) “Long grain milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of medium or short grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 long grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of medium or short grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).


(2) “Medium grain milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long grain rice or whole kernels of short grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 medium grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of long or short grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).


(3) “Short grain milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and in U.S. Nos. 1 through 4 not more than 10.0 percent of whole or broken kernels of long grain rice or whole kernels of medium grain rice. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 short grain milled rice shall contain not more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of long or medium grain milled rice (broken kernels do not apply).


(4) “Mixed milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which contains more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels of milled rice and more than 10.0 percent of “other types” as defined in paragraph (i) of this section. U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 mixed milled rice shall contain more than 10.0 percent of whole kernels of “other types” (broken kernels do not apply).


(5) “Second head milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which, when determined in accordance with § 868.303, contains:


(i) Not more than (*a*) 25.0 percent of whole kernels, (*b*) 7.0 percent of broken kernels removed by a 6 plate, (*c*) 0.4 percent of broken kernels removed by a 5 plate, and (*d*) 0.05 percent of broken kernels passing through a 4 sieve (southern production); or


(ii) Not more than (*a*) 25.0 percent of whole kernels, (*b*) 50.0 percent of broken kernels passing through a 6
1/2 sieve, and (*c*) 10.0 percent of broken kernels passing through a 6 sieve (western production).


(6) “Screenings milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which, when determined in accordance with § 868.303, contains:


(i) Not more than (*a*) 25.0 percent of whole kernels, (*b*) 10.0 percent of broken kernels removed by a 5 plate, and (*c*) 0.2 percent of broken kernels passing through a 4 sieve (southern production); or


(ii) Not more than (*a*) 25.0 percent of whole kernels and (*b*) 15.0 percent of broken kernels passing through a 5
1/2 sieve; and more than (*c*) 50.0 percent of broken kernels passing through a 6
1/2 sieve and (*d*) 10.0 percent of broken kernels passing through a 6 sieve (western production).


(7) “Brewers milled rice” shall consist of milled rice which, when determined in accordance with § 868.303, contains not more than 25.0 percent of whole kernels and which does not meet the kernel-size requirements for the class Second Head Milled Rice or Screenings Milled Rice.


(e) *Damaged kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are distinctly discolored or damaged by water, insects, heat, or any other means, and parboiled kernels in nonparboiled rice. “Heat-damaged kernels” (see paragraph (g) of this section) shall not function as damaged kernels.


(f) *Foreign material.* All matter other than rice and seeds. Hulls, germs, and bran which have separated from the kernels of rice shall be considered foreign material.


(g) *Heat-damaged kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice which are materially discolored and damaged as a result of heating and parboiled kernels in nonparboiled rice which are as dark as, or darker in color than, the interpretive line for heat-damaged kernels.


(h) *Objectionable seeds.* Seeds other than rice, except seeds of *Echinochloa crusgalli* (commonly known as barnyard grass, watergrass, and Japanese millet).


(i) *Other types.* (1) Whole kernels of: (i) Long grain rice in medium or short grain rice, (ii) medium grain rice in long or short grain rice, (iii) Short grain rice in long or medium grain rice, and (2) broken kernels of long grain rice in medium or short grain rice and broken kernels of medium or short grain rice in long grain rice, except in U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 milled rice. In U.S. No. 5 and U.S. No. 6 milled rice, only whole kernels will apply.


(j) *Paddy Kernels.* Whole or broken unhulled kernels of rice; whole or broken kernels of brown rice, and whole or broken kernels of milled rice having a portion or portions of the hull remaining which cover one-eighth (
1/8) or more of the whole or broken kernel.


(k) *Red rice.* Whole or broken kernels of rice on which there is an appreciable amount of red bran.


(l) *Seeds.* Whole or broken seeds of any plant other than rice.


(m) *Types of rice.* There are three types of milled rice as follows:


(n) *Ungelatinized kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of parboiled rice with distinct white or chalky areas due to incomplete gelatinization of the starch.


(o) *Well-milled kernels.* Whole or broken kernels of rice from which the hulls and practically all of the germs and the bran layers have been removed.


(p) *Whole kernels.* Unbroken kernels of rice and broken kernels of rice which are at least three-fourths of an unbroken kernel.


(q) *5 plate.* A laminated metal plate 0.142-inch thick, with a top lamina, 0.051-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0781 (
5/64) inch in diameter, 
5/32 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows, and a bottom lamina 0.091-inch thick, without perforations.


(r) *6 plate.* A laminated metal plate 0.142-inch thick, with a top lamina 0.051-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0938 (
6/64) inch in diameter, 
5/32 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows, and a bottom lamina 0.091-inch thick, without perforations.


(s) *2
* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0391 (2
1/2/64) inch in diameter, 0.075-inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(t) *4 sieve.* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0625 (
4/64) inch in diameter, 
1/8 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(u) *5 sieve.* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0781 (
5/64) inch in diameter, 
5/32 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(v) *5
* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0859 (5
1/2/64) inch in diameter, 
9/64 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(w) *6 sieve.* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.0938 (
6/64) inch in diameter, 
5/32 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(x) *6
* A metal sieve 0.032-inch thick, perforated with rows of round holes 0.1016 (6
1/2/64) inch in diameter, 
5/32 inch from center to center, with each row staggered in relation to the adjacent rows.


(y) *30 sieve.* A woven wire cloth sieve having 0.0234-inch openings, with a wire diameter of 0.0153 inch, and meeting the specifications of American Society for Testing and Materials Designation E-11-61, prescribed in FGIS instructions.



---

[N] [13 FR 9479, Dec. 31, 1948, as amended at 44 FR 73008, Dec. 17, 1979; 47 FR 34516, Aug. 10, 1982; 54 FR 21403, 21406, May 18, 1989; 54 FR 51345, Dec. 14, 1989. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 16364, Mar. 30, 1995]




