# § 25.58   New and superseding formulas.

(a) *New formulas.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you must file a new formula (with a new formula number) for approval by TTB if you—


(1) Create an entirely new fermented product that requires a formula;


(2) Add new ingredients to an existing formulation;


(3) Delete ingredients from an existing formulation;


(4) Change the quantity of an ingredient used from the quantity or range of usage in an approved formula;


(5) Change an approved processing, filtration, or other special method of manufacture that requires the filing of a formula; or


(6) Change the contribution of alcohol from flavors or ingredients that contain alcohol.


(b) *Superseding formulas.* You may file a superseding formula, instead of a new formula, if you have made any change listed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section and that change is not of a type that would require a holder of a certificate of label approval to file a new application for label approval on TTB Form 5100.31.


(1) A superseding formula replaces an existing formula, and you should file one only if you do not intend to use the existing formula any more. A superseding formula must be filed with TTB for approval. When TTB approves a superseding formula, TTB will cancel your previous formula.


(2) You may use the same formula number for a superseding formula that you used for the formula the superseding formula replaces, but you must annotate the formula number to indicate it is a superseding formula number. (For example, “Formula 2, superseding.”)


(c) When you file a new or superseding formula with TTB, you must follow the procedures and other requirements of §§ 25.56 and 25.57.




