# ยง 206.440   Appeals.

An eligible applicant, subrecipient, or recipient may appeal any determination previously made related to an application for or the provision of Federal assistance according to the procedures in this section.


(a) *Format and content.* The applicant or recipient will make the appeal in writing through the recipient to the Regional Administrator. The recipient-will review and evaluate all subrecipient appeals before submission to the Regional Administrator. The recipient may make recipient-related appeals to the Regional Administrator. The appeal must contain documented justification supporting the appellant's position, specifying the monetary figure in dispute and the provisions in Federal law, regulation, or policy with which the appellant believes the initial action was inconsistent.


(b) *Levels of appeal.* (1) The Regional Administrator will consider first appeals for hazard mitigation grant program-related decisions under subparts M and N of this part.


(2) The Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate will consider appeals of the Regional Administrator's decision on any first appeal under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Time limits.* (1) Appellants must make appeals within 60 days after receipt of a notice of the action that is being appealed.


(2) The recipient will review and forward appeals from an applicant or subrecipient, with a written recommendation, to the Regional Administrator within 60 days of receipt.


(3) Within 90 days following receipt of an appeal, the Regional Administrator (for first appeals) or Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate (for second appeals) will notify the recipient in writing of the disposition of the appeal or of the need for additional information. A request by the Regional Administrator or Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate for additional information will include a date by which the information must be provided. Within 90 days following the receipt of the requested additional information or following expiration of the period for providing the information, the Regional Administrator or Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate will notify the recipient in writing of the disposition of the appeal. If the decision is to grant the appeal, the Regional Administrator will take appropriate implementing action.


(d) *Technical advice.* In appeals involving highly technical issues, the Regional Administrator or Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate may, at his or her discretion, submit the appeal to an independent scientific or technical person or group having expertise in the subject matter of the appeal for advice or recommendation. The period for this technical review may be in addition to other allotted time periods. Within 90 days of receipt of the report, the Regional Administrator or Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate will notify the recipient in writing of the disposition of the appeal.


(e) *Transition.* (1) This rule is effective for all appeals pending on and appeals from decisions issued on or after May 8, 1998, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) Appeals pending from a decision of an Assistant Administrator for the Mitigation Directorate before May 8, 1998 may be appealed to the Administrator in accordance with 44 CFR 206.440 as it existed before May 8, 1998.


(3) The decision of the FEMA official at the next higher appeal level will be the final administrative decision of FEMA.



---

[N] [63 FR 17111, Apr. 8, 1998, as amended at 86 FR 50679, Sept. 10, 2021]




