# ยง 156.200   Scope and applicability.

(a) *Scope.* (1) This subpart prescribes statements that must be placed on the pesticide label and in pesticide labeling. These statements incorporate by reference the Worker Protection Standard, part 170 of this chapter. The requirements addressed in these statements are designed to reduce the risk of illness or injury resulting from workers' and pesticide handlers' occupational exposures to pesticides used in the production of agricultural plants on agricultural establishments as defined in ยง 170.3 of this chapter. These statements refer to specific workplace practices designed to reduce or eliminate exposure and to respond to emergencies that may arise from the exposures that may occur.


(2) This subpart prescribes interim requirements that must be placed on the pesticide label and in pesticide labeling. These interim requirements pertain to restricted-entry intervals, personal protective equipment, and notification. On a case-by-case basis, these interim requirements will be reviewed and may be revised during reregistration or other agency review processes.


(b) *Applicability.* (1) The requirements of this subpart apply to each pesticide product that bears directions for use in the production of any agricultural plant on any agricultural establishment as defined in ยง 170.3 of this chapter, or whose labeling reasonably permits such use.


(2) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to a product that bears directions solely for uses excepted by ยง 170.202(b) of this chapter.


(c) *Effective dates.* No product to which this subpart applies shall be distributed or sold without amended labeling by any registrant after April 21, 1994, or by any person after October 23, 1995.



---

[N] [57 FR 38146, Aug. 21, 1992, as amended at 73 FR 75596, Dec. 12, 2008]




