# § 30.10   Q-10: What actions are necessary for a TARP recipient to comply with section 111(b)(3)(D) of EESA (the limitations on bonus payments)?

(a) *General rule.* To comply with section 111(b)(3)(D) of EESA, pursuant to the schedule under paragraph (b) of this section and subject to the exclusions under paragraph (e) of this section, a TARP recipient must prohibit the payment or accrual of any bonus payment during the TARP period to or by the employees identified pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.


(b)(1) *Schedule.* The prohibition required under paragraph (a) of this section applies as follows to:


(i) The most highly compensated employee of any TARP recipient receiving less than $25,000,000 in financial assistance;


(ii) At least the five most highly compensated employees of any TARP recipient receiving $25,000,000 but less than $250,000,000 in financial assistance;


(iii) The SEOs and at least the ten next most highly compensated employees of any TARP recipient receiving $250,000,000 but less than $500,000,000 in financial assistance; and


(iv) The SEOs and at least the twenty next most highly compensated employees of any TARP recipient receiving $500,000,000 or more in financial assistance.


(2) *Changes in level of financial assistance.* The determination of which schedule in paragraph (b) of this section is applicable to a TARP recipient during the TARP period is determined by the gross amount of all financial assistance provided to the TARP recipient, valued at the time the financial assistance was received. Whether a TARP recipient's financial assistance has increased during a fiscal year to the point in the schedule under paragraph (b) of this section that the SEOs or a greater number of the most highly compensated employees will be subject to the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section is determined as of the last day of the TARP recipient's fiscal year, and the increase in coverage is effective for the subsequent fiscal year.


(3) *Application to first year of financial assistance.* For employers who become TARP recipients after June 15, 2009, the bonus payment limitation provision under this paragraph (b) does not apply to bonus payments paid or accrued by TARP recipients or their employees before the first date of the TARP period. Certain bonus payments may relate to a service period beginning before and ending after the first date of the TARP period. In these circumstances, the employee will not be treated as having accrued the bonus payment on or after the first date of the TARP period if the bonus payment is reduced to reflect at least the portion of the service period that occurs on or after the first date of the TARP period. However, if the employee is a SEO or most highly compensated employee at the time the amount would otherwise be paid, the bonus payment amount as reduced in accordance with the previous sentence still may not be paid until such time as bonus payments to that employee are permitted.


(c) *Accrual*—(1) *General rule.* Whether an employee has accrued a bonus payment is determined based on the facts and circumstances. An accrual may include the granting of service credit (whether toward the calculation of the benefit or any vesting requirement) or credit for the compensation received (or that otherwise would have been received) during the period the employee was subject to the restriction under paragraph (a) of this section. For application of this rule to the fiscal year including June 15, 2009, *see* § 30.17 (Q-17).


(2) *Payments or accruals after the employee is no longer a SEO or most highly compensated employee.* If after the employee is no longer a SEO or most highly compensated employee, the employee is paid a bonus payment or provided a legally binding right to a bonus payment that is based upon services performed or compensation received during the period the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee, the employee will be treated as having accrued such bonus payment during the period the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee. For example, if the employee is retroactively granted service credit under an incentive plan (whether for vesting or benefit calculation purposes) for the period in which the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee, the employee will be treated as having accrued that benefit during the period the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee.


(3) *Multi-year service periods.* Certain bonus payments may relate to a multi-year service period, during some portion of which the employee is a SEO or most highly compensated employee subject to paragraph (a) of this section, and during some portion of which the employee is not. In these circumstances, the employee will not be treated as having accrued the bonus payment during the period the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee if the bonus payment is at least reduced to reflect the portion of the service period that the employee was a SEO or most highly compensated employee. If the employee is a SEO or most highly compensated employee at the time the net bonus payment amount after such reduction would otherwise be paid, the amount still may not be paid until such time as bonus payments to that employee are permitted.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:


(e) *Exclusions*—(1) *Long-term restricted stock*—(i) *General rule.* The TARP recipient is permitted to award long-term restricted stock to the employees whose compensation is limited according to the schedule under paragraph (b) of this section, provided that the value of this grant may not exceed one third of the employee's annual compensation as determined for that fiscal year (that is, not using the look-back method for the prior year). For purposes of this paragraph, in determining an employee's annual compensation, all equity-based compensation granted in fiscal years ending after June 15, 2009 will only be included in the calculation in the year in which it is granted at its total fair market value on the grant date, and all equity-based compensation granted in fiscal years ending prior to June 15, 2009 will not be included in the calculation of annual compensation for any subsequent fiscal year. For purposes of this paragraph, in determining the value of the long-term restricted stock grant, the long-term restricted stock granted in accordance with this paragraph will only be included in the calculation in the year in which the restricted stock is granted at its total fair market value on the grant date.


(ii) *Example.* During 2008, Employee A receives compensation of $1 million salary and a $1,200,000 long-term restricted stock grant subject to a three-year vesting period. During 2009, Employee A received compensation of $1 million salary and no grant of long-term restricted stock. During 2010, Employee A receives compensation of $600,000 salary and a $300,000 long-term restricted stock grant subject to a three-year vesting period. Under the general SEC compensation disclosure rules used to define annual compensation in § 30.1 (Q-1) of this part, the compensation related to the long-term restricted stock grants would be allocated over the vesting period. Assume for this purpose, that for 2010, $400,000 of the 2008 long-term restricted stock grant is allocated as compensation, and $100,000 of the 2010 long-term restricted stock grant is allocated as compensation, so that the total annual compensation is $1,100,000 ($600,000 salary + $400,000 + $100,000). However, for purposes of determining Employee A's annual compensation to apply the limit on the value of the long-term restricted stock that may be granted to Employee A in 2010, the entire $300,000 value of the 2010 grant is included but the $400,000 value attributed to the 2008 grant is excluded. Accordingly, Employee A's adjusted annual compensation is $900,000 ($1,100,000 − $100,000 + $300,000 − $400,000). In addition, the entire fair market value of the 2010 long-term restricted stock grant is included for purposes of determining whether the limit has been exceeded. Because the $300,000 adjusted value of the long-term restricted stock grant does not exceed one-third of the $900,000 adjusted annual compensation, the grant complies with paragraph (e)(1)(i).


(2) *Legally binding right under valid employment contracts*—(i) *General rule.* The prohibition under paragraph (a) of this section does not apply to bonus payments required to be paid under a valid employment contract if the employee had a legally binding right under the contract to a bonus payment as of February 11, 2009. For purposes of determining whether an employee had a legally binding right to a bonus payment, *see* 26 CFR 1.409A-1(b)(i). In addition, the bonus payment must be made in accordance with the terms of the contract as of February 11, 2009 (which may include application of an elective deferral election under a qualified retirement plan or a nonqualified deferred compensation plan), such that any subsequent amendment to the contract to increase the amount payable, accelerate any vesting conditions, or otherwise materially enhance the benefit available to the employee under the contract will result in the bonus payment being treated as not made under the employment contract executed on or before February 11, 2009. However, amendment of a valid employment contract executed on or before February 11, 2009 under which an employee has a legally binding right to a bonus payment to reduce the amount of the bonus payment or to enhance or include service-based or performance-based vesting requirements or holding period requirements will not result in this treatment. The amended employment contract would still be deemed a valid employment contract and the employee would still be treated as having a legally binding right to the bonus payment under the original employment contract. The TARP recipient and the employees of the TARP recipient should be cognizant of the restrictions under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 409A) in the case of an amendment described in the preceding sentence.


(ii) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (2).


(f) *Application to private TARP recipients.* The rules set forth in this section are also applicable to TARP recipients that do not have securities registered with the SEC pursuant to the Federal securities laws.




