# § 208.39   Reimbursement for personnel costs incurred during Activation.

(a) *Compensation.* DHS will reimburse the Sponsoring Agency for costs incurred for the compensation of each Activated System Member during Activation. Reimbursement of compensation costs for Activated Support Specialists will be limited to periods of time during which they were actively supporting the Activation or traveling to or from locations at which they were actively supporting the Activation. The provisions of § 208.40 of this part govern costs incurred for providing fringe benefits to System Members.


(b) *Public Safety Exemption not applicable.* DHS will reimburse Sponsoring Agencies for costs incurred by Non-Exempt System Members in accordance with 29 U.S.C. 207(a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, without regard to the public safety exemption contained in 29 U.S.C. 207(k). In other words, DHS will reimburse Sponsoring Agencies on an overtime basis for any hours worked by Non-Exempt System Members greater than 40 hours during a regular workweek.


(c) *Tour of duty.* The tour of duty for all Activated System Members will be 24 hours. DHS will reimburse the Sponsoring Agency for salary and overtime costs incurred in compensating System Members for meal periods and regularly scheduled sleep periods during Activation. Activated System Members are considered “on-duty” and must be available for immediate response at all times during Activation.


(d) *Regular rate.* The regular rate for purposes of calculating allowable salary and overtime costs is the amount determined in accordance with § 208.39(e)(1) through (3) of this subpart.


(e) *Procedures for calculating compensation during Activation.* A Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency must:


(1) Convert the base hourly wage of any Non-Exempt System Member regularly paid under 29 U.S.C. 207(k) to its equivalent for a 40-hour work week;


(2) Convert the annual salary of any salaried Non-Exempt System Member to its hourly equivalent for a 40-hour workweek;


(3) Calculate the daily compensation of Exempt System Members based on their current annual salary, exclusive of fringe benefits;


(4) Calculate the total number of hours worked by each System Member to be included in the Sponsoring Agency's request for reimbursement; and


(5) Submit a request for reimbursement under § 208.52 of this part according to the following table:


(f) *Reimbursement of additional salary and overtime costs.* DHS will reimburse any identified additional salary and overtime cost incurred by a Sponsoring Agency as a result of the temporary conversion of a Non-Exempt System Member normally compensated under 29 U.S.C. 207(k) to a 40-hour work week under 29 U.S.C. 207(a).


(g) *Reimbursement for Backfill costs upon Activation.* DHS will reimburse the cost to Backfill System Members. Backfill costs consist of the expenses generated by filling the position in which the Activated System Member should have been working. These costs are calculated by subtracting the non-overtime compensation, including fringe benefits, of Activated System Members from the total costs (non-overtime and overtime compensation, including fringe benefits) paid to Backfill the Activated System Members. Backfill reimbursement is available only for those positions that are normally Backfilled by the Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency during Activation. Employees exempt under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) not normally Backfilled by the Sponsoring Agency or Participating Agency are not eligible for Backfill during Activation.




