# § 7.97   Golden Gate National Recreation Area.

(a) *Boat landings—Alcatraz Island.* Except in emergencies, the docking of any privately-owned vessel, as defined in § 1.4 of this chapter, or the landing of any person at Alcatraz Island without a permit or contract is prohibited. The Superintendent may issue a permit upon a determination that the applicant's needs cannot be provided by authorized commercial boat transportation to Alcatraz Island and that the proposed activities of the applicant are compatible with the preservation and protection of Alcatraz Island. 


(b) *Powerless flight.* The use of devices designed to carry persons through the air in powerless flight is allowed at times and locations designated by the superintendent, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a permit. 


(c) *Designated bicycle routes.* The use of a bicycle is permitted according to § 4.30 of this chapter and, in non-developed areas, as follows:


(1) Bicycle use is permitted on routes which have been designated by the Superintendent as bicycle routes by the posting of signs, and as designated on maps which are available in the office of the superintendent and other places convenient to the public.


(2) Bicycle speed limits are as follows:


(i) 15 miles per hour: Upon all designated routes in Golden Gate National Recreation Area.


(ii) 5 miles per hour: On blind curves and when passing other trail users.


(3) The following are prohibited:


(i) The possession of a bicycle on routes not designated as open to bicycle use.


(ii) Operating a bicycle on designated bicycle routes between sunset and sunrise without exhibiting on the bicycle or on the operator an activated white light that is visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red light or reflector visible from at least 200 feet to the rear.


(d) *Dogs—Crissy Field and Ocean Beach Snowy Plover Areas.* (1) Dogs must be restrained on a leash not more than six feet in length starting July 1 and ending May 15, in the following areas:


(i) Crissy Field Wildlife Protection Area (WPA): Dog walking restricted to on-leash only in the area encompassing the shoreline and beach north of the Crissy Field Promenade (excluding the paved parking area, sidewalks and grass lawn of the former Coast Guard Station complex) that stretches east from the Torpedo Wharf to approximately 700 feet east of the former Coast Guard station, and all tidelands and submerged lands to 100 yards offshore.


(ii) Ocean Beach Snowy Plover Protection Area (SPPA): Dog walking restricted to on-leash only in the area which encompasses the shoreline and beach area west of the GGNRA boundary, between Stairwell 21 to Sloat Boulevard, including all tidelands and submerged lands to 1,000 feet offshore.


(2) Notice of these annual restrictions will be provided through the posting of signs at the sites, on maps identifying the restricted areas on the park's official website and through maps made available at other places convenient to the public.



---

[N] [38 FR 32931, Nov. 29, 1973, as amended at 49 FR 18452, Apr. 30, 1984; 57 FR 58716, Dec. 11, 1992; 73 FR 54321, Sept. 19, 2008] 




