# ยง 4290.1600   Agency's authority to issue and guarantee Trust Certificates.

(a) *Authorization.* Section 384F of the Act authorizes the Agency to issue TCs and to guarantee the timely payment of the principal and interest thereon. Any such guarantee of such TC is limited to the principal and interest due on the Debentures in any Trust or Pool backing such TC. The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all amounts due under the guarantee of any TC.


(b) *Authority to arrange public or private fundings of Leverage.* The Agency in its discretion may arrange for public or private financing under its guarantee authority. Such financing may be accomplished by the sale of individual Debentures, aggregations of Debentures, or Pools or Trusts of Debentures.


(c) *Pass-through provisions.* TCs shall provide for a pass-through to their holders of all amounts of principal and interest paid on the Debentures in the Pool or Trust against which they are issued.


(d) *Formation of a Pool or Trust holding Leverage Securities.* The Agency shall approve the formation of each Pool or Trust. The Agency may, in its discretion, establish the size of the Pools and their composition, the interest rate on the TCs issued against Trusts or Pools, discounts, premiums and other charges made in connection with the Pools, Trusts, and TCs, and any other characteristics of a Pool or Trust it deems appropriate. Notwithstanding ยง 4290.1130(c), any agent of the Agency may collect a fee for the functions described in 7 U.S.C. 2009cc-5(e)(2) that does not exceed $500.



---

[N] [69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80224, Dec. 23, 2011]




