# ยง 102-83.95   How must agencies consult and engage with local officials and communities to comply with the consultation and engagement elements of part 102-83?

Agencies have wide latitude to develop their own internal policies for consulting and engaging in ways that are both effective and efficient based upon the intent of this part, the relevant development context and the agency's core business practices. Agencies must develop internal policies and procedures that guide consultation and engagement using different methods for actions of varying scale or scope. Location decisions to support fee simple acquisition and Federal construction in most cases will require direct consultation and engagement with local officials during the location evaluation process to meet the intent of this part. Conversely, for acquisition of existing space through a lease contract, agencies may develop internal procedures that apply the hierarchy outlined in this part such that no transaction-specific consultation or engagement with local officials would be required if the delineated area is within a recognized CBA or other area recommended by local officials. To expedite effective and efficient implementation of this part, where appropriate, agencies are encouraged to pursue consultation and engagement actively with local officials and communities, as appropriate, to discuss development goals well ahead of specific space actions.


(a) Under multiple guiding authorities, acquiring agencies must consult and engage with local officials to apply the principles outlined in this part properly. Consultation and engagement and consideration of local input must occur in urban areas, and agencies are encouraged to perform similar consultation and engagement in rural areas, as appropriate.


(b) Federal agencies should refer to their agency Tribal consultation policies and applicable legal requirements, and confer if needed with agency counsel, to determine whether consultation with Tribal governments, Alaska Native corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, or other entities is required, such as if the Federal location decision may include or affect Tribal trust or reserved lands, and natural resources, and if so conduct such consultation.


(c) Where communities are likely to face displacement risks associated with a Federal location decision, based on agency analysis of existing data and consultation and engagement with local officials, or where communities have been harmed historically by inequity, such as persistent poverty or underinvestment, or environmental injustice, agency engagement should occur not only with relevant regional and local officials but also with members of the affected communities.


(d) Meaningful engagement with local stakeholders outside of government or those who have been historically left out of community and economic development planning requires agencies to identify and include community members in federal location planning activities early enough in the process for them to have insight into and for their input to be reflected in the decision making process. This includes opportunities for significant participation through modes that reduce known barriers to participation, such as plain language use, translation, transportation, digital and non-digital access, culture, time of day, and availability of childcare and other supportive services.






