# § 203.350   Assignment of mortgage.

(a) *Assignment of modified mortgages pursuant to section 230, National Housing Act.* HUD may accept an assignment of any mortgage covering a one-to-four family residence if the following requirements are met: 


(1) The mortgage was in default; 


(2) The mortgagee has modified the mortgage under § 203.616 to cure the default and to provide for mortgage payments within the reasonable ability of the mortgagor to pay, at an interest rate not exceeding current market interest rates; and 


(3) Such other conditions that HUD may prescribe, which may include the requirement that the mortgagee continue to be responsible for servicing the mortgage. 


(b) *Assignments pursuant to section 248, National Housing Act.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), the Commissioner shall, upon application by the mortgagee, approve the assignment to the Commissioner of any mortgage insured pursuant to section 248 of the National Housing Act (see § 203.43h) where the mortgagor has been in default for more than 90 days. The mortgagee may not request the Commissioner to accept an assignment until the mortgagee has submitted documents to the Commissioner showing that the requirements of § 203.604 have been met. HUD shall then notify the mortgagee of its approval of the mortgagee's actions under § 203.604 and that the mortgagee may assign the mortgage to the Secretary, or HUD will specify what further action the mortgagee must take to meet the requirements of § 203.604.


(c) *Assignment of mortgages insured pursuant to section 247, National Housing Act.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will, upon application by the mortgagee, agree to accept an assignment of any mortgage insured pursuant to section 247 of the National Housing Act (§ 203.43i of this part) where the mortgagor has been in default for more than 180 days, provided that the requirements of § 203.665 are satisfied.


(d) *Assignment of mortgages authorized by section 203(q), National Housing Act.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary will, upon application by the mortgagee, agree to accept assignment of any mortgage authorized by section 203(q) of the National Housing Act (§ 203.43j of this part) if 


(1) The mortgagor has been in default for more than 90 days for failure to make a monthly payment, 


(2) The requirements of § 203.666 are satisfied, and 


(3) The date of default occurs before the mortgagor and the lessor execute a lease renewal or a new lease with a term of not less than five years beyond the maturity date of the mortgage, or with a term established by an arbitration award. 


(e) *Filing assignment for record.* Within 30 days of the Secretary's written agreement to accept assignment of a defaulted mortgage, or within such additional time as the Secretary authorizes in writing, the mortgagee must file the assignment for record.



---

[N] [51 FR 21872, June 16, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 48202, Dec. 21, 1987; 53 FR 9869, Mar. 28, 1988; 53 FR 13404, Apr. 25, 1988; 55 FR 282, Jan. 4, 1980; 61 FR 35018, July 3, 1996]




