# ยง 249.90   Timing, method and retention of disclosures.

(a) *Applicability.* A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to ยง 249.1 must disclose publicly all the information required under this subpart.


(b) *Timing of disclosure.* (1) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of all the information required under this subpart.


(2) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to this subpart must provide the disclosures required by this subpart beginning with the first calendar quarter that includes the date that is 18 months after the covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company first became subject to this subpart.


(c) *Disclosure method.* A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must disclose publicly, in a direct and prominent manner, the information required under this subpart on its public internet site or in its public financial or other public regulatory reports.


(d) *Availability.* The disclosures provided under this subpart must remain publicly available for at least five years after the initial disclosure date.



---

[N] [81 FR 94929, Dec. 27, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 59276, Nov. 1, 2019]




