# § 52.2501   Best available retrofit technology (BART) requirement for the Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company oil refinery—Better than BART Alternative.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to the Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company oil refinery (Tesoro) located in Anacortes, Washington and to its successors and/or assignees.


(b) *Better than BART Alternative.* The sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) emission limitation for non-BART eligible process heaters and boilers (Units F-101, F-102, F-201, F-301, F-652, F-751, and F-752) follows.


(1) *Compliance Date.* Starting no later November 10, 2014, Units F-101, F-102, F-201, F-301, F-652, F-751, and F-752 shall only fire refinery gas meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or pipeline quality natural gas.


(2) *Refinery fuel gas requirements.* In order to limit SO_2_ emissions, refinery fuel gas used in the units from blend drum V-213 must not contain greater than 0.10 percent by volume hydrogen sulfide (H_2_S), 365-day rolling average, measured according to paragraph (d) of this section.


(c) *Compliance demonstration.* Compliance with the H_2_S emission limitation must be demonstrated using a continuous emissions monitoring system as required in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Emission monitoring.* (1) A continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) for H_2_S concentration must be installed, calibrated, maintained and operated measuring the outlet stream of the fuel gas blend drum subsequent to all unmonitored incoming sources of sulfur compounds to the system and prior to any fuel gas combustion device. The monitor must be certified in accordance with 40 CFR part 60 appendix B and operated in accordance with 40 CFR part 60 appendix F.


(2) Tesoro must record the calendar day average H_2_S concentration of the refinery fuel gas as measured by the CEMS required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The daily averages must be used to calculate the 365-day rolling average.


(e) *Recordkeeping.* Records of the daily average H_2_S concentration and 365-day rolling averages must be retained at the facility for at least five years and be made available to the EPA Region 10 upon request.


(f) *Reporting.* (1) Calendar day and 365-day rolling average refinery fuel gas H_2_S concentrations must be reported to the EPA Region 10 at the same time that the semi-annual monitoring reports required by the Part 70 operating permit for the Tesoro oil refinery are submitted to the Title V permitting authority.


(2) All documents and reports must be sent to the EPA Region 10 electronically, in a format approved by the EPA Region 10, to the following email address: *R10-AirPermitReports@epa.gov.*


---

[N] [79 FR 33453, June 11, 2014]




