# § 4901.31   Charges for services.

(a) *In general.* Pursuant to the provisions of section 552 of FOIA, as amended, PBGC will assess charges to cover the direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and/or duplicating records requested under FOIA, except where the charges are limited or waived under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, according to the fee schedule in § 4901.32. No charge will be assessed if the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee would be equal to or greater than the fee itself. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, no charge for searching (or in the case of a requester described under section 552(a)(4)(A)(ii)(II) of FOIA, for duplication) will be assessed if PBGC has failed to comply with any time limit under section 552(a)(6) of FOIA.


(1) *Direct costs* means those expenditures which PBGC actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and in the case of commercial requesters, reviewing) documents to respond to a disclosure request under FOIA and this part. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space, and heating or lighting the facility in which the records are stored.


(2) *Search* means all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a disclosure request under FOIA and this part, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of materials within a document, if required. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming. Search is distinguishable from “review” which is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(3) *Review* means the process of examining documents located in response to a disclosure request under FOIA and this part to determine whether any portion of any document located is permitted or required to be withheld. It also includes processing any documents for disclosure, *e.g.,* doing all that is necessary to redact them and otherwise prepare them for release. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.


(4) *Duplication* means the process of making a copy of a document necessary to respond to a disclosure request under FOIA and this part, in a form that is reasonably usable by the requester. Copies can take the form of paper copy, audio-visual materials, or electronic records, among others.


(b) *Categories of requesters.* For purposes of assessing fees, requesters who seek access to records under FOIA and this part are divided into three categories: commercial use requesters, non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and all other requesters. PBGC will determine the category of a requester and charge fees according to the following rules.


(1) *Commercial use requesters.* (i) When records are requested for commercial use, PBGC will assess charges, as provided in this subpart, for the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. Fees for search and review may be charged even if the record searched for is not found or if, after it is found, it is determined that the request to inspect it may be denied under section 552(b) of FOIA and this part.


(ii) A “commercial use” request is a request that asks for information for a use or a purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation. PBGC's decision to place a requester in the commercial use category will be made on a case-by-case basis dependent upon on the requester's intended use of the information. PBGC will notify requesters of their placement in this category.


(2) *Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions, or news media requesters.* (i) When records are requested by a non-commercial scientific or educational institution or a news media requester, PBGC will assess charges, as provided in this subpart, for the full direct cost of duplication only, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.


(ii) A non-commercial scientific institution is an institution that is not operated for a “commercial use” as that term is defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.


(iii) An educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this fee category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution. PBGC may seek verification from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and PBGC will advise requesters of their placement in this category.


(iv)(A) A representative of the news media is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term news means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. These examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. A “freelance” journalist who demonstrates a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media.


(B) To be eligible for inclusion in this category, the request must not be made for a commercial use. A request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester who is a representative of the news media will not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.


(3) *All other requesters.* When records are requested by requesters who do not fit into any of the categories in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, PBGC will assess charges, as provided in this subpart, for the full direct cost of searching for and duplicating the records sought, with the exceptions that there will be no charge for the first 100 pages of duplication and the first 2 hours of search time. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, there will be no charge for search time in the event of requests under the Privacy Act of 1974 from subjects of records filed in PBGC's systems of records for the disclosure of records about themselves. Search fees, where applicable, may be charged even if the record sought is not found.


(c) *Aggregation of requests.* If PBGC reasonably believes that a requester or group of requesters is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, PBGC will aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly. In no case will PBGC aggregate multiple requests on unrelated subjects from one requester.


(d) *Waiver or reduction of charges.* Circumstances under which any fee listed in § 4901.32 may be waived or reduced are set forth in § 4901.34.


(e) *Unusual or exceptional circumstances.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if PBGC fails to comply with a time limit under section 552(a)(6) of FOIA, PBGC may nevertheless assess a charge for search and review services (or in the case of a requester described under section 552(a)(4)(A)(ii)(II), for duplication) if one of the following circumstances applies:


(1) PBGC has determined that unusual circumstances (as defined in section 552(a)(6)(B) of FOIA) apply, PBGC needs more than 10 additional days to process the disclosure request, and more than 5,000 pages are necessary to respond to the request, provided that:


(i) PBGC has provided timely written notice of this determination to the requester; and


(ii) PBGC has discussed with the requester, or made three or more good-faith attempts to do so, via written mail, electronic mail, or telephone how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request.


(2) PBGC has determined that unusual circumstances (as defined in section 552(a)(6)(B) of FOIA) apply, PBGC has provided timely written notice to the requester of the unusual circumstances extending the time limit by 10 additional days, and PBGC processes the disclosure request within that time.


(3) A court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist (as defined in section 552(a)(6)(C) of FOIA) and has issued an order excusing PBGC's failure to comply with the time limit.



---

[N] [61 FR 34123, July 1, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 26992, June 13, 2017; 87 FR 43997, July 25, 2022]




