# ยง 290.2   Definitions.

(a) The phrase *advanced manufacturing technology* refers to new technologies which have recently been developed, or are currently under development, for use in product or part design, fabrication, assembly, quality control, or improving production efficiency. 


(b) The term *Center* or *Regional Center* means a NIST-established Regional Center for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology described under these procedures. 


(c) The term *operating award* means a cooperative agreement which provides funding and technical assistance to a Center for purposes set forth in ยง 290.3 of these procedures. 


(d) The term *Director* means the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. 


(e) The term *NIST* means the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce. 


(f) The term *Program* or *Centers Program* means the NIST program for establishment of, support for, and cooperative interaction with Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology. 


(g) The term *qualified proposal* means a proposal submitted by a nonprofit organization which meets the basic requirements set forth in ยง 290.5 of these procedures. 


(h) The term *Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce. 


(i) The term *target firm* means those firms best able to absorb advanced manufacturing technologies and techniques, especially those developed at NIST, and which are already well prepared in an operational, management and financial sensse to improve the levels of technology they employ. 




