# ยง 187.5   Responsibilities.

(a) The *Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics)* shall:


(1) Serve as the responsible Department of Defense official for policy matters under Executive Order 12114 and this part;


(2) Modify or supplement any of the enclosures to this part in a manner consistent with the policies set forth in this part;


(3) Maintain liaison with the Council on Environmental Quality with respect to environmental documents;


(4) Participate in determining whether a recommendation should be made to the President that a natural or ecological resource of global importance be designated for protection; and 


(5) Consult with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs) on significant or sensitive actions or decisions affecting relations with another nation. 


(b) The *Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs)* shall: 


(1) Maintain liaison and conduct consultations with the Department of State as required under this part; and 


(2) Serve as the responsible official, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and Logistics), for monitoring the continuing cooperation and the exchange of information with other nations concerning the environment. 


(c) The *General Counsel, DoD,* shall provide advice and assistance concerning the requirements of Executive Order 12114 and this part. 


(d) The *Secretaries of the Military Departments, Directors of the Defense Agencies,* and *Commanders of the Unified and Specified Commands,* for operations under their jurisdiction, shall: 


(1) Prepare and consider environmental documents when required by this directive for proposed actions within their respective DoD component (this reporting requirement has been assigned Report Control Symbol DD-M(AR) 1327 (ยง 187.6)); 


(2) Insure that regulations and other major policy issuances are reviewed for consistency with Executive Order 12114 and this part; 


(3) Designate a single point-of-contact for matters pertaining to this part; and 


(4) Consult with the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs) on significant or sensitive actions or decisions affecting relations with another nation. 



---

[N] [44 FR 21786, Apr. 14, 1979. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64481, Dec. 10, 1991]




