# ยง 751.313   Phase-out of disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, treatment, or publicly owned treatment works.

(a) After September 15, 2025, all persons manufacturing (including importing), processing, and using TCE are prohibited from disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, industrial treatment, or publicly owned treatment works except as specified in the other subsections of this unit.


(b) After December 18, 2029, all industrial and commercial users of TCE for lithium battery separator manufacturing are prohibited from disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, industrial treatment, or publicly owned treatment works.


(c) After December 18, 2039, all industrial and commercial users of TCE for specialty polymeric microporous sheet materials manufacturing are prohibited from disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, industrial treatment, or publicly owned treatment works.


(d) After December 18, 2044, all industrial and commercial users of TCE for lead-acid battery separator manufacturing are prohibited from disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, industrial treatment, or publicly owned treatment works.


(e) The owner or operator of the location where disposal of TCE to industrial pre-treatment, treatment, or to a publicly owned treatment works occurs must comply with the Workplace Chemical Protection Program provisions in ยง 751.315.


(f) The owner or operator of the publicly owned treatment works where disposal of TCE occurs must comply with the wastewater workplace protections in ยง 751.319.


(g) The owner or operator of the location where such use of TCE occurs must comply with the recordkeeping requirements in ยง 751.323.






