# § 482.42   Condition of participation: Infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs.

The hospital must have active hospital-wide programs for the surveillance, prevention, and control of HAIs and other infectious diseases, and for the optimization of antibiotic use through stewardship. The programs must demonstrate adherence to nationally recognized infection prevention and control guidelines, as well as to best practices for improving antibiotic use where applicable, and for reducing the development and transmission of HAIs and antibiotic-resistant organisms. Infection prevention and control problems and antibiotic use issues identified in the programs must be addressed in collaboration with the hospital-wide quality assessment and performance improvement (QAPI) program.


(a) *Standard: Infection prevention and control program organization and policies.* The hospital must demonstrate that:


(1) An individual (or individuals), who is qualified through education, training, experience, or certification in infection prevention and control, is appointed by the governing body as the infection preventionist(s)/infection control professional(s) responsible for the infection prevention and control program and that the appointment is based on the recommendations of medical staff leadership and nursing leadership;


(2) The hospital infection prevention and control program, as documented in its policies and procedures, employs methods for preventing and controlling the transmission of infections within the hospital and between the hospital and other institutions and settings;


(3) The infection prevention and control program includes surveillance, prevention, and control of HAIs, including maintaining a clean and sanitary environment to avoid sources and transmission of infection, and addresses any infection control issues identified by public health authorities; and


(4) The infection prevention and control program reflects the scope and complexity of the hospital services provided.


(b) *Standard: Antibiotic stewardship program organization and policies.* The hospital must demonstrate that:


(1) An individual (or individuals), who is qualified through education, training, or experience in infectious diseases and/or antibiotic stewardship, is appointed by the governing body as the leader(s) of the antibiotic stewardship program and that the appointment is based on the recommendations of medical staff leadership and pharmacy leadership;


(2) The hospital-wide antibiotic stewardship program:


(i) Demonstrates coordination among all components of the hospital responsible for antibiotic use and resistance, including, but not limited to, the infection prevention and control program, the QAPI program, the medical staff, nursing services, and pharmacy services;


(ii) Documents the evidence-based use of antibiotics in all departments and services of the hospital; and


(iii) Documents any improvements, including sustained improvements, in proper antibiotic use;


(3) The antibiotic stewardship program adheres to nationally recognized guidelines, as well as best practices, for improving antibiotic use; and


(4) The antibiotic stewardship program reflects the scope and complexity of the hospital services provided.


(c) *Standard: Leadership responsibilities.* (1) The governing body must ensure all of the following:


(i) Systems are in place and operational for the tracking of all infection surveillance, prevention, and control, and antibiotic use activities, in order to demonstrate the implementation, success, and sustainability of such activities.


(ii) All HAIs and other infectious diseases identified by the infection prevention and control program as well as antibiotic use issues identified by the antibiotic stewardship program are addressed in collaboration with hospital QAPI leadership.


(2) The infection preventionist(s)/infection control professional(s) is responsible for:


(i) The development and implementation of hospital-wide infection surveillance, prevention, and control policies and procedures that adhere to nationally recognized guidelines.


(ii) All documentation, written or electronic, of the infection prevention and control program and its surveillance, prevention, and control activities.


(iii) Communication and collaboration with the hospital's QAPI program on infection prevention and control issues.


(iv) Competency-based training and education of hospital personnel and staff, including medical staff, and, as applicable, personnel providing contracted services in the hospital, on the practical applications of infection prevention and control guidelines, policies, and procedures.


(v) The prevention and control of HAIs, including auditing of adherence to infection prevention and control policies and procedures by hospital personnel.


(vi) Communication and collaboration with the antibiotic stewardship program.


(3) The leader(s) of the antibiotic stewardship program is responsible for:


(i) The development and implementation of a hospital-wide antibiotic stewardship program, based on nationally recognized guidelines, to monitor and improve the use of antibiotics.


(ii) All documentation, written or electronic, of antibiotic stewardship program activities.


(iii) Communication and collaboration with medical staff, nursing, and pharmacy leadership, as well as with the hospital's infection prevention and control and QAPI programs, on antibiotic use issues.


(iv) Competency-based training and education of hospital personnel and staff, including medical staff, and, as applicable, personnel providing contracted services in the hospital, on the practical applications of antibiotic stewardship guidelines, policies, and procedures.


(d) *Standard: Unified and integrated infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs for multi-hospital systems.* If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of multiple separately certified hospitals using a system governing body that is legally responsible for the conduct of two or more hospitals, the system governing body can elect to have unified and integrated infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs for all of its member hospitals after determining that such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws. The system governing body is responsible and accountable for ensuring that each of its separately certified hospitals meets all of the requirements of this section. Each separately certified hospital subject to the system governing body must demonstrate that:


(1) The unified and integrated infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs are established in a manner that takes into account each member hospital's unique circumstances and any significant differences in patient populations and services offered in each hospital;


(2) The unified and integrated infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs establish and implement policies and procedures to ensure that the needs and concerns of each of its separately certified hospitals, regardless of practice or location, are given due consideration;


(3) The unified and integrated infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs have mechanisms in place to ensure that issues localized to particular hospitals are duly considered and addressed; and


(4) A qualified individual (or individuals) with expertise in infection prevention and control and in antibiotic stewardship has been designated at the hospital as responsible for communicating with the unified infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs, for implementing and maintaining the policies and procedures governing infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship as directed by the unified infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship programs, and for providing education and training on the practical applications of infection prevention and control and antibiotic stewardship to hospital staff.


(e) *Respiratory illness reporting*—(1) *Ongoing reporting.* The hospital must electronically report information on acute respiratory illnesses, including influenza, SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19, and RSV.


(i) The report must be in a standardized format and frequency specified by the Secretary.


(ii) To the extent as required by the Secretary, this report must include all of the following data elements:


(A) Confirmed infections for a limited set of respiratory illnesses, including but not limited to influenza, SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19, and RSV, among newly admitted and hospitalized patients.


(B) Total bed census and capacity, including for critical hospital units and age groups.


(C) Limited patient demographic information, including but not limited to age.


(2) *Public health emergency (PHE) reporting.* In the event that the Secretary has declared a national, State, or local PHE for an acute infectious illness, the hospital must also electronically report the following data elements in a standardized format and frequency specified by the Secretary:


(i) Supply inventory shortages.


(ii) Staffing shortages.


(iii) Relevant medical countermeasures and therapeutic inventories, usage, or both.


(iv) Facility structure and operating status, including hospital/ED diversion status.



---

[N] [84 FR 51820, Sept. 30, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54872, Sept. 2, 2020; 85 FR 86303, Dec. 29, 2020; 86 FR 61619, Nov. 5, 2021; 87 FR 49409, Aug. 10, 2022; 87 FR 66575, Nov. 4, 2022; 88 FR 36510, June 5, 2023; 89 FR 69913, Aug. 28, 2024]


