# § 679.5   Recordkeeping and reporting (R&R).

(a) *General R&R requirements.* R&R requirements include, but are not limited to, paper and electronic documentation, logbooks, forms, reports, receipts, computer printouts, and requests for inspection described in this section and in § 679.28.


(1) *Groundfish logbooks and forms.* (i) The Regional Administrator will prescribe and provide groundfish logbooks required under this section. All groundfish forms required under this section are available from the Alaska Region website at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov* or may be requested by calling the Sustainable Fisheries Division at 907-586-7228 or faxing 907-586-7465. The forms may be completed online, printed, and mailed or faxed to NMFS at the address or fax number shown on the form. The forms also may be completed online, saved as a file, and submitted to NMFS as an attachment to an e-mail to the e-mail address shown on the form.


(ii) *Current editions.* The operator must use the current edition of the logbooks and current format of the forms. Upon approval from the Regional Administrator NMFS-approved electronic versions of the forms may be used. Upon written notification and approval by the Regional Administrator, logbooks from the previous year may be used.


(iii) *Management program defined.* A “management program” is a unique fishery program with a specific management strategy and/or allocation. Harvest that occurred under the management programs listed in the following table must be recorded separately in the logbooks, forms, and eLandings.


(2) *Responsibility.* (i) The operator of a catcher vessel, catcher/processor, mothership, or tender vessel (hereafter referred to as the operator) and the manager of a shoreside processor, SFP, or buying station (hereafter referred to as the manager) are each responsible for complying with the applicable R&R requirements in this section and in § 679.28.


(ii) The owner of a vessel, shoreside processor, SFP, buying station, or tender vessel is responsible for compliance and must ensure that the operator, manager, or representative (see paragraph (b) of this section) complies with the applicable R&R requirements in this section and in § 679.28.


(iii) The IFQ permit holder, IFQ hired master permit holder, or Registered Buyer must comply with the R&R requirements provided at paragraphs (e), (g), (k), and (l) of this section.


(iv) The CDQ permit holder, CDQ hired master permit holder, or Registered Buyer must comply with the R&R requirements provided at paragraphs (e), (g), (k), and (l)(1) through (6) of this section.


(3) *Fish to be recorded and reported.* The operator or manager must record and report the following information (see paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section) for all groundfish (see Table 2a to this part), prohibited species (see Table 2b to this part), forage fish (see Table 2c to this part), grenadiers (see Table 2c to this part), squids (see Table 2c to this part), and sculpins (see Table 2c to this part). The operator or manager may record and report the following information (see paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section) for non-groundfish (see Table 2d to this part):


(i) Harvest information;


(ii) Receipt information from catcher vessels, buying stations, and tender vessels including fish received from vessels not required to have an FFP; and fish received under contract for handling or processing for another processor;


(iii) Discard or disposition information, including fish reported but not delivered to the operator or manager, e.g., fish used onboard a vessel, when receiving catch from a catcher vessel, buying station, or tender vessel; and


(iv) Transfer information, including fish transferred out of the facility or off the vessel.


(4) *Exemptions*—(i) *Catcher vessels less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA.* The owner and operator of a catcher vessel less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA are required to comply with the vessel activity report described at paragraph (k) of this section, but otherwise are not required to comply with the R&R requirements of this section, except for:


(A) Vessels using pot gear as described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B)(*1*) of this section;


(B) Vessels participating in the PCTC Program as described in paragraph (x) of this section; and


(C) Catcher vessels in the trawl EM category as described in § 679.51(g).


(ii) *Catcher vessels that take groundfish in crab pot gear for use as crab bait on that vessel.* (A) Owners or operators of catcher vessels who, when crab is open anywhere or in the same area as an open crab season, take groundfish in crab pot gear for use as crab bait onboard their same vessels, and the bait is neither transferred nor sold, are not required to comply with R&R requirements of this section.


(B) This exemption does not apply to fishermen who:


(*1*) Catch groundfish for bait during an open crab season and sell that groundfish or transfer it to another vessel, or


(*2*) Participate in a directed fishery for groundfish using any gear type during periods that are outside an open crab season for use as crab bait onboard their vessel.


(C) No groundfish species listed by NMFS as “prohibited” in a management or regulatory area may be taken in that area for use as bait.


(5) *Inspection and retention of records*—(i) *Inspection of records.* The operator or manager must make available for inspection the R&R documentation in this section and in § 679.28 upon the request of an authorized officer.


(ii) *Retention of records.* The operator or manager must retain the R&R documentation described in this section and in § 679.28:


(A) *On site.* Retain these records on site at the shoreside processor or SFP, or onboard the vessel until the end of the fishing year during which the records were made and for as long thereafter as fish or fish products recorded in the R&R documentation are retained.


(B) *For 3 years.* Retain these records for 3 years after the end of the fishing year during which the records were made.


(6) *Maintenance of records.* The operator or manager must maintain all records described in this section and in § 679.28 in English and in a legible, timely, and accurate manner, based on Alaska local time (A.l.t.); if handwritten, in indelible ink; if computer-generated, as a legible printed paper copy.


(7) *Custom processing.* The manager of a shoreside processor or SFP or the operator of a mothership must record products that result from custom processing for another person in eLandings consistently throughout a fishing year using one of the following two methods:


(i) *Combined records.* Record landings, discards or dispositions, and products of custom-processed groundfish routinely in eLandings using processor name, FFP or FPP number, and ADF&G processor code; or


(ii) *Separate records.* Record landings, discards or dispositions, and products of custom-processed groundfish in eLandings identified by the name, FPP number or FFP number, and ADF&G processor code of the associated business entity.


(b) *Representative.* The operator of a catcher vessel, mothership, catcher/processor, or tender vessel or manager of a shoreside processor, SFP, or buying station may identify one contact person to complete the logbook and forms and to respond to inquiries from NMFS. Designation of a representative under this paragraph (b) does not relieve the owner, operator, or manager of responsibility for compliance under paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(c) *Logbooks*—(1) *Requirements*—(i) *Use of two or more vessel logbooks of same gear type.* If using more than one logbook of the same gear type in a fishing year onboard a vessel, the operator must ensure that the page numbers follow the consecutive order of the previous logbook.


(ii) *Use of two or more vessel logbooks of different gear types.* If two or more different gear types are used onboard a vessel in a fishing year, the operator(s) of this vessel may use the same vessel logbooks for different gear types, provided different gear types are recorded on separate pages.


(iii) *Two vessel logbooks for pair trawl.* If two vessels are dragging a trawl between them (pair trawl), the operator of each vessel must maintain a separate logbook to record the amount of the catch retained and fish discarded by that vessel. Each of the two logbooks must be separately paginated.


(iv) *Two logbooks of different operation.* If a vessel functions both as a mothership and as a catcher/processor in the same fishing year, the operator(s) must maintain two logbooks, a separate logbook for each operation type, each separately paginated.


(v) *Alteration of logbook information.* (A) Except as described in paragraph (c)(1)(v)(B) of this section, no person may alter or change any entry or record in a logbook.


(B) An inaccurate or incorrect entry or record must be corrected by lining out the original and inserting the correction, provided that the original entry or record remains legible. All corrections must be made in ink.


(vi) *Logsheet distribution and submittal.* (A) No person except an authorized officer may remove any original white logsheet of any logbook.


(B) The operator must distribute and submit logsheets as indicated in the following table:


(2) *Recording active and inactive time periods in the DFL or DCPL*—(i) *Account for each day of the fishing year.* The operator must account for each day of the fishing year, January 1 through December 31, in the DFL or DCPL and indicate whether the vessel or processor was active or inactive during the time period.


(A) An active period by fishing category is defined in the following paragraphs under this section:


(B) An inactive period is defined as a time period other than active.


(ii) *Record January 1 on page 1.* The operator must record the first day of the fishing year, January 1, on page one of the DFL or DCPL regardless of whether the vessel or processor was active or inactive. The operator must record time periods consecutively.


(iii) *Required information for inactive periods.* If inactive, the operator must record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section) on one logsheet in the DFL or DCPL:


(A) If a catcher vessel, record vessel name, ADF&G vessel registration number, FFP number or Federal crab vessel permit number, operator printed name, operator signature, and page number.


(B) If a mothership or catcher/processor, record vessel name, ADF&G processor code, FFP number, operator printed name, operator signature, and page number.


(C) Mark “inactive.”


(D) Record the date (mm/dd) of the first day when inactive under “Start date.”


(E) Write brief explanation why inactive, e.g., bad weather or equipment failure. If inactive due to surrender of a FFP or FPP, write “surrender of permit” as the reason for inactivity.


(F) Record the date (mm/dd) of the last day when inactive under “End date.”


(iv) *Inactive two or more quarters.* If the inactive time period extends across two or more successive quarters, the operator must complete a logsheet for each inactive quarter. The first logsheet must indicate the first and last day of the first inactive quarter. Successive logsheets must indicate the first and last day of its respective inactive quarter.


(3) *Longline and pot gear catcher vessel DFL and catcher/processor DCPL*—(i) *Responsibility*—(A) *Groundfish fisheries.* (*1*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the operator of a catcher vessel 60 ft (18.3 m) or greater LOA, that is required to have an FFP under § 679.4(b) and that is using longline or pot gear to harvest groundfish, must maintain a longline and pot gear DFL and may use the same logbook for longline and pot gear, provided different gear types are recorded on separate pages.


(*2*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor that is required to have an FFP under § 679.4(b) and that is using longline or pot gear to harvest groundfish must use a combination of catcher/processor longline and pot gear DCPL and eLandings to record and report daily processor identification information, catch-by-set information, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(B) *IFQ or CDQ halibut, or IFQ or CDQ sablefish fisheries.* (*1*) The operator of a catcher vessel less than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA, using longline pot gear to harvest IFQ sablefish or IFQ halibut in the GOA, or using pot gear to harvest IFQ or CDQ halibut or IFQ or CDQ sablefish in the BSAI, must maintain a longline and pot gear DFL according to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A)(*2*) of this section and may use the same logbook for longline and pot gear, provided different gear types are recorded on separate pages.


(*2*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the operator of a catcher vessel 60 ft (18.3 m) or greater LOA in the GOA must maintain a longline and pot gear DFL according to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A)(*2*) of this section, when using longline gear or longline pot gear to harvest IFQ sablefish and when using gear composed of lines with hooks attached, setline gear (IPHC), or longline pot gear to harvest IFQ halibut.


(*3*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, the operator of a catcher vessel 60 ft (18.3 m) or greater LOA in the BSAI must maintain a longline and pot gear DFL according to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(A)(*2*) of this section, when using hook-and-line gear or pot gear to harvest IFQ or CDQ sablefish, and when using pot gear or gear composed of lines with hooks attached or setline gear (IPHC) to harvest IFQ halibut or CDQ halibut.


(*4*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor in the GOA must use a combination of a catcher/processor longline and pot gear DCPL and eLandings according to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(*2*) of this section, when using longline gear or longline pot gear to harvest IFQ sablefish and when using gear composed of lines with hooks attached, setline gear (IPHC), or longline pot gear to harvest IFQ halibut.


(*5*) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor in the BSAI must use a combination of a catcher/processor longline and pot gear DCPL and eLandings according to (c)(3)(iv)(B)(*2*) of this section, when using hook-and-line gear or pot gear to harvest IFQ sablefish, and when using gear composed of lines with hooks attached or setline gear (IPHC) to harvest IFQ halibut or CDQ halibut.


(C) *CR crab fisheries.* The operator of a catcher vessel 60 ft (18.3 m) or greater LOA, using pot gear to harvest CR crab from the BSAI must maintain a longline and pot gear DFL.


(ii) *Reporting time limits*—(A) *Catcher vessel.* The operator of a catcher vessel using longline or pot gear must record in the DFL the information from the following table for each set within the specified time limit:


(B) *Catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using longline or pot gear must record in the DCPL or submit via eLandings the information from the following table for each set within the specified time limit:


(iii) *Required information, if inactive.* See paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(iv) *Required information, if active*—(A) *Catcher vessel, longline or pot gear.* (*1*) A catcher vessel using longline or pot gear is active when gear remains on the grounds in a reporting area (except reporting areas 300, 400, 550, or 690), regardless of the vessel location.


(*2*) If a catcher vessel identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A)(*1*) or (c)(3)(i)(B)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section is active, the operator must record in the longline and pot gear DFL, for one or more days on each logsheet, the information listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(v), (vi), (viii), and (x) of this section and may use the same logbook for longline and pot gear, provided different gear types are recorded on separate pages.


(*3*) *Retain and record discard quantities over the MRA.* When a CV is fishing in an IFQ fishery and the fishery for Pacific cod is closed to directed fishing but not in PSC status in that reporting area as described in § 679.20, the operator must retain and record up to and including the maximum retainable amount (MRA) for Pacific cod as defined in Tables 10 or 11 to this part. Quantities over this amount must be discarded and recorded as discard in the logbook.


(B) *Catcher/processor, longline or pot gear.* (*1*) A catcher/processor using longline or pot gear is active when processing or when all or part of the longline or pot gear is in the water.


(*2*) If a catcher/processor identified in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A)(*2*) or (c)(3)(i)(B)(*4*) through (*5*) of this section is active, the operator must record in the catcher/processor longline and pot gear DCPL the information listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(v) and (vi) of this section and must record in eLandings the information listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(v), (vii), and (ix) of this section.


(*3*) *Retain and record discard quantities over the MRA.* When a catcher/processor is fishing in an IFQ fishery and the fishery for Pacific cod or rockfish is closed to directed fishing but not in PSC status in that reporting area as described in § 679.20, the operator must retain and record up to and including the MRA for Pacific cod or rockfish as defined in Table 10 or 11 to this part. Quantities over this amount must be discarded and recorded as discard in eLandings.


(v) *Identification information*—(A) *Page number.* Number the pages in each logbook consecutively, beginning on the first page of the DFL or DCPL with page 1 for January 1 and continuing for the remainder of the fishing year.


(B) *Printed name and signature of operator.* The operator's name must be printed in the DFL or DCPL. The operator must sign each completed logsheet of the DFL or DCPL as verification of acceptance of the responsibility required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section


(C) *Vessel identification.* Name of vessel as displayed in official documentation; FFP number or Federal crab vessel permit number of the vessel; and ADF&G vessel registration number if a catcher vessel or ADF&G processor code if a catcher/processor.


(D) *Other permit numbers (if applicable).* IFQ permit number of the operator, if any, and each permit number of any IFQ permit on which anyone aboard is authorized to fish; groundfish CDQ number; and halibut CDQ permit number.


(E) *Reporting area*—(*1*) *Groundfish.* Record the Federal reporting area code (see Figures 1 and 3 to this part) where gear retrieval was completed, regardless of where the majority of the set took place. Use a separate logsheet for each reporting area.


(*2*) *IFQ halibut and CDQ halibut.* Record the IPHC regulatory area (see Figure 15 to this part) where gear retrieval was completed, regardless of where the majority of the set took place.


(*3*) *CR crab.* Leave this field blank.


(F) *Crew size.* If a catcher vessel, record the number of crew members (including operator), excluding observer(s), on the last day of a trip. If a catcher/processor, record the number of crew members (including operator), excluding observer(s), on the last day of the weekly reporting period.


(G) *Gear type.* Use a separate logsheet for each gear type. Place a check mark in the box for the gear type used to harvest the fish or crab. Record the information from the following table for the appropriate gear type on the logsheet. If the gear type is the same on subsequent logsheets, place a check mark in the box instead of re-entering the gear type information on the next logsheet.


(H) *Management program.* Indicate whether harvest occurred under a management program (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section). Use a separate logsheet for each management program. If harvest is not under one of the listed management programs, leave blank.


(I) *Observer information.* Record the number of observers aboard, the name of the observer(s), and the observer cruise number(s).


(vi) *Catch-by-set information.* The operator must record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(3)(vi)(A) through (L) of this section) for each set (see § 679.2) in the DFL or DCPL. If no catch occurred for a given day, write “no catch.”


(A) *Set number.* Sequentially by year.


(B) *Gear deployment (or to set gear)*—(*1*) *Hook-and-line gear begin position.* Record date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and the begin position (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) when the first hook-and-line gear of a set enters the water.


(*2*) *Jig or troll gear begin position.* Record date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and the begin position (latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) when the jig or troll gear enters the water.


(*3*) *Pot gear begin position.* Record date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and the begin position (latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) when the pot gear enters the water.


(C) *Gear retrieval (or to haul gear)*—(*1*) *Hook-and-line gear end position.* Date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and end position coordinates (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude), where the last hook-and-line gear of a set leaves the water, regardless of where the majority of the set took place.


(*2*) *Jig or troll gear end position.* Date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and end position coordinates (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) where the jig or troll gear leaves the water.


(*3*) *Pot gear end position.* Date (mm/dd), time (in military format, A.l.t.), and end position coordinates (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) where the last pot of a set is retrieved, regardless of where the majority of the set took place.


(D) *Begin and end buoy or bag numbers.* (optional, but may be required by IPHC regulations (see §§ 300.60 through 300.65 of this chapter)).


(E) *Begin and end gear depths.* Recorded to the nearest fathom (optional, but may be required by IPHC regulations (see §§ 300.60 through 300.65 of this chapter)).


(F) *Species codes.* The operator must record and report required information for all groundfish (see Table 2a to this part), prohibited species (see Table 2b to this part), forage fish (see Table 2c to this part), grenadiers (see Table 2c to this part), squids (see Table 2c to this part), and sculpins (see Table 2c to this part). The operator may record and report information for non-groundfish (see Table 2d to this part).


(G) *Target species code.* Enter the species code of the intended species to be harvested. Enter only one target species code.


(H) *Estimated total hail weight.* Enter the estimated hail weight, which is an estimate of the total weight of the entire catch without regard to species. Indicate whether weight is estimated to the nearest pound or to the nearest 0.001 mt.


(I) *IR/IU species (see § 679.27).* If a catcher/processor, enter species code of IR/IU species and estimated total round weight for each IR/IU species, if applicable; indicate whether weight is estimated to the nearest pound or the nearest 0.001 mt. Use one line to record information for each IR/IU species, including species code and amount of catch. If more than one IR/IU species are to be recorded, the operator must use a separate line for each species.


(J) *IFQ halibut and CDQ halibut.* Estimated total net weight of IFQ halibut and CDQ halibut to the nearest pound.


(K) *IFQ sablefish.* Number and estimated total round weight of IFQ sablefish to the nearest pound. Indicate whether IFQ sablefish product is Western cut, Eastern cut, or round weight.


(L) *CR crab.* If in a CR crab fishery, record the number and scale weight of raw CR crab to the nearest pound.


(vii) *Product information, catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using longline or pot gear must record groundfish product information for all retained groundfish in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section).


(viii) *Discard or disposition information, catcher vessel.* The operator must record in a DFL the discard or disposition information that occurred prior to and during delivery to a buying station, tender vessel, mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP. Discard or disposition information must include the daily weight of groundfish, daily weight of herring PSC, and daily number of PSC animals. If no discard or disposition occurred for a given day, the operator must write “no discards or disposition.”


(A) Enter discard or disposition information by species codes and product codes as follows:


(*1*) Date (mm/dd) of discard or disposition (day that discard or disposition occurred).


(*2*) For whole fish discard or disposition of groundfish or Pacific herring PSC, daily estimated total weight, balance forward weight from the previous day, and cumulative total weight since last delivery for each species; indicate whether weight is estimated to the nearest pound or nearest 0.001 mt.


(*3*) For whole fish discard or disposition of each prohibited species (Pacific salmon, steelhead trout, Pacific halibut, king crabs, and Tanner crabs) record the daily estimated total number, balance forward from the previous day, and cumulative total number since the last delivery.


(*4*) Summarize the weekly cumulative discard and disposition totals of groundfish weights and number of PSC animals separately by reporting area, management program, and gear type. Determine the weekly cumulative total by adding daily totals and the balance carried forward from the day before.


(B) The operator must record “0” or zero balance forward and start a new logsheet after the offload or transfer of all fish or fish product onboard and prior to the beginning of each fishing trip. Nothing shall be carried forward from the previous fishing trip.


(ix) *Discard or disposition information, catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using longline or pot gear must record all discard or disposition information in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section).


(x) *Catcher vessel delivery information.* The operator of a catcher vessel must enter the following information (see paragraphs (c)(3)(x)(A) through (D) of this section) for delivery to a buying station, tender vessel, mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP:


(A) Date (mm/dd) that delivery of harvest was completed.


(B) ADF&G fish ticket issued to operator by the recipient, Registered Buyer, or RCR receiving the delivery.


(C) Name of recipient, Registered Buyer, or RCR.


(D) For the unloading port, enter the name of the port or port code (see Tables 14a and 14b to this part) of delivery location.


(4) *Trawl gear catcher vessel DFL and catcher/processor DCPL*—(i) *Responsibility.* (A) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section, the operator of a catcher vessel 60 ft (18.3 m) or greater LOA, that is required to have an FFP under § 679.4(b), and that is using trawl gear to harvest groundfish must maintain a trawl gear DFL, must complete one or more logsheets per day. Upon notification by the Regional Administrator, a DFL from the previous year may be used.


(B) Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) or (vii) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor that is required to have an FFP under § 679.4(b) and that is using trawl gear to harvest groundfish is required to use a combination of catcher/processor trawl gear DCPL and eLandings to record and report daily processor identification information, catch-by-haul landing information, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data. Under paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, the operators of AFA catcher/processors or any catcher/processor harvesting pollock CDQ are required to use an ELB and no longer report using a DCPL.


(ii) *Reporting time limits*—(A) *Catcher vessel.* The operator of a catcher vessel using trawl gear must record in the DFL the information in the following table for each haul within the specified time limit:


(B) *Catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using trawl gear must record in the DCPL or submit via eLandings the information in the following table for each haul within the specified time limit:


(iii) *Required information, if inactive.* See paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(iv) *Required information, if active*—(A) *Catcher vessel.* (*1*) A catcher vessel using trawl gear is active when all or part of the trawl net is in the water.


(*2*) If the catcher vessel identified in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section is active, the operator must record for one day per logsheet in the DFL, the information described in paragraphs (c)(4)(v), (vi), (viii), and (x) of this section.


(B) *Catcher/processor.* (*1*) A catcher/processor using trawl gear is active when processing groundfish or when all or part of the trawl net is in the water.


(*2*) If the catcher/processor identified in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section is active, the operator must record for one day per logsheet in the DCPL, the information described in paragraphs (c)(4)(v) and (vi) of this section and submit in eLandings the information described in paragraphs (c)(4)(v), (vii), and (ix) of this section.


(v) *Identification information.* If active, the operator must record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(4)(v)(A) through (J) of this section):


(A) *Date.* Enter date of each day (mm/dd/yyyy). This date is also the date of gear deployment.


(B) *Page number.* Number the pages in each logbook consecutively, beginning on the first page of the DFL or DCPL with page 1 for January 1 and continuing for the remainder of the fishing year.


(C) *Printed name and signature of operator.* The operator's name must be printed in the DFL or DCPL. The operator must sign each completed logsheet of the DFL or DCPL as verification of acceptance of the responsibility required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The operator's signature is due by 2400 hours A.l.t. of the day following the week-ending date of the weekly reporting period.


(D) *Vessel identification.* Name of vessel as displayed in official documentation; FFP number of the vessel; ADF&G vessel registration number if a catcher vessel; and ADF&G processor code if a catcher/processor.


(E) *Federal reporting area.* Record the Federal reporting area code where gear retrieval was completed, regardless of where the majority of the set took place. Use a separate logsheet for each reporting area.


(F) *COBLZ or RKCSA.* If gear retrieval occurred in the COBLZ (see Figure 13 to this part) or RKCSA (see Figure 11 to this part) area within a reporting area, use two separate logsheets, the first to record the information from the reporting area that includes COBLZ or RKCSA, and the second to record the information from the reporting area that does not include COBLZ or RKCSA.


(G) *Crew size.* If a catcher vessel, record the number of crew members (including operator), excluding observer(s), on the last day of a trip. If a catcher/processor, record the number of crew members (including operator), excluding observer(s), on the last day of the weekly reporting period.


(H) *Gear type.* Use a separate logsheet for each gear type. Indicate whether pelagic trawl or non-pelagic trawl gear was used to harvest the fish.


(I) *Management program.* Indicate whether harvest occurred under one of the management programs (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section). Use a separate logsheet for each management program. If harvest is not under one of the listed management programs, leave blank.


(J) *Observer information.* Record the number of observers aboard, the name of the observer(s), and the observer cruise number(s).


(vi) *Catch-by-haul information.* The operator must record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(4)(vi)(A) through (I) of this section) for each haul (see § 679.2). If no catch occurred for a given day, write “no catch.”


(A) *Haul number.* Number hauls sequentially by year.


(B) *Gear deployment (or to set gear).* Record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(4)(vi)(B)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section) for trawl gear deployment:


(*1*) The time (in military format, A.l.t.) when the trawl net enters the water, and


(*2*) The position (latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) where the trawl net enters the water.


(C) *Gear retrieval (or to haul gear).* Record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(4)(vi)(C)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section) for trawl gear retrieval:


(*1*) The date (mm/dd) and time (in military format, A.l.t.) when retrieval of trawl gear cable begins.


(*2*) The position (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) where retrieval of trawl gear cable begins.


(D) *Average sea depth and average gear depth.* Average sea depth and average gear depth; indicate whether average is reported to the nearest meter or fathom.


(E) *Species codes.* The operator must record and report required information for all groundfish (see Table 2a to this part), prohibited species (see Table 2b to this part), forage fish (see Table 2c to this part), grenadiers (see Table 2c to this part), squids (see Table 2c to this part), and sculpins (see Table 2c to this part). The operator may record and report information for non-groundfish (see Table 2d to this part).


(F) *Target species code.* Enter the species code of the species to be harvested. Enter only one target species code.


(G) *IR/IU species (see § 679.27).* If a catcher/processor, enter species code of IR/IU species and estimated total round weight for each IR/IU species, if applicable; indicate whether estimated weight is to the nearest pound or the nearest 0.001 mt. Use one line to record information for each IR/IU species, including species code and amount of catch. If more than one IR/IU species are to be recorded, the operator must use a separate line for each species.


(H) *Total estimated hail weight.* (*1*) If a catcher vessel or catcher/processor using trawl gear and not using NMFS-approved scales, the operator must record the hail weight of each haul; total hail weight is an estimate of the total weight of the entire catch without regard to species. Indicate whether estimated weight is to the nearest pound or to the nearest 0.001 mt.


(*2*) If a catcher/processor using trawl gear is required to use a NMFS-approved scale, the operator must record the scale weight of each haul without regard to species. Indicate whether weight is to the nearest pound or to the nearest 0.001 mt.


(I) *Movement to Avoid Salmon.* If a catcher vessel is directed fishing for pollock in the Bering Sea, indicate with a check mark (X) whether, prior to the haul, the operator moved fishing location primarily to avoid Chinook salmon bycatch.


(vii) *Product information, catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using trawl gear must record all product information for all retained groundfish in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section).


(viii) *Discard or disposition information, catcher vessel.* The operator must record in a DFL (see paragraphs (c)(4)(viii)(A) through (E) of this section) the discard or disposition that occurred prior to and during delivery to a buying station, tender vessel, mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP. If no discards or disposition occurred on a given day, write “no discards or disposition.”


(A) *Species code and product code.* Record the species code and product code for all discards and disposition of groundfish and PSC Pacific herring, Pacific salmon, steelhead trout, Pacific halibut, king crabs, and Tanner crabs.


(B) *Discard and disposition weight.* Record the daily estimated total round weight of groundfish or Pacific herring PSC discards and disposition, balance forward weight from the previous day, and cumulative total weight since last delivery, calculated by adding the daily totals and balance carried forward from the day before; indicate whether estimated weight is to the nearest pound or nearest 0.001 mt.


(C) *PSC discard numbers.* Record the daily number of PSC discards and disposition, balance forward from the previous day, and cumulative total number since last delivery of PSC animals (Pacific salmon, steelhead trout, Pacific halibut, king crabs, and Tanner crabs).


(D) *Discard and disposition cumulative total.* Summarize cumulative discard and disposition totals of groundfish and PSC animals separately by reporting area, if harvest occurred in the COBLZ or RKCSA, management program, and gear type.


(E) *Discard zero balance forward.* After the offload or transfer of all fish or fish product onboard and prior to the beginning of each fishing trip, the operator must record the balance forward from the previous day as “zero” and start a new logsheet. At the beginning of each fishing trip, nothing shall be carried forward from the previous fishing trip.


(ix) *Discard or disposition information, catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor using trawl gear must record discard or disposition information in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section).


(x) *Catcher vessel delivery information.* The operator must enter the following delivery information (see paragraphs (c)(4)(x)(A) through (C) of this section) for groundfish delivered to a buying station, tender vessel, mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP:


(A) Date (mm/dd) that delivery of harvest was completed,


(B) ADF&G fish ticket number issued to operator by the recipient receiving the delivery, and


(C) Name and ADF&G processor code of recipient.


(5) *Shoreside processor DCPL.* The shoreside processor DCPL has been replaced by eLandings and is no longer available. (See paragraph (e) of this section.)


(i) *Required information, if inactive.* See paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(ii) *Required information, if active.* A shoreside processor or SFP is active when receiving or processing groundfish.


(6) *Mothership DCPL*—(i) *Responsibility.* Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section, the operator of a mothership that is required to have an FFP under § 679.4(b), or the manager of a CQE floating processor that receives or processes any groundfish from the GOA or BSAI from vessels issued an FFP under § 679.4(b), is required to use a combination of mothership DCPL and eLandings to record and report daily processor identification information, delivery information, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data. The operator or manager must enter into the DCPL any information for groundfish received from catcher vessels, groundfish received from processors for reprocessing or rehandling, and groundfish received from an associated tender vessel.


(ii) *Reporting time limits.* The operator of a mothership must record in the DCPL or submit via eLandings the information in the following table for each groundfish delivery within the specified time limit:


(iii) *Required information, if inactive.* See paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(iv) *Required information, if active.* A mothership is active when receiving or processing groundfish. If the mothership identified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section is active, the operator must record for one day per logsheet in the DCPL, the information described in paragraphs (c)(6)(v) and (vi) of this section and record in eLandings the information described in paragraphs (c)(6)(v), (vii), and (viii) of this section.


(v) *Identification information.* If active, the operator must record the following information (see paragraphs (c)(6)(v)(A) through (J) of this section) in the DCPL:


(A) *Page number.* Number the pages in each logbook consecutively, beginning with page 1 for January 1 and continuing throughout the logbook for the remainder of the fishing year.


(B) *Printed name and signature of operator.* The operator's name must be printed in the DCPL. The operator must sign each completed DCPL logsheet as verification of acceptance of the responsibility required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(C) *Vessel information.* Name of mothership, or CQE floating processor as displayed in official documentation, FFP or FPP number, and ADF&G processor code.


(D) *Date.* Enter date (mm/dd/yyyy) of each operating day.


(E) *Crew size.* Record the number of crew members (including operator), excluding observer(s), on the last day of the weekly reporting period.


(F) *Gear type.* Indicate the gear type of harvester. If gear type is other than those listed, circle “Other” and describe. Use a separate logsheet for each gear type.


(G) *Federal reporting areas.* Record Federal reporting area code (see Figures 1 and 3 to this part) where harvest was completed. Use a separate logsheet for each reporting area.


(H) *COBLZ or RKCSA.* If groundfish was harvested with trawl gear in the COBLZ or RKCSA, use two separate logsheets to record the information: one logsheet for the reporting area that includes COBLZ or RKCSA, and a second logsheet to record the information from the reporting area that does not include COBLZ or RKCSA.


(I) *Observer information.* Record the number of observers aboard, the name(s) of the observer(s), and the observer cruise number(s).


(J) *Management program.* Indicate whether harvest occurred under one of the management programs (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section). Use a separate logsheet for each management program. If harvest is not under one of the listed management programs, leave blank.


(*1*) For the PCTC Program, enter the observer's haul number for each catcher vessel delivery of an unsorted codend by 2400 hours, A.l.t., each day to record the previous day's delivery information.


(*2*) [Reserved]


(vi) *Delivery information.* The operator must record delivery information (see paragraphs (c)(6)(vi)(A) through (H) of this section) when unprocessed groundfish deliveries are received by the mothership from a tender vessel or a catcher vessel. If no deliveries are received for a given day, write “no deliveries.”


(A) *Type of delivery.* Enter “CV” or “TV” to indicate if delivery was from a catcher vessel or tender vessel, respectively.


(B) *Non-submittal of discard report.* Indicate whether the blue logsheet was received from the catcher vessel at the time of catch delivery. If the delivery was from a tender vessel, leave this column blank. If the blue logsheet is not received from the catcher vessel, enter “NO” and one of the response codes in the following table to describe the reason for non-submittal.


(C) *Vessel identification.* Name and ADF&G vessel registration number of the catcher vessel or tender vessel (if applicable) delivering the groundfish.


(D) *Receipt time.* Record time (in military format, A.l.t.) when receipt of groundfish delivery was completed.


(E) *Beginning position of receipt.* Record the position coordinates (in latitude and longitude to the nearest minute; indicate E or W for longitude) where receipt of the groundfish delivery began.


(F) *Estimated total groundfish hail weight.* Enter the estimated total hail weight of the combined species of each delivery from a catcher vessel or tender vessel. Total estimated hail weight is an estimate of the total weight of the entire catch without regard to species. Indicate whether the estimated weight is to the nearest pound or to the nearest 0.001 mt. If a catcher vessel reported discards on a blue DFL but did not deliver groundfish, enter “0” in this column.


(G) *IR/IU species (see § 679.27).* Enter the species code of IR/IU species and the estimated total round weight for each IR/IU species, if applicable; indicate whether estimated weight is to the nearest pound or the nearest 0.001 mt. Use one line to record information for each IR/IU species, including species code and amount of catch. If more than one IR/IU species are to be recorded, the operator must use a separate line for each species.


(H) *ADF&G fish ticket numbers.* If receiving unprocessed groundfish from a catcher vessel, record the ADF&G fish ticket number that the mothership issued to each catcher vessel. If receiving unprocessed groundfish from an associated tender vessel, record the ADF&G fish ticket numbers issued by the tender vessel on behalf of the mothership to the catcher vessel.


(vii) *Product information.* The operator of a mothership must record all groundfish product information in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section), including products made from unprocessed groundfish deliveries received from a tender vessel or a catcher vessel; groundfish received from another processor or other source; and groundfish received for custom processing (see paragraph (a)(7) of this section) by the mothership for another processor or business entity.


(viii) *Discard or disposition information.* The operator of a mothership must record discard and disposition information in eLandings (see paragraph (e)(10) of this section). The discard or disposition information must include:


(A) Discards and disposition that occurred onboard after receipt of groundfish from a catcher vessel or tender vessel;


(B) Discards and disposition that occurred prior to, during, and after processing of groundfish;


(C) Discards and disposition that were reported on a blue DFL received from a catcher vessel delivering groundfish;


(D) Discards and disposition that are recorded on a blue DFL received from a catcher vessel even though no groundfish are delivered; and


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) *Interagency Electronic Reporting System (IERS) and eLandings*—(1) *Responsibility*—(i) *Hardware, software, and Internet connectivity.* A User must obtain at his or her own expense hardware, software, and Internet connectivity to support Internet submissions of commercial fishery landings for which participants report to NMFS: landing data, production data, and discard or disposition data. The User must enter this information via the Internet by logging on to the eLandings system at *http://elandings.alaska.gov* or other NMFS-approved software or by using the desktop client software.


(ii) *Reporting of non-IFQ groundfish.* If the User is unable to submit commercial fishery landings of non-IFQ groundfish due to hardware, software, or Internet failure for a period longer than the required reporting time, contact NMFS Inseason Management at 907-586-7228 for instructions. When the hardware, software, or Internet is restored, the User must enter this same information into eLandings or other NMFS-approved software.


(iii) *IFQ manual landing report.* If the User is unable to submit commercial fishery landings of IFQ crab, IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish due to hardware, software, or Internet failure for a period longer than the required reporting time, or a change must be made to information already submitted, the User must complete an IFQ manual landing report. Manual landing instructions must be obtained from OLE, Juneau, AK, at 800-304-4846 (Select Option 1).


(A) The User must complete all questions on the manual report, even if only one item has changed. The following additional information is required: whether the report is original or revised, name, telephone number, and fax number of individual submitting the manual landing report.


(B) The User must fax the IFQ manual landing report to 907-586-7313.


(C) The User must retain the paper copies of IFQ manual landing reports as indicated at paragraph (a)(5) of this section and make them available upon request of NMFS observers and authorized officers as indicated at paragraph (a)(6) of this section.


(2) *eLandings processor registration.* (i) Before a User can use the eLandings system to report landings, production, discard or disposition data, he or she must request authorization to use the system, reserve a unique UserID, and obtain a password by using the Internet to complete the eLandings processor registration at *https://elandings.alaska.gov/elandings/Register.*

(ii) Upon registration acceptance, the User must print, sign, and mail the User Agreement Form to NMFS at the address or fax number shown on the form. Confirmation will be e-mailed to indicate that the User is registered, authorized to use eLandings, and that the UserID and User's account are enabled.


(iii) The User's signature on the registration form means that the User agrees to the following terms (see paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section):


(A) To use eLandings access privileges only for submitting legitimate fishery landing reports;


(B) To safeguard the UserID and password to prevent their use by unauthorized persons; and


(C) To ensure that the User is authorized to submit landing reports for the processor permit number(s) listed.


(3) *Information required for eLandings processor registration form.* The User must enter the following information (see paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section) to obtain operation registration and UserID registration:


(i) *Operation type.* Select the operation type from the dropdown list.


(ii) *Operation name.* Enter a name that will refer to the specific operation. For example, if the plant is in Kodiak and the company is East Pacific Seafoods, the operation name might read “East Pacific Seafoods-Kodiak.”


(iii) *ADF&G processor code.* Enter ADF&G processor code.


(iv) *Federal permit number.* Enter all the federal permits associated with the operation.


(A) *Groundfish shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor.* If a groundfish shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor, enter the FPP number.


(B) *Groundfish catcher/processor or mothership.* If a groundfish catcher/processor or mothership, enter the FFP number.


(C) *Registered Buyer.* If a Registered Buyer, enter the Registered Buyer permit number.


(D) *Registered Crab Receiver.* If a Registered Crab Receiver, enter the Registered Crab Receiver permit number.


(v) *Port code.* Enter the home port code (see Tables 14a, 14b, and 14c to this part) for the operation.


(vi) *ADF&G vessel registration number.* If a mothership, catcher/processor, or tender operation, the operator must enter the ADF&G vessel identification number of the vessel.


(vii) *Vehicle license number.* If a buying station operation that is a vehicle, enter vehicle license number and the state of license issuance.


(viii) *Physical operation.* If a buying station, tender vessel, or custom processor, enter the following information to identify the associated processor where the processing will take place: operation type, ADF&G processor code, and applicable FFP number, FPP number, Registered Buyer permit number, and Registered Crab Receiver permit number.


(ix) *UserID registration for primary User.* Each operation requires a primary User. Enter the following information for the primary User for the new operation: create and enter a UserID, initial password, company name, User name (name of the person who will use the UserID), city and state where the operation is located, business telephone number, business fax number, business e-mail address, security question, and security answer.


(4) *Information entered automatically for eLandings landing report.* eLandings autofills the following fields from processor registration records (see paragraph (e)(2) of this section): UserID, processor company name, business telephone number, e-mail address, port of landing, operation type (for catcher/processors, motherships, or SFPs), ADF&G processor code, and Federal permit number. The User must review the autofilled cells to ensure that they are accurate for the landing that is taking place. eLandings assigns a unique landing report number and an ADF&G electronic fish ticket number upon completion of data entry.


(5) *Shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor landing report.* The manager of a shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor that receives groundfish from a catcher vessel issued an FFP under § 679.4 and that is required to have an FPP under § 679.4(f) must use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit a daily landing report during the fishing year to report processor identification information and the following information under paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) Information entered for each groundfish delivery to a shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor. The User for a shoreside processor, SFP, or CQE floating processor must enter the following information (see paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section) for each groundfish delivery (other than IFQ sablefish) provided by the operator of a catcher vessel, the operator or manager of an associated buying station or tender vessel, and from processors for reprocessing or rehandling product into eLandings or other NMFS-approved software:


(A) *Delivery information.* (*1*) Number of observers onboard.


(*2*) For crew size, enter the number of licensed crew aboard the vessel, including the operator.


(*3*) Management program name and identifying number, if any, in which harvest occurred (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section).


(*4*) ADF&G groundfish statistical area of harvest.


(*5*) For date of landing, enter date (mm/dd/yyyy) that the delivery was completed.


(*6*) Indicate (YES or NO) whether delivery is from a buying station or tender vessel.


(*7*) If the delivery is received from a buying station, indicate the name of the buying station. If the delivery is received from a tender vessel, enter the ADF&G vessel registration number.


(*8*) If delivery is received from a catcher vessel, indicate the ADF&G vessel registration number of the vessel.


(*9*) Indicate whether the blue logsheet was received from the catcher vessel at the time of catch delivery. If the blue logsheet is not received from the catcher vessel, enter “NO” and select the applicable code from the following table to explain the reason provided by the catcher vessel for not supplying this copy:


(*10*) Gear type of harvester.


(*11*) ADF&G fish ticket number provided to catcher vessel (eLandings assigns an ADF&G fish ticket number to the landing report).


(*12*) If receiving deliveries of groundfish in the marine municipal boundaries of a CQE community listed in Table 21 to this part.


(B) *Landed scale weight.* The User for a shoreside processor or SFP must record landed scale weight (to the nearest pound) for all retained species from groundfish deliveries by species code and delivery condition code. Obtain actual weights for each groundfish species received and retained by:


(*1*) Sorting according to species codes and direct weighing of that species, or


(*2*) Weighing the entire delivery and then sorting and weighing the groundfish species individually to determine their weights.


(C) *Discard or disposition information.* The User must record:


(*1*) Discard or disposition of fish: that occurred on and was reported by a catcher vessel; that occurred on and was reported by a buying station or tender vessel; and that occurred prior to, during, and/or after production of groundfish at the shoreside processor or SFP. Discards and dispositions also must be recorded when no groundfish are delivered but the blue DFL is submitted by a catcher vessel containing records of discards or disposition.


(*2*) If groundfish or PSC herring, enter species code, delivery condition code, disposition code, and weight (to the nearest pound), and


(*3*) If PSC halibut, salmon, or crab, enter species code, delivery condition code, disposition code, and count (in numbers of animals).


(ii) *Submittal time limit.* The User for a shoreside processor or SFP must submit a landing report containing the information described in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section for each groundfish delivery from a specific vessel by 1200 hours, A.l.t., of the day following completion of the delivery. If the landed scale weight required in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(C) of this section is not available by this deadline, the User must transmit an estimated weight for each species by 1200 hours, A.l.t., of the day following completion of the delivery, and must submit a revised landing report with the landed scale weight for each species by 1200 hours, A.l.t., of the third day following completion of the delivery.


(iii) *Compliance.* By using eLandings, the User for the shoreside processor or SFP and the operator for the catcher vessel or tender vessel or manager of the buying station providing information to the User for the shoreside processor or SFP accept the responsibility of and acknowledge compliance with § 679.7(a)(10).


(6) *Mothership landing report.* The operator of a mothership that is issued an FFP under § 679.4(b) that receives groundfish from a catcher vessel required to have an FFP under § 679.4 is required to use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit a daily landing report during the fishing year to report processor identification information and the following information under paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section:


(i) *Information entered for each groundfish delivery to a mothership.* The User for a mothership must enter the following information (see paragraphs (e)(6)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*12*) of this section) provided by the operator of a catcher vessel, operator or manager of an associated tender vessel, or information received from processors for reprocessing or rehandling product.


(A) *Delivery information.* (*1*) Number of observers onboard.


(*2*) Crew size (including operator).


(*3*) Management program name and identifying number, if any, in which harvest occurred (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section).


(*4*) ADF&G groundfish statistical area of harvest.


(*5*) Date (mm/dd/yyyy) that delivery was completed.


(*6*) If the delivery is received from a tender, enter the ADF&G vessel registration number of the tender.


(*7*) If delivery received from a catcher vessel, enter the ADF&G vessel registration number of the vessel.


(*8*) Indicate whether the blue logsheet was received from the catcher vessel at the time of catch delivery. If the blue logsheet was not received from the catcher vessel, enter “NO” and select a code from the following table to explain the reason provided by the catcher vessel for not supplying this copy.


(*9*) Gear type of harvester.


(*10*) Total estimated round weight by species (pounds).


(*11*) ADF&G fish ticket number provided to catcher vessel (eLandings assigns an ADF&G fish ticket number to the landing report).


(*12*) For deliveries from catcher vessels directed fishing for pollock in the Bering Sea, indicate whether, prior to the haul, the operator of the catcher vessel moved fishing location primarily to avoid Chinook salmon bycatch.


(B) *Discard or disposition information.* (*1*) The User must record discard or disposition information that occurred on and was reported by a catcher vessel; that occurred on and was reported by a tender vessel; and that occurred prior to, during, and after production of groundfish at the mothership. Discards and dispositions also must be recorded when no groundfish are delivered but the blue DFL is submitted by a catcher vessel containing records of discards or disposition.


(*2*) If groundfish or PSC herring, enter species code, delivery condition code, disposition code, and weight (to the nearest pound), and


(*3*) If PSC halibut, salmon, or crab, enter species code, delivery condition code, disposition code, and count (in numbers of animals).


(ii) *Submittal time limit.* The User for a mothership must submit a landing report containing the information described at paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section for each groundfish delivery from a specific vessel by 2400 hours, A.l.t., of the day following the delivery.


(iii) *Compliance.* By using eLandings, the User for the mothership and the catcher vessel operator or tender vessel operator providing information to the User for the mothership accept the responsibility of and acknowledge compliance with § 679.7(a)(10).


(7) *Registered Buyer landing report.* A person who is issued a Registered Buyer permit under § 679.4(d)(3) and who receives IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish from an IFQ permit holder or who receives CDQ halibut from a CDQ permit holder at any time during the fishing year is required to use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit landing reports with the following information from paragraphs (e)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section):


(i) *Information entered for each IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, and IFQ sablefish delivery.* The User for a Registered Buyer must enter the following information (see paragraphs (e)(7)(i)(A) through (E) of this section) for each IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, and IFQ sablefish delivery into eLandings or other NMFS-approved software:


(A) *User identification.* UserID and password of person assigned for that system.


(B) *Landing date.* Date (mm/dd/yyyy) of the landing.


(C) *Landing location.* Location (port code) of the landing (See Tables 14a, 14b, and 14c to this part).


(D) *Permit numbers.* Permit number of the IFQ permit holder, and any IFQ hired master permit holder, or CDQ hired master permit holder harvesting the fish and permit number of Registered Buyer receiving the IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut.


(E) *Delivery information.* As reported by the IFQ permit holder, IFQ hired master permit holder, or CDQ hired master permit holder including the information in paragraphs (e)(7)(i)(E)(*1*) through (*9*) of this section):


(*1*) Harvesting vessel's ADF&G vessel registration number.


(*2*) Gear code of gear used to harvest IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut.


(*3*) ADF&G fish ticket number(s) for the landing (after the initial eLandings report is submitted, eLandings assigns an ADF&G fish ticket number to the landing report).


(*4*) ADF&G statistical area of harvest.


(*5*) If ADF&G statistical area is bisected by a line dividing two IFQ regulatory areas, provide the IFQ regulatory area of harvest.


(*6*) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(7)(i)(E)(*7*) of this section, initial accurate scale weight(s) (to the nearest pound) made at the time of offloading for IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut sold and retained (where retained includes fish intended for personal use, fish weighed and reloaded for delivery to another processor, and fish landed but rejected at the dock by the Registered Buyer); species codes; delivery condition code; and disposition code for each ADF&G statistical area of harvest.


(*7*) Accurate weight of IFQ sablefish processed product obtained before the offload may be substituted for the initial accurate scale weight provided in paragraph (e)(7)(i)(E)(*6*) of this section, at time of offload, if the vessel operator is a Registered Buyer reporting an IFQ sablefish landing.


(*8*) Indicate whether initial accurate scale weight is given with or without ice and slime. Fish which have been washed prior to weighing or which have been offloaded from refrigerated salt water are not eligible for a 2-percent deduction for ice and slime and must be reported as fish weights without ice and slime. The 2-percent deduction is made by NMFS, not the submitter.


(*9*) Indicate whether IFQ halibut is incidental catch concurrent with legal landing of salmon or concurrent with legal landing of lingcod harvested using dinglebar gear.


(ii) *Signatures for IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish deliveries.* (A) The User for the Registered Buyer must print the completed groundfish landing report (ADF&G electronic groundfish ticket) and the sablefish/halibut IFQ landing receipt. The User must review the autofilled data entry cells to ensure that they are accurate for the landing that is taking place.


(B) The User for the Registered Buyer, plus the IFQ permit holder or the IFQ hired master permit holder or CDQ hired master permit holder, must acknowledge the accuracy of the printed IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish landing receipt, and if necessary, IFQ manual landing report, by entering printed name, signature, and date.


(iii) *Time limits*—(A) *Landing hours.* A landing of IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish may commence only between 0600 hours, A.l.t., and 1800 hours, A.l.t., unless permission to land at a different time is granted in advance by a clearing officer.


(B) *Landing receipt signatures.* The User for the Registered Buyer and the IFQ permit holder, IFQ hired master permit holder, or CDQ hired master permit holder must sign the sablefish/halibut IFQ landing receipt within six hours after all IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, and IFQ sablefish are offloaded from a harvesting vessel and prior to shipment or transfer of the fish from the landing site.


(C) *Landing completion.* The User for the Registered Buyer must submit an IFQ landing report, containing the information described in this paragraph (e)(7), within six hours after all IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, and IFQ sablefish are offloaded from a specific vessel and prior to shipment or transfer of said fish from the landing site.


(iv) *IFQ manual landing report.* See paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.


(8) *Registered Crab Receiver (RCR) IFQ crab landing report.* (i) A person who is issued an RCR permit under § 680.4(i) of this chapter and who receives IFQ crab from a crab IFQ permit holder or crab IFQ hired master is required to use eLandings to submit a landing report to report every landing of IFQ crab and incidental groundfish.


(ii) An RCR using a catcher/processor is required to submit a crab landing report using eLandings in a format approved by NMFS. NMFS will provide format specifications upon request. Interested parties may contact NMFS Alaska Region, Sustainable Fisheries Division, Catch Accounting/Data Quality, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668, telephone 907-586-7228.


(iii) *Information entered for each IFQ crab delivery.* The User for the RCR must submit information described at paragraphs (e)(8)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section into eLandings or other NMFS-approved software for each IFQ crab delivery:


(A) *Permit numbers.* RCR permit number, IFQ permit number, and IPQ permit number, as appropriate.


(B) *Operation type and port code*—(*1*) If a shoreside processor, the port code is pre-filled automatically (see § 679.5(e)(4)).


(*2*) If a catcher/processor, the at-sea operation type is pre-filled automatically.


(*3*) If an SFP and crab delivery is received in port, the at-sea operation type is pre-filled automatically (see § 679.5(e)(4)) and the User must enter the port code from Table 14a to this part.


(*4*) If an SFP and crab delivery is received at sea, the at-sea operation type is pre-filled automatically (see § 679.5(e)(4)) and the User must enter the appropriate crab regional designation (see § 680.40(b)(2)), shown below:


(C) *Delivery information.* As reported by IFQ permit holder.


(*1*) ADF&G vessel registration number of the delivering vessel.


(*2*) Date (mm/dd/yyyy) fishing began.


(*3*) Date (mm/dd/yyyy) of the IFQ crab landing.


(*4*) ADF&G fish ticket number (automatically supplied).


(*5*) ADF&G statistical area of harvest (All ADF&G statistical areas are translated to the NMFS reporting area and the IPHC reporting area by eLandings.).


(*6*) Species code of catch from Table 2 to part 680.


(*7*) Delivery-condition codes of catch from Table 3a to this part.


(*8*) Number of crab retained and sold condition code, product type, size/grade, and sold pounds; and optionally, price per pound.


(*9*) Scale weight of deadloss (to the nearest pound) and scale weight of crab retained for personal use (to the nearest pound). Deadloss and personal use crab that an IPQ holder did not purchase are not debited from the IPQ holder's account.


(D) *Crew and observer information*—(*1*) For crew size, enter the number of licensed crew aboard the vessel, including the operator.


(*2*) Number of observers aboard.


(iv) *Information entered for IFQ crab custom processing landings.* In addition to the information required in paragraph (e)(8)(iii) of this section, if custom processing IFQ crab, the User for the RCR must enter the ADF&G processor code of the person for which the IFQ crab was custom processed.


(v) *Signatures for IFQ crab deliveries.* (A) The User for the RCR must print the completed crab landing report (ADF&G electronic crab ticket) and the crab IFQ landing receipt. The User must review the autofilled data entry cells to ensure that they are accurate for the landing that is taking place.


(B) The User for the Registered Crab Receiver (RCR), plus the IFQ permit holder or IFQ hired master permit holder, must acknowledge the accuracy of the printed IFQ crab landing receipt, and, if necessary, IFQ manual landing report, by entering printed name, signature, and date.


(vi) *Time limits.* (A) Except as indicated in paragraph (e)(8)(vi)(B) of this section, the User for the RCR is required to submit a crab landing report described at this paragraph (e)(8) to NMFS within six hours after all crab is offloaded from the vessel.


(B) For IFQ crab harvested on a catcher/processor, the User for the RCR is required to submit an IFQ crab landing report to NMFS by Tuesday 1200 hours, A.l.t. after the end of each weekly reporting period in which IFQ crab was harvested.


(C) The User for the RCR and the IFQ permit holder or IFQ hired master permit holder must enter printed name and sign the crab IFQ landing receipt within six hours after all crab is offloaded from the harvesting vessel.


(vii) *Landing document retention.* The User must retain each landing report and landing receipt per paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(viii) *IFQ manual landing report for crab.* See paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.


(9) *Shoreside processor or SFP information entered for production report.* The manager of a shoreside processor or SFP that is required to have an FPP under § 679.4(f) must use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software during the fishing year to submit a production report to report daily processor identification information and all groundfish production data. The User must retain a copy of each production report per paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section.


(i) *Contents.* eLandings autofills the following fields when creating a production report for a shoreside processor or SFP: FPP number, company name, ADF&G processor code, User name, email address, and telephone number. The User must review the autofilled cells to ensure that they are accurate for the current report. In addition, the User for the shoreside processor or SFP must enter the following information (see paragraphs (e)(9)(i)(A) through (F) of this section):


(A) *Date.* Reporting date (mm/dd/yyyy).


(B) *Observers.* Number of observers onsite.


(C) *Area of harvest.* Whether harvested in GOA or BSAI.


(D) *Product description.* Species code, product type, and product code of product.


(E) *Product weight.* Enter actual scale weight of product to the nearest pound.


(F) *No production/no deliveries (inactive).* If there was no production or deliveries for the day, mark the “No Production” and/or “No Deliveries” boxes.


(ii) *Submittal time limits*—(A) When active pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, the User for a shoreside processor or SFP must submit a production report by 1200 hours, A.l.t., each day to record the previous day's production information.


(B) If a shoreside processor or SFP using eLandings is not taking deliveries over a weekend, the User or manager may submit the eLandings production report from Saturday and Sunday to NMFS by 1200 hours, A.l.t., on the following Monday.


(10) *Catcher/processor or mothership information entered for production report*—(i) *Catcher/processor.* The operator of a catcher/processor that is issued an FFP under § 679.4 and that harvests groundfish is required to use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit a production report to record and report daily processor identification information, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(ii) *Mothership.* The operator of a mothership that is issued an FFP under § 679.4, or the operator of a CQE floating processor that receives groundfish is required to use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit a production report to record and report daily processor identification information, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(iii) *Contents.* eLandings autofills the following fields when creating a production report for a catcher/processor or mothership: FFP or FPP number, company name, ADF&G processor code, User name, email address, and telephone number. The User must review the autofilled cells to ensure that they are accurate for the current report. In addition, the User for the catcher/processor or mothership must enter the information in paragraphs (e)(10)(iii)(A) through (N) of this section.


(A) *Date.* Reporting date (mm/dd/yyyy).


(B) *Designation.* From Table 14c to this part, enter whether the processor is a catcher/processor = FCP or a mothership = FLD.


(C) *Crew size.* Including operator.


(D) *Management program.* Enter management program and identifying number, if any, in which harvest occurred (see paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section).


(E) *Gear type of harvester.* Enter the gear type used by the harvester.


(F) *Federal Reporting Area of harvest.* Enter the Federal Reporting Area where harvest was made.


(G) *COBLZ or RKCSA.* Indicate whether fishing occurred in COBLZ or RKCSA (if applicable).


(H) *Product description.* Species code, product type, and product code of product.


(I) *Product weight.* Enter product weight in metric tons to the nearest 0.001 mt.


(J) *No production (inactive).* If there was no production for the day, mark the “No Production” box.


(K) *Discard description.* The operator must record the discard or disposition that occurred prior to, during, and after production of groundfish by species code and disposition code of discards and disposition.


(L) *Discard weight.* Daily weight of groundfish and the daily weight of herring PSC to the nearest 0.001 mt.


(M) *PSC numbers*—(*1*) *Non-AFA catcher/processors and all motherships.* Daily number of PSC animals (Pacific salmon, steelhead trout, Pacific halibut, king crabs, and Tanner crabs) by species codes and discard and disposition codes.


(*2*) *AFA and CDQ catcher/processors.* The operator of an AFA catcher/processor or any catcher/processor harvesting pollock CDQ must enter daily the number of non-salmon PSC animals (Pacific halibut, king crabs, and Tanner crabs) by species codes and discard and disposition codes. Salmon PSC animals are entered into the electronic logbook as described in paragraphs (f)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section.


(N) *ADF&G statistical area.* Must be reported beginning January 1, 2009.


(iv) *Submittal time limits*—(A) Except as described in paragraph (e)(10)(iv)(B) of this section, when a mothership is active pursuant to paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section, a catcher/processor longline or pot gear is active pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B) of this section, or a catcher/processor trawl gear is active pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(iv)(B) of this section, the User for a mothership or catcher/processor must submit a production report by 2400 hours, A.l.t., each day to record the previous day's production information.


(B) If a vessel is in the groundfish and halibut fishery full observer coverage category described at § 679.51(a)(2), the User may submit a production report for Friday, Saturday, and Sunday no later than 2400 hours, A.l.t., on the following Monday.


(11) *Printing of landing reports, landing receipts, and production reports*—(i) The User daily must print a paper copy onsite or onboard of:


(A) Each landing report.


(B) If IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut, each sablefish/halibut IFQ landing receipt.


(C) If IFQ crab, each crab IFQ landing receipt.


(D) Each production report.


(ii) In addition to paragraph (e)(11)(i) of this section, the mothership operator or User must print an additional copy of each landing report and provide it to the operator of the catcher vessel delivering groundfish to the mothership by 1200 hours, A.l.t., on Tuesday following the end of applicable weekly reporting period.


(12) *Retention and inspection of landing reports, landing receipts, and production reports*—(i) The User daily must retain a printed paper copy onsite or onboard of:


(A) Each landing report.


(B) If IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut, each sablefish/halibut IFQ landing receipt.


(C) If IFQ crab, each crab IFQ landing receipt.


(D) Each production report.


(ii) The User must make available the printed copies upon request of NMFS observers and authorized officers as indicated at paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(13) *Catcher/processor landing report.* (i) The operator of a catcher/processor placed in the partial observer coverage category under § 679.51(a)(3) must use eLandings or other NMFS-approved software to submit a catcher/processor landing report to NMFS for each fishing trip conducted while that catcher/processor is in the partial observer coverage category.


(ii) The vessel operator must log into eLandings or other NMFS-approved software and provide the information required on the computer screen. Additional instructions for submitting a catcher/processor landing report is on the Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(iii) For purposes of this landing report requirement, the end of a fishing trip is defined in § 679.2, paragraph (3)(iii) of the definition of a fishing trip.


(iv) The vessel operator must submit the catcher/processor landing report to NMFS by 2400 hours, A.l.t., on the day after the end of the fishing trip.


(14) *Tender vessel landing report (“tLandings”)*—(i) *tLandings.* tLandings is an applications software for preparing electronic landing reports for commercial fishery landings to tender vessels.


(ii) *Tender vessel operator responsibility.* The operator of a tender vessel taking delivery of groundfish that is required to be reported to NMFS on a landing report under paragraph (e)(5) of this section must use tLandings to enter information about each landing of groundfish and must provide that information to the User defined under § 679.2.


(iii) *User responsibility.* The User must configure and provide the tender vessel operator with the most recent version of the tLandings tender workstation application prior to the tender vessel taking delivery of groundfish.


(iv) *Information entered for each groundfish delivery.* The tender vessel operator must log into the configured tLandings tender workstation application and provide the information required on the computer screen. Additional instructions for tLandings is on the Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(v) *Submittal time limit.* (A) The tender vessel operator must provide the landing information in tLandings to the User at the commencement of the transfer or offload of groundfish from the tender vessel to the processor.


(B) The User must upload the data recorded in tLandings by the tender vessel to prepare the initial landing report for a catcher vessel delivering to a tender vessel that is required under paragraph (e)(5) of this section within the submittal time limit specified under paragraph (e)(5).


(vi) *Compliance.* By using tLandings, the User and the tender vessel operator providing information to the User accept the responsibility of and acknowledge compliance with § 679.7(a)(10).


(f) *Electronic logbooks (ELBs).* The operator may use a combination of a NMFS-approved ELB (instead of a DFL or DCPL) and eLandings to record and report groundfish information. To satisfy ELB use requirements, the operator after data entry must routinely create the following three products: an ELB logsheet, an ELB discard report, and an ELB data export.


(1) *Responsibility.* The operator of a vessel voluntarily using an ELB must notify the Regional Administrator by fax at 907-586-7465 to notify NMFS that the operator is using a NMFS-approved ELB instead of a DFL or DCPL, prior to participating in any Federal fishery.


(i) *Catcher vessel longline and pot gear ELB.* The operator of a catcher vessel using longline and pot gear may use a NMFS-approved catcher vessel longline or pot gear ELB in lieu of using the NMFS-prescribed catcher vessel longline or pot gear DFL required at paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(ii) *Catcher/processor longline and pot gear ELB.* Except for catcher/processors subject to § 679.100(b), the operator of a catcher/processor using longline or pot gear may use a combination of a NMFS-approved catcher/processor longline and pot gear ELB and eLandings to record and report groundfish information. The operator may use a NMFS-approved catcher/processor longline and pot gear ELB to record daily processor identification information and catch-by-set information. In eLandings, the operator must record daily processor identification, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(iii) *Catcher vessel trawl gear ELB.* The operator of a catcher vessel using trawl gear may use a NMFS-approved catcher vessel trawl gear ELB in lieu of using the NMFS-prescribed catcher vessel trawl gear DFL required at paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(iv) *Catcher/processor trawl gear ELB.* Except as described in paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor using trawl gear may use a combination of a NMFS-approved catcher/processor trawl gear ELB and eLandings to record and report groundfish information. In the ELB, the operator may enter processor identification information and catch-by-haul information. In eLandings, the operator must enter processor identification, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(v) *Mothership ELB.* The operator of a mothership may use a combination of a NMFS-approved mothership ELB and eLandings to record and report groundfish information. The operator may use a NMFS-approved mothership ELB to record daily processor identification information and catcher vessel and tender vessel groundfish delivery information. In eLandings, the operator must record daily processor identification, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data.


(vi) If using a NMFS-approved ELB, the operator is not required to quarterly submit logsheets to OLE.


(vii) *AFA and CDQ trawl catcher/processors.* The operator of an AFA catcher/processor or any catcher/processor harvesting pollock CDQ must use a combination of NMFS-approved catcher/processor trawl gear ELB and eLandings to record and report groundfish and PSC information. In the ELB, the operator must enter processor identification information; catch-by-haul information; prohibited species discard or disposition data for all salmon species in each haul; and indicate whether, prior to the haul, the operator moved fishing location primarily to avoid Chinook salmon bycatch. In eLandings, the operator must enter processor identification, groundfish production data, and groundfish and prohibited species discard or disposition data for all prohibited species except salmon.


(viii) *Longline catcher/processor subsector.* The operator of a catcher/processor subject to § 679.100(b) must use a NMFS-approved catcher/processor longline and pot gear ELB to record processor identification information, catch-by-set information, and, if required to weigh Pacific cod on a NMFS-approved scale, the total Pacific cod weight from the scale for each set. This requirement applies for the entire year that the vessel is subject to § 679.100(b) and operating as a catcher/processor using either longline or pot gear.


(ix) *Catcher/processors and motherships required to weigh catch on NMFS-approved scales.* Catcher/processors and motherships required to weigh catch on a NMFS-approved scale must use a NMFS-approved ELB. The vessel operator must ensure that each scale is tested as specified in § 679.28(b)(3) and that the following information from all scale tests, including failed tests, is reported within 24 hours of the testing using the ELB:


(A) The weight of test material from the observer platform scale;


(B) The total weight of the test material as recorded by the scale being tested;


(C) Percent error as determined by subtracting the known weight of the test material from the weight recorded on the scale being tested, dividing that amount by the known weight of the test material, and multiplying by 100; and


(D) The time, to the nearest minute A.l.t. when testing began.


(2) *Requirements for using an ELB*—(i) *Use a NMFS-approved ELB.* The operator must use only a NMFS-approved ELB. The Regional Administrator maintains a list of approved ELBs on the Alaska Region NMFS website at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov* (see also § 679.28(h) for approval of vendor software).


(ii) *Reporting groundfish by ELB.* If the User is unable to submit commercial fishery information due to hardware, software, or Internet failure for a period longer than the required reporting time, contact NMFS Inseason Management at (907) 586-7228 for instructions. When the hardware, software, or Internet is restored, the User must enter this same information into the electronic logbook (ELB) or other NMFS-approved software.


(iii) *Enter all required information into the ELB*—(A) *Inactive.* The operator must enter all required information, if inactive (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section).


(B) *Active.* The operator must enter all required information, if active (see paragraph (c)(3), (c)(4), or (c)(6) of this section, as appropriate).


(*1*) *Recording time limits.* The time limits for recording applicable information in the ELBs are the same as the recording time limits for DFLs and DCPLs in paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(6) of this section.


(*2*) Daily complete ELB data entry and printing of copies as indicated in paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section.


(iv) *Regularly backup ELB data.* The operator must regularly backup ELB data to ensure that data are not lost in the event of hardware or software problems.


(v) *Correct errors in ELB data.* If after an ELB discard report and ELB logsheet are printed, an error is found in the data, the operator must make any necessary changes to the data, print a new copy of the ELB discard report and ELB logsheet, and export the revised file to NMFS. The operator must retain both the original and revised ELB reports.


(3) *Printed copies.* Upon completion of ELB data entry each day, the operator must print the following information (see paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section) in the NMFS-specified format:


(i) *ELB logsheet.* (A) Print a copy of an ELB logsheet when a vessel is active, by 2400 hours, A.l.t. each day to record the previous day's ELB information.


(B) Print one ELB logsheet to describe a continuous period of inactivity, when a vessel is inactive.


(C) Print a copy of the ELB logsheet for the observer's use, if an observer is onboard the vessel, by 2400 hours, A.l.t., each day to record the previous day's ELB information.


(ii) *ELB discard report.* (A) Print a copy of an ELB discard report upon completion of each fishing trip or each offload of fish.


(B) If an observer is present, print a copy of the ELB discard report for the observer's use upon completion of each fishing trip or each offload of fish.


(4) *Signatures*—(i) *ELB logsheet.* The operator daily must sign and date each printed ELB logsheet by 2400 hours, A.l.t. each day to record the previous day's ELB information. The signature of the operator is verification of acceptance of the responsibility required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(ii) *ELB discard report.* The operator daily must sign and date each printed ELB discard report upon completion of each fishing trip or each offload of fish. The signature of the operator is verification of acceptance of the responsibility required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(5) *Submittal time limits.* (i) The operator of a catcher vessel using an ELB must upon delivery of catch submit the ELB discard report to the mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP.


(ii) The operator or manager of a buying station or tender vessel that receives groundfish catch from a catcher vessel using an ELB must upon delivery of catch submit the ELB discard report to the mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP, and submit the ELB data export directly to the Regional Administrator or through the mothership, shoreside processor, or SFP.


(6) *Retention.* The operator must keep a signed copy of each ELB logsheet and each ELB discard report, filed in sequence for immediate access by authorized personnel as described at paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(7) *ELB data submission*—(i) *Catcher/processors.* The operator of a catcher/processor must transmit ELB data directly to NMFS online through eLandings or other NMFS-approved data transmission mechanism, by 2400 hours, A.l.t., each day to record the previous day's hauls.


(ii) *Catcher vessels.* The operator of a catcher vessel must transmit ELB data directly to NMFS as an email attachment or to NMFS through a shoreside processor, SFP, or mothership who received his/her groundfish catch. Through a prior agreement with the catcher vessel, the operator of a mothership or the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP will forward the ELB data transfer to NMFS as an email attachment within 24 hours of completing receipt of the catcher vessel's catch.


(8) *Return receipt.* (i) Upon receiving an ELB data export, NMFS will generate a dated return-receipt to confirm receipt of the ELB data. If errors exist in the data transmitted to NMFS, the receipt will identify the errors. If errors are identified, the operator must correct the errors and send a revised transmission to NMFS which will then confirm acceptance of the ELB data.


(ii) The operator must retain the NMFS return receipt as described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.


(iii) If a return receipt from NMFS is not received within 24 hours, the operator of the catcher vessel, the operator of a catcher/processor, the operator of the mothership, or the manager of the shoreside processor or SFP forwarding the ELB data export for the operator of the catcher vessel, must contact NMFS by telephone at 907-586-7228 or fax at 907-586-7131 for instructions.


(g) *Product transfer report (PTR)*—(1) *General requirements.* Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, the operator or manager must record on a PTR those species that are listed in Tables 2a and 2c to this part when those species are transferred out of the facility or off the vessel and may also record species listed in Table 2d to this part. For a comparison of forms used for shipping, transporting, or transferring fish or fish product, see Table 13 to this part.


(i) *Groundfish and donated prohibited species.* The operator of a mothership or catcher/processor or the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP must complete and submit a separate PTR for each shipment of groundfish and donated prohibited species caught in groundfish fisheries. A PTR is not required to accompany a shipment. 


(ii) *IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, and CDQ halibut.* A Registered Buyer must submit a separate PTR for each shipment of halibut or sablefish for which the Registered Buyer submitted an IFQ landing report or was required to submit an IFQ landing report. A PTR is not required to accompany a shipment.


(iii) *CR crab.* A Registered Crab Receiver (RCR) must submit a separate PTR for each shipment of crab for which the RCR submitted a CR crab landing report or was required to submit a CR crab landing report. A PTR is not required to accompany a shipment.


(2) *Exceptions*—(i) *Bait sales (non-IFQ groundfish only).* During one calendar day, the operator or manager may aggregate and record on one PTR the individual sales or shipments of non-IFQ groundfish to vessels for bait purposes during the day recording the amount of such bait product shipped from a vessel or facility that day.


(ii) *Retail sales*—(A) *IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, CDQ halibut, and non-IFQ groundfish.* During one calendar day, the operator, manager, or Registered Buyer may aggregate and record on one PTR the amount of transferred retail product of IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, CDQ halibut, and non-IFQ groundfish if each sale weighs less than 10 lb or 4.5 kg.


(B) *CR crab.* During one calendar day, the RCR may aggregate and record on one PTR the amount of transferred retail product of CR crab if each sale weighs less than 100 lb or 45 kg.


(iii) *Wholesale sales (non-IFQ groundfish only).* The operator or manager may aggregate and record on one PTR, wholesale sales of non-IFQ groundfish by species when recording the amount of such wholesale species leaving a vessel or facility in one calendar day, if invoices detailing destinations for all of the product are available for inspection by an authorized officer.


(iv) *Dockside sales.*

(A) A person holding a valid IFQ permit, or IFQ hired master permit, and a Registered Buyer permit may conduct a dockside sale of IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish with a person who has not been issued a Registered Buyer permit after all IFQ halibut and IFQ sablefish have been landed and reported in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.


(B) A person holding a valid halibut CDQ hired master permit and Registered Buyer permit may conduct a dockside sale of CDQ halibut with a person who has not been issued a Registered Buyer permit after all CDQ halibut have been landed and reported in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section.


(C) A Registered Buyer conducting dockside sales must issue a receipt to each individual receiving IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish in lieu of a PTR. This receipt must include:


(*1*) Date of sale;


(*2*) Registered Buyer permit number;


(*3*) Weight by product of the IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut or IFQ sablefish transferred.


(D) A Registered Buyer must maintain a copy of each dockside sales receipt as described in paragraph (l) of this section.


(v) *Transfer directly from the landing site to a processing facility (CDQ halibut, IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab only).* A PTR is not required for transportation of unprocessed IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, CDQ halibut, or CR crab directly from the landing site to a facility for processing, provided the following conditions are met:


(A) A copy of the IFQ landing report receipt (Internet receipt) documenting the IFQ landing accompanies the offloaded IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut while in transit.


(B) A copy of the CR crab landing report receipt (Internet receipt) documenting the IFQ landing accompanies the offloaded CR crab while in transit.


(C) A copy of the IFQ landing report or CR crab landing report receipt is available for inspection by an authorized officer.


(D) The Registered Buyer submitting the IFQ landing report or RCR submitting the CR crab landing report completes a PTR for each shipment from the processing facility pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section.


(3) *Time limits and submittal.* The operator of a mothership or catcher/processor, the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP, the Registered Buyer, or RCR must:


(i) Record all product transfer information on a PTR within 2 hours of the completion of the shipment.


(ii) Submit a PTR by facsimile or electronic file to OLE, Juneau, AK (907-586-7313), by 1200 hours, A.l.t., on the Tuesday following the end of the applicable weekly reporting period in which the shipment occurred.


(iii) If any information on the original PTR changes prior to the first destination of the shipment, submit a revised PTR by facsimile or electronic file to OLE, Juneau, AK (907-586-7313), by 1200 hours, A.l.t., on the Tuesday following the end of the applicable weekly reporting period in which the change occurred.


(4) *Required information.* The operator of a mothership or catcher/processor, the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP, the Registered Buyer, or RCR must include the following information on a PTR:


(i) *Original or revised PTR.* Whether a submittal is an original or revised PTR.


(ii) *Shipper information.* Name, telephone number, and facsimile number of the representative. According to the following table:


(iii) *Transfer information.* Using descriptions from the following table, enter receiver information, date and time of product transfer, location of product transfer (e.g., port, position coordinates, or city), mode of transportation, and intended route:



(iv) *Products shipped.* The operator, manager, Registered Buyer, or RCR must record the following information for each product shipped:


(A) *Species code and product code.* (*1*) For non-IFQ groundfish, IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, and CDQ halibut, the species code and product code (Tables 1 and 2 to this part).


(*2*) For CR crab, the species code and product code (Tables 1 and 2 to 50 CFR part 680).


(B) *Species weight.* Use only if recording 2 or more species with 2 or more product types contained within the same production unit. Enter the actual scale weight of each product of each species to the nearest kilogram or pound (indicate which). If not applicable, enter “n/a” in the species weight column. If using more than one line to record species in one carton, use a brace “}” to tie the carton information together.


(C) *Number of units.* Total number of production units (blocks, trays, pans, individual fish, boxes, or cartons; if iced, enter number of totes or containers).


(D) *Unit weight.* Unit weight (average weight of single production unit as listed in “No. of Units” less packing materials) for each species and product code in kilograms or pounds (indicate which).


(E) *Total weight.* Total weight for each species and product code of shipment less packing materials in kilograms or pounds (indicate which).


(F) *Total or partial offload.* (*1*) If a mothership or catcher/processor, the operator must indicate whether fish or fish products are left onboard the vessel (partial offload) after the shipment is complete.


(*2*) If a partial offload, for the products remaining on board after the transfer, the operator must enter: Species code, product code, and total product weight to the nearest kilogram or pound (indicate which) for each product. 


(h) *Check-in/Check-out report*—(1) *Requirement.* Except as described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the operator of a catcher/processor or mothership and manager of a shoreside processor or SFP must submit to NMFS a check-in report (BEGIN message) prior to becoming active and a check-out report (CEASE message) for every check-in report submitted. The check-in report and check-out report must be submitted by fax to 907-586-7131.


(2) *Exceptions*—(i) *VMS onboard.* The operator of a catcher/processor or mothership is not required to submit to NMFS a check-in report or check-out report if the vessel is carrying onboard a transmitting VMS that meets the requirements of § 679.28(f).


(ii) *Two adjacent reporting areas.* If on the same day a catcher/processor intends to fish in two adjacent reporting areas (an action which would require submittal of check-out reports and check-in reports multiple times a day when crossing back and forth across a reporting area boundary), and the two reporting areas have on that day and time an identical fishing status for every species, the operator must:


(A) Submit to NMFS a check-in report to the first area prior to entering the first reporting area, and


(B) Submit to NMFS a check-in report to the second area prior to entering the second reporting area.


(C) Remain within 10 nautical miles (18.5 km) of the boundary described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section.


(D) If the catcher/processor proceeds in the second reporting area beyond 10 nautical miles (18.5 km) of the boundary between the two areas, the operator must submit a check-out report from the first reporting area. The operator must submit a check-out report from the second area upon exiting that reporting area.


(3) *Transit through reporting areas.* The operator of a catcher/processor or mothership is not required to submit a check-in or check-out report if the vessel is transiting through a reporting area and is not fishing or receiving fish.


(4) *Time limits and submittal.* Except as indicated in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, the operator or manager must submit a check-in report and a check-out report according to the following table:


(5) *Required information.* The operator of a catcher/processor or mothership and the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP must record the information in the following table on a check-in report and a check-out report, as appropriate.


(i) *Weekly production report (WPR).* The WPR is removed from use. Instead of a WPR, the operator of a mothership or catcher/processor and the manager of a shoreside processor or SFP must submit all landings information, production information, and discard and disposition information using eLandings or other NMFS-approved software (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(j) [Reserved]


(k) *U.S. Vessel Activity Report (VAR).* For a comparison of forms used for shipping, transporting, or transferring fish or fish product, *see* Table 13 to this part.


(1) *Fish or fish product onboard.* Except as noted in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, the operator of a catcher vessel greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA, a catcher/processor, or a mothership required to hold a Federal fisheries permit issued under this part and carrying fish or fish product onboard must complete and submit a VAR by facsimile or electronic file to OLE, Juneau, AK (907-586-7313) before the vessel crosses the seaward boundary of the EEZ off Alaska or crosses the U.S.-Canadian international boundary between Alaska and British Columbia.


(2) *Combination of non-IFQ groundfish with IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish or CR crab.* If a vessel is carrying non-IFQ groundfish and IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish or CR crab, the operator must submit a VAR in addition to an IFQ Departure Report required by paragraph (l)(4) of this section.


(3) *Revised VAR.* If fish or fish products are landed at a port other than the one specified on the VAR, the operator must submit a revised VAR showing the actual port of landing before any fish are offloaded.


(4) *Exemption: IFQ Departure Report.* A VAR is not required if a vessel is carrying only IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab onboard and the operator has submitted an IFQ Departure Report required by paragraph (l)(4) of this section.


(5) *Information required.* (i) Whether original or revised VAR.


(ii) Name and Federal fisheries permit number of vessel or RCR permit number.


(iii) Type of vessel (whether catcher vessel, catcher/processor, or mothership).


(iv) Name, daytime telephone number (including area code), and facsimile number and COMSAT number (if available) of representative.


(v) *Return report.* “Return,” for purposes of this paragraph, means returning to Alaska. If the vessel is crossing the seaward boundary of the EEZ off Alaska or crossing the U.S.-Canadian international boundary between Alaska and British Columbia into U.S. waters, indicate a “return” report and enter:


(A) Intended Alaska port of landing (*see* Table 14a to this part);


(B) Estimated date and time (hour and minute, Greenwich mean time) the vessel will cross the boundary; and


(C) The estimated position coordinates in latitude and longitude where the vessel will cross.


(vi) *Depart report.* “Depart” means leaving Alaska. If the vessel is crossing the seaward boundary of the EEZ off Alaska and moving out of the EEZ or crossing the U.S.-Canadian international boundary between Alaska and British Columbia and moving into Canadian waters, indicate a “depart” report and enter:


(A) The intended U.S. port of landing or country other than the United States (*see* Table 14b to this part);


(B) Estimated date and time (hour and minute, Greenwich mean time) the vessel will cross the boundary; and


(C) The estimated position coordinates in latitude and longitude where the vessel will cross.


(vii) *The Russian Zone.* Indicate whether the vessel is returning from fishing in the Russian Zone or is departing to fish in the Russian Zone.


(viii) *Fish or fish products.* For all fish or fish products (including non-groundfish) on board the vessel, enter:


(A) Harvest zone code;


(B) Species codes;


(C) Product codes; and


(D) Total fish product weight in lbs or to the nearest 0.001 mt (2.20 lb).


(l) *IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab R&R.* In addition to the R&R requirements in this section, in 50 CFR part 680 with respect to CR crab, and as prescribed in the annual management measures published in the _Federal Register_ pursuant to § 300.62 of this title, the following reports and authorizations are required, when applicable: IFQ Prior Notice of Landing, Product Transfer Report (*see* § 679.5(g)), IFQ landing report, IFQ Transshipment Authorization, and IFQ Departure Report. 


(1) *IFQ Prior Notice of Landing (PNOL)*—(i) *Time limits and submittal.* (A) Except as provided in paragraph (l)(1)(iv) of this section, the operator of any vessel making an IFQ landing must notify OLE, Juneau, AK, no fewer than 3 hours before landing IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish, unless permission to commence an IFQ landing within 3 hours of notification is granted by a clearing officer. 


(B) A PNOL must be made to the toll-free telephone number 800-304-4846 or to 907-586-7163 between the hours of 0600 hours, A.l.t., and 2400 hours, A.l.t. 


(ii) *Revision to PNOL.* The operator of any vessel wishing to make an IFQ landing before the date and time (A.l.t.) reported in the PNOL or later than 2 hours after the date and time (A.l.t.) reported in the PNOL must submit a new PNOL as described in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section. 


(iii) *Information required.* A PNOL must include the following: 


(A) Vessel name and ADF&G vessel registration number; 


(B) Port of landing and port code from Tables 14a and 14b to this part;


(C) Exact location of landing within the port (*i.e.,* dock name, harbor name, facility name, or geographical coordinates); 


(D) The date and time (A.l.t.) that the landing will take place; 


(E) Species and estimated weight (in pounds) of the IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut or IFQ sablefish that will be landed; 


(F) IFQ regulatory area(s) in which the IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish were harvested;


(G) IFQ permit number(s) that will be used to land the IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish;


(H) Gear type used to harvest the IFQ sablefish or IFQ halibut (see Table 15 to this part); and


(I) If using longline pot gear in the GOA or pot gear in the BSAI, report the number of pots set, the number of pots lost, and the number of pots left deployed on the fishing grounds.


(iv) *Exemption*—(A) *Halibut.* An IFQ landing of halibut of 500 lb or less of IFQ weight determined pursuant to § 679.40(h) and concurrent with a legal landing of salmon harvested using hand troll gear or power troll gear is exempt from the PNOL required by this section.


(B) *Lingcod.* An IFQ landing of halibut of 500 lb or less of IFQ weight determined pursuant to § 679.40(h) and concurrent with a legal landing of lingcod harvested using dinglebar gear is exempt from the PNOL required by this section.


(2) *IFQ landing*—(i) *Remain at landing site.* Once the landing has commenced, the IFQ permit holder, the IFQ hired master permit holder, or the CDQ hired master permit holder, and the harvesting vessel may not leave the landing site until the IFQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CDQ halibut account is properly debited (see § 679.40(h)).


(ii) *No movement of IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish.* The offloaded IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish may not be moved from the landing site until the IFQ Landing Report is completed through eLandings or other NMFS-approved software and the IFQ permit holder's or CDQ permit holder's account is properly debited (see § 679.40(h)).


(iii) *Single offload site*—(A) *IFQ halibut and CDQ halibut.* The vessel operator who lands IFQ halibut or CDQ halibut must continuously and completely offload at a single offload site all halibut onboard the vessel.


(B) *IFQ sablefish.* The vessel operator who lands IFQ sablefish must continuously and completely offload at a single offload site all sablefish onboard the vessel.


(3) *Transshipment authorization.* For a comparison of forms used for shipping, transporting, or transferring fish or fish product, *see* Table 13 to this part.


(i) No person may transship processed IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab between vessels without authorization by a local clearing officer. Authorization from a local clearing officer must be obtained for each instance of transshipment at least 24 hours before the transshipment is intended to commence. 


(ii) *Information required.* To obtain a Transshipment Authorization, the vessel operator must provide the following information to the clearing officer: 


(A) Date and time (A.l.t.) of transshipment; 


(B) Location of transshipment; 


(C) Name and ADF&G vessel registration number of vessel offloading transshipment; 


(D) Name of vessel receiving the transshipment; 


(E) Product destination; 


(F) Species and product type codes; 


(G) Total product weight; 


(H) Time (A.l.t.) and date of the request; 


(I) Name, telephone number, FAX number (if any) for the person making the request. 


(4) *IFQ departure report.* For a comparison of forms used for shipping, transporting, or transferring fish or fish product, *see* Table 13 to this part.


(i) *General requirements*—(A) *Time limit and submittal.* A vessel operator who intends to make a landing of IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab at any location other than in an IFQ regulatory area for halibut and sablefish or in a crab fishery for CR crab (*see* Table 1 to part 680) in the State of Alaska must submit an IFQ Departure Report, by telephone, to OLE, Juneau, AK, (800-304-4846 or 907-586-7163) between the hours of 0600 hours, A.l.t., and 2400 hours, A.l.t.


(B) *Completion of fishing.* A vessel operator must submit an IFQ Departure Report after completion of all fishing and prior to departing the waters of the EEZ adjacent to the jurisdictional waters of the State of Alaska, the territorial sea of the State of Alaska, or the internal waters of the State of Alaska when IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab are on board.


(C) *Permit*—(*1*) *Registered Crab Receiver permit.* A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report for CR crab must have a Registered Crab Receiver permit.


(*2*) *Registered Buyer permit.* A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report for IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish must have a Registered Buyer permit.


(D) *First landing of any species.* A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report must submit IFQ landing reports for all IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, and IFQ sablefish on board at the same time and place as the first landing of any IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, or IFQ sablefish.


(E) *Permits on board.* (*1*) A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report to document IFQ halibut or IFQ sablefish must have one or more IFQ permit holders or IFQ hired master permit holders on board with a combined IFQ balance equal to or greater than all IFQ halibut and IFQ sablefish on board the vessel.


(*2*) A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report to document CDQ halibut must ensure that one or more CDQ hired master permit holders are onboard with enough remaining halibut CDQ balance to harvest amounts of CDQ halibut equal to or greater than all CDQ halibut onboard.


(*3*) A vessel operator submitting an IFQ Departure Report to document CR crab must have one or more permit holders on board with a combined CR balance equal to or greater than all CR crab on board the vessel.


(ii) *Required information.* When submitting an IFQ Departure Report, the vessel operator must provide the following information:


(A) Intended date, time (A.l.t.), and location of landing;


(B) Vessel name and ADF&G vessel registration number;


(C) Vessel operator's name and Registered Buyer permit or Registered Crab Receiver permit number;


(D) Halibut IFQ, halibut CDQ, sablefish IFQ, and CR crab permit numbers of IFQ and CDQ permit holders on board;


(E) *Area of harvest.* (*1*) If IFQ or CDQ halibut, then halibut regulatory areas (*see* Figure 15 to this part).


(*2*) If IFQ sablefish, then sablefish regulatory areas (*see* Figure 14 to this part).


(*3*) If CR crab, then the crab rationalization fishery code (*see* Table 1 to part 680).


(F) Estimated total weight as appropriate of IFQ halibut, CDQ halibut, IFQ sablefish, or CR crab on board (lb/kg/mt).


(iii) *Revision to Departure Report.* A vessel operator who intends to make an IFQ landing at a location different from the location named on the IFQ Departure report must submit a revised report naming the new location at least 12 hours in advance of the offload. Revisions must be submitted by telephone, to OLE, Juneau, AK, (800-304-4846 or 907-586-7163) between the hours of 0600 hours, A.l.t., and 2400 hours, A.l.t. 


(5) *Landing verification, inspection and record retention*—(i) *Verification and inspection.* Each IFQ landing and all fish retained on board the vessel making an IFQ landing are subject to verification and inspection by authorized officers. 


(ii) *Record retention.* The IFQ permit holder, IFQ hired master permit holder, or CDQ hired master permit holder must retain a legible copy of all Landing Report receipts, and the Registered Buyer must retain a copy of all reports and receipts required by this section. All retained records must be available for inspection by an authorized officer:


(A) Until the end of the fishing year during which the records were made and for as long thereafter as fish or fish products recorded are retained onboard the vessel or at the facility; and 


(B) Upon request of an authorized officer for 3 years after the end of the fishing year during which the records were made. 


(6) *Sampling*—(i) Each IFQ landing and all fish retained onboard a vessel making an IFQ landing are subject to sampling by NMFS-authorized observers. 


(ii) Each IFQ halibut landing or CDQ halibut landing is subject to sampling for biological information by persons authorized by the IPHC. 


(7) *IFQ cost recovery program*—(i) *IFQ Registered Buyer Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report (IFQ Buyer Report)*—(A) *Applicability.* An IFQ Registered Buyer that operates as a shoreside processor and receives and purchases IFQ landings of sablefish or halibut or CDQ landings of halibut must submit annually to NMFS a complete IFQ Buyer Report as described in this paragraph (l) and as provided by NMFS for each reporting period, as described at § 679.5(1)(7)(i)(E), in which the Registered Buyer receives IFQ fish or CDQ halibut.


(B) *Due date.* A complete IFQ Buyer Report must be postmarked or received by the Regional Administrator not later than October 15 following the reporting period in which the IFQ Registered Buyer receives the IFQ fish or CDQ halibut.


(C) *Information required.* A complete IFQ Buyer Report must include the following information as instructed on the report form at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov/ram:*

(*1*) *IFQ Registered Buyer identification.*

(*2*) *Pounds purchased and values paid.* (*i*) The monthly total weights, represented in IFQ equivalent pounds by IFQ species or CDQ halibut, that were landed at the landing port location and purchased by the IFQ Registered Buyer;


(*ii*) The monthly total gross ex-vessel value, in U.S. dollars, of IFQ pounds, by IFQ species or CDQ halibut, that were landed at the landing port location and purchased by the IFQ Registered Buyer;


(*3*) *Value paid for price adjustments*—(*i*) *Retro-payments.* The monthly total U.S. dollar amount of any retro-payments (correlated by IFQ species or CDQ halibut, landing month(s), and month of payment) made in the current year to IFQ, or to CDQ halibut permit holders for landings made during the previous calendar year;


(*ii*) *Electronic submittal.* Certification, including the NMFS ID and password of the IFQ Registered Buyer; or


(*iii*) *Non-electronic submittal.* Certification, including the printed name and signature of the individual submitting the IFQ Buyer Report on behalf of the Registered Buyer, and date of signature.


(D) *Submittal.* If applicable, the Registered Buyer must complete an IFQ Buyer Report and submit by mail or FAX to NMFS at the address provided on the form, or electronically to NMFS online at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov/ram.*

(E) *Reporting period.* The reporting period of the IFQ Buyer Report shall extend from October 1 through September 30 of the following year, inclusive.


(ii) *IFQ Permit Holder Fee Submission Form*—(A) *Applicability.* An IFQ permit holder who holds an IFQ permit against which a landing was made or an RQE that holds RFQ must submit to NMFS a complete IFQ Permit Holder Fee Submission Form provided by NMFS.


(B) *Due date and submittal.* A complete IFQ Permit Holder Fee Submission Form must be postmarked or received by the Regional Administrator not later than January 31 following the calendar year in which any IFQ landing was made.


(C) *Completed application.* NMFS will process an IFQ Permit Holder Fee Submission Form provided that a paper or electronic form is completed by the IFQ permit holder or an RQE that holds RFQ, with all applicable fields accurately filled in, and all required additional documentation is attached.


(D) *IFQ landing summary and estimated fee liability.* NMFS will provide to an IFQ permit holder and an RQE that holds RFQ an IFQ Landing and Estimated Fee Liability page as required by § 679.45(a)(2). The IFQ permit holder must either accept the accuracy of the NMFS estimated fee liability associated with his or her IFQ landings for each IFQ permit, or calculate a revised IFQ fee liability in accordance with paragraph (l)(7)(ii)(E) of this section. The IFQ permit holder may calculate a revised fee liability for all or part of his or her IFQ landings.


(E) *Revised fee liability calculation.* To calculate a revised fee liability, an IFQ permit holder must multiply the IFQ percentage in effect by either the IFQ actual ex-vessel value or the IFQ standard ex-vessel of the IFQ landing. If parts of the landing have different values, the permit holder must apply the appropriate values to the different parts of the landings.


(F) *Documentation.* If NMFS requests in writing that a permit holder submit documentation establishing the factual basis for a revised IFQ fee liability, the permit holder must submit adequate documentation by the 30th day after the date of such request. Examples of such documentation regarding initial sales transactions of IFQ landings include valid fish tickets, sales receipts, or check stubs that clearly identify the IFQ landing amount, species, date, time, and ex-vessel value or price.


(G) *Reporting period.* The reporting period of the IFQ Permit Holder Fee Submission Form shall extend from January 1 to December 31 of the year prior to the January 31 due date.


(8) An annual report on the halibut and sablefish IFQ activity must be submitted by the CQE as required at § 679.5(t).


(9) *Recreational Quota Entity Program annual report.* An annual report on RQE activities must be submitted to NMFS by the RQE as required at § 679.5(v).


(10) A report on annual IFQ regulatory areas 4B, 4C, and 4D Halibut IFQ transfer activities must be submitted to NMFS and the Council by a CDQ group as required at § 679.5(w).


(m) *CDQ Vessel Registration*—(1) *Registration.* The representative for a CDQ group must register each vessel that is to receive the exemption from the LLP license requirements at § 679.4(k)(2)(vi) through the CDQ vessel registration system available on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site (*http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov*). The CDQ group representative must log into the CDQ vessel registration system and provide the information required on the computer screen. NMFS will add each vessel successfully registered to the CDQ vessel registration list on the NMFS Alaska Region Web site at *http://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(2) *Responsibility.* The CDQ group representative must successfully complete vessel registration through the CDQ vessel registration system before the vessel may be used to conduct groundfish CDQ fishing under § 679.32(c)(3)(iii) without an LLP license. By using the CDQ group's NMFS ID and password and submitting the vessel registration request, the CDQ group representative certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(3) *LLP exemption letter.* The CDQ vessel registration system will provide the CDQ group representative with an LLP exemption letter documenting that the registered vessel is exempt from the LLP when groundfish CDQ fishing. The CDQ group representative must provide a copy of the LLP exemption letter to the operator of the registered vessel named in the LLP exemption letter. The operator of the registered vessel named in the LLP exemption letter must maintain a legible copy of the LLP exemption letter on board the registered vessel at all times when that vessel is groundfish CDQ fishing.


(4) *Removing a vessel from the CDQ vessel registration list.* A CDQ group representative may remove a vessel from the CDQ vessel registration system by logging into the online system and following the applicable instructions. A CDQ group representative may remove a registered vessel from the CDQ vessel registration list at any time but must certify at the time of removal that the vessel operator had been given notice by the CDQ group that the vessel is going to be removed from the list and that the vessel is not groundfish CDQ fishing at the time of removal. A vessel that is successfully removed from the CDQ vessel registration list is no longer exempt from the LLP requirements under § 679.4(k).


(n) *CDQ and PSQ transfers*— 


(1) *CDQ or PSQ transfer.* NMFS will process a request for CDQ or PSQ transfer between CDQ groups provided that the requirements of this paragraph are met.


(2) *Completed application.* A paper or electronic request form must be completed with all information fields accurately filled in by transferors and transferees, and all required additional documentation must be attached.


(3) *Certification of transferor*—(i) *Non-electronic submittal.* The transferor's designated representative must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete. The transferor's designated representative must submit the paper application as indicated on the application.


(ii) *Electronic submittal.* The transferor's designated representative must log into the system and create a transfer request as indicated on the computer screen. By using the transferor's NMFS ID, password, and Transfer Key and submitting the transfer request, the designated representative certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(4) *Certification of transferee*—(i) *Non-electronic submittal.* The transferee's designated representative must sign and date the application certifying that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(ii) *Electronic submittal.* The transferee's designated representative must log into the system and create a transfer request as indicated on the computer screen. By using the transferee's NMFS ID, password, and Transfer Key and submitting the transfer request, the designated representative certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(o) [Reserved]


(p) *Commercial Operator's Annual Report (COAR)*—(1) *Requirement.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must annually complete and submit to ADF&G the appropriate Forms A through M and COAR certification page for each year in which the mothership or catcher/processor was issued a Federal Fisheries permit. The owner of a mothership must include all fish received and processed during the year, including fish received from an associated tender vessel. The ADF&G COAR is further described under Alaska Administrative Code (5 AAC 39.130) (see § 679.3 (b)(2)).


(2) *Time limit and submittal of COAR.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must submit to ADF&G the appropriate Forms A through M and COAR certification page by April 1 of the year following the year for which the report is required to the following address:


ADF&G Division of Commercial Fisheries, Attn: COAR, P.O. Box 25526, Juneau, AK 99802-5526


(3) *Information required, certification page.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must:


(i) Enter the company name and address, including street, city, state, and zip code; also seasonal mailing address, if applicable.


(ii) Enter the vessel name and ADF&G processor code.


(iii) Check YES or NO to indicate whether fishing activity was conducted during the appropriate year.


(iv) If response to paragraph (p)(3)(iii) of this section is YES, complete the applicable forms of the COAR (see table 18 to this part) and complete and sign the certification page.


(v) If response to paragraph (p)(3)(iii) of this section is NO, complete and sign only the certification page.


(vi) Sign and enter printed or typed name, e-mail address, title, telephone number, and FAX number of owner.


(vii) Enter printed or typed name, e-mail address, and telephone number of alternate contact.


(4) *Buying information (exvessel), Forms A (1-3), C (1-2), E, G, I (1-2), and K*—(i) *Requirement.* The owner of a mothership (if the first purchaser of raw fish) must complete and submit the appropriate COAR buying forms (A (1-3), C (1-2), E, G, I (1-2), and K) for each species purchased from fishermen during the applicable year.


(ii) *Buying information required.* The owner of the mothership must record the following information on the appropriate COAR buying forms:


(A) Species name and code (see table 2 to this part).


(B) Area purchased (see table 16 to this part).


(C) Gear code (see table 15 to this part).


(D) Delivery code (form G only) (see table 1 to this part).


(E) Total weight (to the nearest lb) purchased from fishermen.


(F) Total amount paid to fishermen, including all post- season adjustments and/or bonuses and any credit received by fishermen for gas expenses, ice, delivery premiums, and other miscellaneous expenses.


(G) Price per pound. If additional adjustments may be made after this report has been filed, the owner must check the “$ not final” box, and submit Form M when these adjustments are paid. Do not include fish purchased from another processor.


(5) *Production forms, Forms B (1-6), D, F, H, J (1-2), and K).* For purposes of this paragraph, the total wholesale value is the amount that the processor receives for the finished product (free on board pricing mothership or catcher/processor). For products finished but not yet sold (still held in inventory), calculate the estimated value using the average price received to date for that product.


(i) *Requirement*—(A) *Mothership.* The owner of a mothership must record and submit the appropriate COAR production forms (B(1-6), D, F, H, J(1-2), and K) for all production that occurred for each species during the applicable year:


(*1*) That were purchased from fishermen on the grounds and/or dockside, including both processed and unprocessed seafood.


(*2*) That were then either processed on the mothership or exported out of the State of Alaska.


(B) *Catcher/processor.* The owner of a catcher/processor must record and submit the appropriate COAR production forms (B(1-6), D, F, H, J (1-2), and K) for each species harvested during the applicable year that were then either processed on the vessel or exported out of the State of Alaska.


(ii) *Information required, non-canned production*—(A) Enter area of processing (see table 16 to this part). List production of Canadian-harvested fish separately.


(B) Processed product. Processed product must be described by entering three codes:


(*1*) Process prefix code (see table 17 to this part)


(*2*) Process suffix code (see table 17 to this part)


(*3*) Product code (see table 1 to this part)


(C) Total net weight. Enter total weight (in pounds) of the finished product.


(D) Total value($). Enter the total wholesale value of the finished product.


(E) Enter price per pound of the finished product.


(iii) *Information required, canned production.* Complete an entry for each can size produced:


(A) Enter area of processing (see table 16 to this part).


(B) Process 51 or 52. Enter conventional canned code (51) or smoked, conventional canned code (52).


(C) Total value($). Enter the total wholesale value of the finished product.


(D) Enter can size in ounces, to the hundredth of an ounce.


(E) Enter number of cans per case.


(F) Enter number of cases.


(6) *Custom production forms, Form L (1-2)*—(i) *Requirement.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must record and submit COAR production form L (1-2) for each species in which custom production was done by the mothership or catcher/processor for another processor and for each species in which custom production was done for the mothership or catcher/processor by another processor.


(ii) *Custom-production by mothership or catcher/processor for another processor.* If the mothership or catcher/processor custom-processed fish or shellfish for another processor during the applicable year, the owner of the mothership or catcher/processor must list the processor name and ADF&G processor code (if known) to describe that processor, but must not include any of that production in production form L (1-2).


(iii) *Custom-production by another processor for mothership or catcher/processor.* If a processor custom-processed fish or shellfish for the mothership or catcher/processor during the applicable year, the owner of the mothership or catcher/processor must use a separate page to list each processor and must include the following information.


(A) *Custom fresh/frozen miscellaneous production.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must list the following information to describe production intended for wholesale/retail market and that are not frozen for canning later:


(*1*) Species name and code (see table 2 to this part).


(*2*) Area of processing (see table 16 to this part).


(*3*) Processed product. Processed product must be entered using three codes:


(*i*) Process prefix code (see table 17 to this part).


(*ii*) Process suffix code (see table 17 to this part).


(*iii*) Product code (see table 1 to this part).


(*4*) Total net weight. Enter total weight in pounds of the finished product.


(*5*) Total wholesale value($). Enter the total wholesale value of the finished product.


(B) *Custom canned production.* The owner of a mothership or catcher/processor must list the following information to describe each can size produced in custom canned production:


(*1*) Species name and code (see table 2 to this part).


(*2*) Area of processing (see table 16 to this part).


(*3*) Process 51 or 52. Enter conventional canned code (51) or smoked, conventional canned code (52).


(*4*) Total wholesale value ($). Enter the total wholesale value of the finished product.


(*5*) Can size in ounces, to the hundredth of an ounce.


(*6*) Number of cans per case.


(*7*) Number of cases.


(7) *Fish buying retro payments/post-season adjustments, Form M*—(i) *Requirement.* The owner of a mothership must record and submit COAR production Form M to describe additional adjustments and/or bonuses awarded to a fisherman, including credit received by fishermen for gas expenses, ice, delivery premiums, and other miscellaneous expenses.


(ii) *Information required*—(A) Enter species name and code (see table 2 to this part).


(B) Enter area purchased (see table 16 to this part)


(C) Enter gear code (see table 16 to this part).


(D) Enter total pounds purchased from fisherman.


(E) Enter total amount paid to fishermen (base + adjustment).


(q) *AI directed pollock fishery catch reports*—(1) *Applicability.* The Aleut Corporation shall provide NMFS the identity of its designated contact for the Aleut Corporation. The Aleut Corporation shall submit to the Regional Administrator a pollock catch report containing information required by paragraph (q)(3) of this section.


(2) *Time limits and submittal.* (i) The Aleut Corporation must submit its AI directed pollock fishery catch reports by one of the following methods:


(A) An electronic data file in a format approved by NMFS; or


(B) By fax.


(ii) The AI directed pollock fishery catch reports must be received by the Regional Administrator by 1200 hours, A.l.t. on Tuesday following the end of the applicable weekly reporting period, as defined at § 679.2.


(3) *Information required.* The AI directed pollock fishery catch report must contain the following information:


(i) Catcher vessel ADF&G number;


(ii) Federal fisheries or Federal processor permit number;


(iii) Delivery date;


(iv) Pollock harvested:


(A) For shoreside and stationary floating processors and motherships, the amount of pollock (in lb for shoreside and stationary floating processors and in mt for motherships) delivered, including the weight of at-sea pollock discards; and


(B) For catcher/processors, the amount of pollock (in mt) harvested and processed, including the weight of at-sea pollock discards; and


(v) ADF&G fish ticket number.


(r) *Rockfish Program*—(1) *General.* The owners and operators of catcher vessels, catcher/processors, and shoreside processors authorized as participants in the Rockfish Program must comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this section and must assign all catch to a rockfish cooperative or rockfish sideboard fishery, as applicable at the time of catch or receipt of groundfish. All owners of catcher vessels, catcher/processors, and shoreside processors authorized as participants in the Rockfish Program must ensure that their designated representatives or employees comply with all applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.


(2) *Logbook*—(i) *DFL.* Operators of catcher vessels equal to or greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA participating in a Rockfish Program fishery and using trawl gear must maintain a daily fishing logbook for trawl gear as described in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section.


(ii) *ELB.* Operators of catcher/processors permitted in the Rockfish Program must use a combination of NMFS-approved catcher/processor trawl gear ELB and eLandings to record and report groundfish and PSC information as described in paragraph (f) of this section to record Rockfish Program landings and production.


(3) *eLandings.* Managers of shoreside processors that receive rockfish primary species or rockfish secondary species in the Rockfish Program must use eLandings or NMFS-approved software as described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, instead of a logbook and WPR, to record Rockfish Program landings and production.


(4) *Production reports.* Operators of catcher/processors that are authorized as processors in the Rockfish Program must submit a production report as described in paragraphs (e)(9) and (10) of this section.


(5) *Product transfer report (PTR), processors.* Operators of catcher/processors and managers of shoreside processors that are authorized as processors in the Rockfish Program must submit a PTR as described in paragraph (g) of this section.


(6) [Reserved]


(7) *Vessel monitoring system (VMS) requirements* (see § 679.28(f)).


(8) *Rockfish cooperative vessel check-in and check-out report*—(i) *Applicability*—(A) *Vessel check-in.* The designated representative of a rockfish cooperative must designate any vessel that is authorized to fish under the rockfish cooperative's CQ permit, or, if authorized by the rockfish cooperative, the operator of a vessel must do so, before that vessel may fish under that CQ permit through a check-in procedure. The designated representative for a rockfish cooperative or operator of the vessel must submit to NMFS, in accordance with paragraph (r)(8)(ii) of this section, a check-in designation for a vessel:


(*1*) At least 24 hours prior to the time the catcher vessel begins a fishing trip to fish under a CQ permit; or


(*2*) At least 1 hour prior to the time the catcher/processor begins a fishing trip to fish under a CQ permit; and


(*3*) A check-in designation is effective at the beginning of the first fishing trip after the designation has been submitted.


(B) *Vessel check-out.* The designated representative of a rockfish cooperative must designate any vessel that is no longer fishing under a CQ permit for that rockfish cooperative, or, if authorized by the rockfish cooperative, the operator of the vessel must do so, through a check-out procedure. A check-out report must be submitted to NMFS, in accordance with (r)(8)(ii) of this section, within 6 hours after the effective date and time the rockfish cooperative ends the vessel's authority to fish under the CQ permit.


(*1*) If the vessel is fishing under a CQ permit for a catcher vessel cooperative, a check-out designation is effective at the end of a complete offload;


(*2*) If the vessel is fishing under a CQ permit for a catcher/processor cooperative, a check-out designation is effective upon submission to NMFS.


(ii) *Submittal.* The designated representative of the rockfish cooperative or, if authorized by the rockfish cooperative, the operator of a vessel must submit a vessel check-in or check-out report electronically. The rockfish cooperative's designated representative or vessel operator must log into the online system and create a vessel check-in or vessel check-out request as indicated on the computer screen. By using the NMFS ID password and submitting the transfer request, the designated representative or vessel operator certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete.


(iii) *Information required.* The vessel check-in or check-out report must contain the following information:


(A) CQ permit number;


(B) ADF&G vessel registration number(s) of vessel(s) designated to fish under the CQ permit;


(C) USCG designation number(s) of vessel(s) designated to fish under the CQ permit; and


(D) Date and time when check-in or check-out begins.


(9) *Rockfish CQ cost recovery fee submission* (See § 679.85).


(10) *Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report*—(i) *Applicability.* A rockfish processor (as defined at § 679.2) that receives and purchases landings of rockfish CQ groundfish must submit annually to NMFS a complete Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report, as described in this paragraph (r)(10), for each reporting period for which the rockfish processor receives rockfish CQ groundfish.


(ii) *Reporting period.* The reporting period of the Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report shall extend from April 1 through November 15 of each year.


(iii) *Due date.* A complete Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report must be received by the Regional Administrator not later than December 1 of the year in which the rockfish processor received the rockfish CQ groundfish.


(iv) *Information required.* (A) The rockfish processor must log in using the rockfish processor's password and NMFS person ID to submit a Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report. The NMFS software autofills the rockfish processor's name. The User must review the autofilled cells to ensure that they are accurate. A completed application must contain the information specified on the Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report with all applicable fields accurately filled-in.


(B) *Certification.* By using the rockfish processor NMFS ID and password and submitting the report, the rockfish processor certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.


(v) *Submittal.* The rockfish processor must complete and submit online by electronic submission to NMFS the Rockfish Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report available at the Alaska Region website.


(s) *Amendment 80 Program*—(1) *General.* The owners and operators of Amendment 80 vessels must comply with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this section. All owners of Amendment 80 vessels must ensure that their designated representatives or employees comply with all applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements.


(2) *Logbook-DCPL.* Operators of Amendment 80 vessels must use a daily cumulative production logbook for trawl gear as described in paragraph (a) of this section to record Amendment 80 Program landings and production.


(3) *Check-in/check-out report, processors.* Operators or managers of an Amendment 80 vessel must submit check-in/check-out reports as described in paragraph (h) of this section.


(4) *Production report.* Operators of Amendment 80 vessels that use a DCPL must submit a production report as described in paragraph (e)(10) of this section.


(5) *Product transfer report (PTR), processors.* Operators of Amendment 80 vessels must submit a PTR as described in paragraph (g) of this section.


(6) *Annual Amendment 80 cooperative report*—(i) *Applicability.* An Amendment 80 cooperative issued a CQ permit must submit annually to the Regional Administrator an Amendment 80 cooperative report detailing the use of the cooperative's CQ.


(ii) *Time limits and submittal.* (A) The annual Amendment 80 cooperative report must be submitted to the Regional Administrator by an electronic data file in a NMFS-approved format; by fax: 907-586-7557; or by mail sent to the Regional Administrator, NMFS Alaska Region, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668; and


(B) The annual Amendment 80 cooperative report for fishing activities under a CQ permit issued for the prior calendar year must be received by the Regional Administrator not later than 1700 hours A.l.t. on March 1 of each year.


(iii) *Information required.* The annual Amendment 80 cooperative report must include at a minimum:


(A) The cooperative's actual retained and discarded catch of CQ and GOA sideboard limited fisheries (if applicable) by statistical area and on a vessel-by-vessel basis;


(B) A description of the method used by the cooperative to monitor fisheries in which cooperative vessels participated; and


(C) A description of any actions taken by the cooperative against specific members in response to a member that exceeded the amount of CQ that the member was assigned to catch for the Amendment 80 cooperative.


(D) For each Amendment 80 cooperative, the percent of groundfish retained by that Amendment 80 cooperative of the aggregate groundfish retained by all Amendment 80 vessels assigned to that Amendment 80 cooperative using the following equations:


Substituting the value for *GFroundweight* into the following equation:


(E) For each Amendment 80 cooperative, a third party must audit the Amendment 80 cooperative's annual groundfish retention calculations and the Amendment 80 cooperative must include the finding of the third party audit in its Amendment 80 annual cooperative report.


(7) *Vessel monitoring system (VMS) requirements* (see § 679.28(f)).


(t) *Community Entity Quota Program Annual Report*—(1) *Applicability.* A CQE must submit an annual report on the CQE's administrative activities, business operation, and community fishing activities for each calendar year it holds any of the following: community charter halibut permits as described at § 300.67(k) of this title, halibut and sablefish individual fishing quota (IFQ) and quota shares (QS) as described at § 679.41(l)(3), and community Pacific cod endorsed non-trawl groundfish license limitation program (LLP) licenses as described at § 679.4(k)(10)(vi)(F)(*2*). The CQE may combine annual reports about its holdings of community charter halibut permits, IFQ, and LLPs in one report. A CQE must submit annual report data for the community charter halibut permit, IFQ, and LLP permits it held during the calendar year. A CQE is not required to submit an annual report for any calendar year in which it did not hold any community charter halibut permits, IFQ, or LLPs.


(2) *Time limits and submittal.* By January 31, the CQE must submit a complete annual report for the prior calendar year to the Regional Administrator, and to the governing body of each community represented by the CQE as identified in Table 21 to this part.


(3) *Complete annual report.* A complete annual report contains all general report requirements listed in paragraphs (t)(4)(i) through (t)(4)(iii) of this section and all program specific report requirements applicable to the CQE as described in paragraphs (t)(5)(i) through (t)(5)(iii).


(4) *General report requirements.* Each CQE must report the following information:


(i) The eligible community or communities, represented by the CQE, any new communities, and any withdrawn communities;


(ii) Any changes in the bylaws of the CQE, board of directors, or other key management personnel; and


(iii) Copies of minutes and other relevant decision making documents from all CQE board meetings held during the prior calendar year.


(5) *Program specific report requirements.* Each CQE must report business operations and fishing activity for the charter halibut permit, IFQ, and LLP programs for each eligible community represented by the CQE.


(i) If a community in Table 21 to part 679 was issued one or more charter halibut permits held on behalf of the community by a CQE, then the CQE must complete paragraphs (t)(5)(iv)(A) through (I) of this section;


(ii) If a community in Table 21 to part 679 leased halibut and sablefish IFQ derived from the QS held on behalf of the community by a CQE, then the CQE must complete paragraphs (t)(5)(v)(A) through (J) of this section; and


(iii) If a community in Table 21 to part 679 was assigned one or more Pacific cod endorsed non-trawl groundfish licenses held on behalf of the community by a CQE, then the CQE must complete paragraphs (t)(5)(vi)(A) through (I) of this section.


(iv) *Charter Halibut Limited Access Program.* For each community represented by the CQE, the program specific report for charter halibut permits held by a CQE, must include:


(A) The total number of charter halibut permits held by the CQE at the start of the calendar year, at the end of the calendar year, and projected to be held in the next calendar year;


(B) A description of the process used by the CQE to solicit applications from persons to use charter halibut permits that the CQE is holding on behalf of the eligible community;


(C) The total number of persons who applied to use one or more charter halibut permits;


(D) Name, business address, city and state, and number of charter halibut permits requested by each person who applied to use a charter halibut permit held by the CQE;


(E) A detailed description of the criteria used by the CQE to distribute charter halibut permits among persons who applied to use one or more charter halibut permits that the CQE is holding on behalf of the eligible community;


(F) For each person issued one or more charter halibut permits held by a CQE, provide their name, business address, city and state, ADF&G logbook number(s), and the number(s) of each charter halibut permits they were authorized to use with the corresponding regulatory area endorsement and angler endorsement;


(G) For each vessel authorized to participate in the charter halibut fishery using one or more charter halibut permits held by the CQE, provide the vessel name, ADF&G vessel registration number, USCG documentation number, length overall, home port and each charter halibut permits number held by the CQE and used onboard the vessel;


(H) For each vessel authorized to participate in the charter halibut fishery using one or more charter halibut permits held by the CQE, provide each set of ports from which the vessel departed and to which it returned, and the total number of trips that occurred to and from each set of ports when one or more charter halibut permits held by the CQE was used onboard the vessel; and


(I) For each community represented by the CQE, provide any payments made to the CQE for use of the charter halibut permits.


(v) *Individual Fishing Quota Program.* For each community represented by the CQE, the program specific report for halibut IFQ or sablefish IFQ that were derived from QS held by the CQE must include:


(A) The total amount of halibut QS and total amount of sablefish QS held by the CQE at the start of the calendar year, at the end of the calendar year, and projected to be held in the next calendar year;


(B) A description of the process used by the CQE to solicit applications from eligible community residents and non-residents to use IFQ that is derived from QS that the CQE is holding on behalf of the eligible community;


(C) The total number of eligible community residents and non-residents who applied to use IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE;


(D) Name, business address, city and state, and amount of IFQ requested by each person who applied to use IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE;


(E) A detailed description of the criteria used by the CQE to distribute IFQ among eligible community residents and non-residents who applied to use IFQ held by the CQE;


(F) For each person who leased IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE, provide their name, business address, city and state, each IFQ permit number, and the total pounds of halibut IFQ and total pounds of sablefish IFQ they were authorized to use through each IFQ permit number;


(G) For each vessel used to harvest IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE, provide the vessel name, ADF&G vessel registration number, USCG documentation number, length overall, home port, and each IFQ permit number(s) used onboard;


(H) A description of the efforts made by the CQE to ensure crew members onboard the vessels used to harvest the IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE are residents of the CQE eligible community;


(I) Name, resident city and state of each person employed as a crew member on each vessel used to harvest IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE; and


(J) For each community whose eligible community residents and non-residents landed IFQ derived from QS held by the CQE, provide any payments made to the CQE for use of the IFQ.


(vi) *License Limitation Program.* For each community represented by the CQE, the program specific report for GOA Pacific cod endorsed non-trawl groundfish licenses held by a CQE must include:


(A) The total number of LLP groundfish licenses by gear type endorsement held by the CQE at the start of the calendar year, at the end of the calendar year, and projected to be held in the next calendar year;


(B) A description of the process used by the CQE to solicit applications from residents of the eligible community to use LLP groundfish license(s) that the CQE is holding on behalf of the eligible community;


(C) The total number of community residents who applied to use an LLP groundfish license held by the CQE;


(D) Name, business address, city and state, and number of LLP groundfish licenses requested by each person who applied to use a LLP groundfish license held by the CQE;


(E) A detailed description of the criteria used by the CQE to distribute LLP groundfish licenses among eligible community residents who applied to use LLP groundfish licenses held by the CQE;


(F) For each person assigned one or more LLP groundfish licenses held by the CQE, provide their name, business address, city and state, and LLP groundfish license numbers for permits of each gear endorsement type they were authorized to use;


(G) For each vessel authorized to harvest LLP groundfish using one or more LLP groundfish licenses held by the CQE, provide the vessel name, ADF&G vessel registration number, USCG documentation number, length overall, home port, and each LLP groundfish license number used onboard;


(H) Name, resident city and state of each person employed as a crew member on each vessel authorized to harvest LLP groundfish using one or more LLP groundfish licenses held by the CQE; and


(I) For each community whose residents made landings using one or more LLP groundfish licenses held by the CQE, provide any payments made to the CQE for use of the LLP groundfish licenses.


(u) *BSAI Cost Recovery Volume and Value Reports*—(1) *Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report*—(i) *Applicability.* A shoreside processor designated on an FPP, or a mothership designated on an FFP, that processes landings of either CDQ Pacific cod or BSAI Pacific cod harvested by a vessel using trawl gear must submit annually to NMFS a complete Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report, as described in this paragraph (u)(1), for each reporting period for which the shorebased processor or mothership receives this Pacific cod.


(ii) *Reporting period.* The reporting period of the Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report shall extend from January 1 to October 31 of the year in which the landings were made.


(iii) *Due date.* A complete Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report must be received by NMFS no later than November 10 of the year in which the processor or mothership received the Pacific cod.


(iv) *Information required.* (A) The submitter must log in using his or her password and NMFS person ID to submit a Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report. The User must review any auto-filled cells to ensure that they are accurate. A completed report must have all applicable fields accurately filled-in.


(B) *Certification.* By using the NMFS person ID and password and submitting the report, the submitter certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.


(v) *Submittal.* The submitter must complete and submit online to NMFS the Pacific Cod Ex-vessel Volume and Value Report available at *https://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(2) *First Wholesale Volume and Value Report*—(i) *Applicability.* An Amendment 80 vessel owner that harvests groundfish species, other than Pacific cod, must submit annually to NMFS a complete First Wholesale Volume and Value Report, as described in this paragraph (u)(2), for each reporting period for which the Amendment 80 vessel harvests groundfish species, other than Pacific cod.


(ii) *Reporting period.* (A) The reporting period of the First Wholesale Volume and Value Report for all species except rock sole shall extend from January 1 to October 31 of the year in which the landings were made.


(B) The first reporting period of the First Wholesale Volume and Value Report for rock sole shall extend from January 1 to March 31, and the second reporting period shall extend from April 1 to October 31.


(iii) *Due date.* A complete First Wholesale Volume and Value Report must be received by NMFS no later than November 10 of the year in which the Amendment 80 vessel received the groundfish species, other than Pacific cod.


(iv) *Information required.* (A) The Amendment 80 vessel owner must log in using his or her password and NMFS person ID to submit a First Wholesale Volume and Value Report. The vessel owner must review any auto-filled cells to ensure that they are accurate. A completed report must have all applicable fields accurately filled-in.


(B) *Certification.* By using the NMFS person ID and password and submitting the report, the Amendment 80 vessel owner certifies that all information is true, correct, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.


(v) *Submittal.* The Amendment 80 vessel owner must complete and submit online to NMFS the First Wholesale Volume and Value Report available at *https://alaskafisheries.noaa.gov.*

(v) *Recreational Quota Entity Program Annual Report*—(1) *Applicability.* The RQE must submit a timely and complete annual report on the RQE's administrative activities and business operation for each calendar year that it holds halibut recreational fishing quota (RFQ) and quota shares (QS). The RQE may combine annual reports on its holdings of halibut QS and RFQ for IFQ regulatory areas 2C and 3A into one report. The RQE must submit annual report data for the halibut QS and RFQ it held during the calendar year. The RQE is not required to submit an annual report for any calendar year in which it did not hold any halibut QS or RFQ.


(2) *Time limits and submittal.* By January 31, the RQE must submit a complete annual report for the prior calendar year to the North Pacific Fishery Management Council, 605 West 4th Ave., Suite 306, Anchorage, AK 99501-2252, and to NMFS-Alaska Regional Administrator, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802-1668.


(3) *Complete annual report.* A complete annual report contains all general report requirements described in paragraphs (v)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section, and all information specific to IFQ regulatory areas 2C and 3A described in paragraphs (v)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(4) *General report requirements.* The RQE must annually report the following information:


(i) Any changes to the bylaws, board of directors, or other key management personnel of the RQE from the preceding year;


(ii) Amount and description of annual administrative expenses;


(iii) Amount and description of funds spent on conservation and research, including a summary of the results of those expenditures; and


(iv) Amount and description of all other expenses incurred by the RQE.


(5) *Information by IFQ regulatory area.* For each IFQ regulatory area represented by the RQE, the RQE must annually report the following information:


(i) The total amount of halibut QS by category and blocks held by the RQE at the start of the calendar year, on October 1, and at the end of the calendar year;


(ii) A list of all transfers (purchases or sales) of halibut QS, including the transaction price; and


(iii) A description of the number of charter halibut permits and number of angler endorsements purchased and held by the RQE.


(w) *Report on Area 4 halibut IFQ transfers to CDQ groups*—(1) *Applicability.* A CDQ group that receives IFQ regulatory area 4 halibut IFQ by transfer must submit a timely and complete report on the CDQ group's annual halibut IFQ transfer activities for each calendar year that it receives IFQ regulatory area 4 halibut IFQ by transfer. A CDQ group is not required to submit a report for any calendar year in which it did not receive any IFQ regulatory area 4 halibut IFQ by transfer.


(2) *Time limits and submittal.* A CDQ group must submit a complete report by January 31 of the year following a fishing year during which the CDQ group receives IFQ regulatory area 4B, 4C, or 4D halibut IFQ by transfer. The complete report must be submitted to the North Pacific Fishery Management Council, 605 West 4th Ave., Suite 306, Anchorage, AK 99501-2252, and to NMFS-Alaska Regional Administrator, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK, 99802-1668.


(3) *Complete report.* A complete report contains all report requirements described in paragraphs (w)(4)(i) through (w)(4)(iii) of this section.


(4) *Report requirements.* A CDQ group must report the following information:


(i) The annual amount, IFQ regulatory area, and vessel category of IFQ regulatory area 4B, 4C, and 4D halibut IFQ transferred to the CDQ group;


(ii) The criteria used to select IFQ holders to transfer IFQ regulatory area 4B, 4C, and 4D halibut IFQ to the CDQ group; and


(iii) The criteria used to determine the person(s) eligible to harvest IFQ regulatory area 4B, 4C, and 4D halibut IFQ received by transfer.


(x) *PCTC Program.* The owners and operators of catcher vessels and processors authorized as participants in the PCTC Program must comply with the applicable R&R requirements of this section and must assign all catch to a PCTC Program cooperative at the time of catch or receipt of groundfish. Owners of catcher vessels and processors authorized as participants in the PCTC Program must ensure that their designated representatives or employees comply with applicable R&R requirements as described at § 679.134.



---

[N] [61 FR 31230, June 19, 1996] 


