# ยง 51.40   Consultation with NRC staff.

(a) A prospective applicant or petitioner for rulemaking is encouraged to confer with NRC staff as early as possible in its planning process before submitting environmental information or filing an environmental report.


(b) Requests for guidance or information on environmental matters may include inquiries relating to:


(1) Applicable NRC rules and regulations;


(2) Format, content and procedures for filing environmental reports and other environmental information, including the type and quantity of environmental information likely to be needed to address issues and concerns identified in the scoping process described in ยง 51.29 in a manner appropriate to their relative significance;


(3) Availability of relevant environmental studies and environmental information;


(4) Need for, appropriate level and scope of any environmental studies or information which the Commission may require to be submitted in connection with an application or petition for rulemaking;


(5) Public meetings with NRC staff.


(c) Questions concerning environmental matters should be addressed to the following NRC staff offices as appropriate: 


(1) *Utilization facilities:* ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, telephone (301) 415-1270, e-mail *RidsNrrOd@nrc.gov.*

(2) *Production facilities:* ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, telephone (301) 415-7800, e-mail *RidsNmssOd@nrc.gov.*

(3) *Materials licenses:* ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, telephone (301) 415-7800, e-mail *RidsNmssOd@nrc.gov.*

(4) *Rulemaking:* ATTN: Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Rulemaking Support Branch, Division of Rulemaking, Environmental, and Financial Support, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, telephone (800) 368-5642.


(5) *General Environmental Matters:* Executive Director for Operations, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: (301) 415-1700.



---

[N] [49 FR 9381, Mar. 12, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 13399, Apr. 25, 1988; 60 FR 24552, May 9, 1995; 68 FR 58810, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 5724, Jan. 31, 2008; 84 FR 65644, Nov. 29, 2019]




