# § 32.52   North Carolina.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, tundra swan, coot, mourning dove, snipe and woodcock on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require all hunters to possess and carry a signed, self-service refuge hunting regulations and permit (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting in designated areas.


(iii) We allow hunters to enter and remain in open hunting areas from 1 hour before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, rabbit, squirrel, opossum, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(ii) We only allow dog training during the corresponding hunt season.


(iii) We require a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) to hunt raccoon or opossum from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) Unarmed hunters may walk to retrieve stray dogs from closed areas and “no dog hunting” areas.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and frogging on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We only allow pole and line, rod and reel, or cast net.


(iii) We require a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G) for fishing or frogging between legal sunset and legal sunrise.


(iv) You must only take frogs by use of frog gigs.


(b) *Cedar Island National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of tundra swan, Canada and snow goose, brant, duck, teal, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow portable blinds. Hunters must remove blinds, decoys, and other personal property from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) Hunters/hunt parties must not hunt closer than 150 yards (135 meters) apart.


(iii) We allow hunters to enter and remain in open hunting areas from 1 hour before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(2)-(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Currituck National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of swan, goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a North Carolina Waterfowl Hunt Permit or a refuge hunt permit (signed brochure). You must carry a permit while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) You must hunt from your assigned blind location.


(iii) We allow hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 4:20 p.m. (as governed by County regulations).


(iv) We allow hunters to access the refuge 1
1/2 hours before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and feral hog on limited dates on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge hunting permit (signed brochure) that hunters must sign and carry while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We allow the use of shotguns, muzzleloading rifles/shotguns, and bows in designated units. We prohibit the use of all other rifles and crossbows.


(iii) We allow hunters on the refuge from 1 hour before legal sunrise to 1 hour after legal sunset.


(iv) We allow the use of portable tree stands, but hunters must remove them from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) Hunters may access the refuge by foot, boat, and/or vehicle, but we prohibit hunting from a boat or vehicle.


(vi) Each youth hunter, age 15 and younger, must have successfully completed a State-approved hunter safety course, and must possess and carry proof of certification. While hunting, each youth hunter must remain within sight and normal voice contact of an adult age 21 or older. An adult may directly supervise up to two youth hunters.


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.65(g) for regulations.


(e) *Mackay Island National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)—

*Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of swan, light and dark goose, duck, merganser, coot, moorhen, and gallinule on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a North Carolina Waterfowl Hunt Permit or a signed refuge hunt brochure that must be carried while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) Hunters must hunt from their assigned blind location.


(iii) We allow hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 4:20 p.m. (as governed by County regulations).


(iv) We allow hunters to access the refuge 1
1/2 hours before legal shooting time until 5:20 p.m.


(v) We allow incidental take of coyote and feral hog while hunting.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, and incidental take of feral hog, on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a signed refuge hunt brochure that hunters must sign and carry while hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We allow the use of shotguns, muzzleloading rifles/shotguns, pistols, crossbows, and bows. We prohibit the use of all other rifles.


(iii) We allow access to hunting areas from 5 a.m. until 8 p.m.


(iv) We prohibit carrying a loaded firearm on or within 50 feet (15 meters) of gravel roads.


(v) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(v) of this section applies.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset from March 15 through October 15, except that we allow fishing along the Marsh Causeway year-round. The 0.3 Mile Loop Trail and the terminus of the canal immediately adjacent to the Visitor Center are open year-round, but we close them during the refuge permit deer hunts.


(ii) Anglers must attend all fishing lines.


(f) *Mattamuskeet National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of tundra swan, goose, duck, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require refuge-issued permits (name and address) that you must validate at the refuge headquarters, sign, and possess while hunting.


(ii) Refuge personnel will assign you to a hunting blind. You must hunt from your assigned blind.


(iii) Hunters may only shoot crippled waterfowl from outside the assigned blind.


(iv) Hunters may use decoys, but you must remove them from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) All waterfowl hunters must check out at the assigned station prior to leaving the refuge.


(vi) Shooting hours are from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon).


(vii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(viii) We allow the taking of only Canada goose during the State September Canada goose season subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow hunting Monday through Saturday during the State season.


(B) The hunter must possess and carry a validated refuge permit (name and address) while hunting.


(ix) Hunting by youth hunters (age 16 and younger) is subject to the following conditions:


(A) Validly licensed adults, age 21 or older, holding applicable permits must accompany and supervise, remaining in sight and voice contact at all times, any youth hunters. Each adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters.


(B) Youth hunters must possess and carry evidence of successful completion of a State-approved hunter education course.


(C) We allow hunting on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays during the late and youth waterfowl State seasons.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The hunter must possess and carry a signed, validated refuge permit (name and address) and a State-issued lottery permit while hunting.


(ii) Hunters may take one antlered deer and one antlerless deer per day, or two antlerless deer per day.


(iii) Hunters may take deer with shotgun, bow and arrow, crossbow, or muzzleloading rifle/shotgun.


(iv) We allow hunters on the refuge from 1 hour before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(v) Hunters can use boats to access hunt areas, but we prohibit hunting from a boat.


(vi) We allow the use of only portable blinds and deer stands. Blinds must display hunter orange that is visible from all directions. Hunters with a valid permit (name and address) may erect one portable blind or stand the day before the start of their hunt and must remove it at the end of the second day of that 2-day hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Any stands or blinds left overnight on the refuge must have a tag with the hunter's State hunting license number.


(vii) Hunters must wear a minimum of 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of hunter-orange material above the waist that is visible from all directions.


(viii) An adult may only supervise one youth hunter. The youth hunter must be within sight and normal voice contact of the adult.


(ix) We allow the use of only biodegradable-type flagging.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We are open to sport fishing, bow fishing, and crabbing from March 1 through October 31, from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset, except that we allow bank fishing and crabbing year-round from:


(A) State Route 94 (24 hours a day);


(B) The north bridge and south of the north bridge at Lake Landing;


(C) The Outfall Canal water control structure;


(D) The Central Canal bridge on Wildlife Drive; and


(E) Along the west main and east main canal between the Entrance Road metal bridge and Number One East Canal as posted.


(ii) We prohibit herring dipping.


(iii) We allow crabbing subject to the following conditions:


(A) We allow only five handlines and hand-activated traps per person. Owners must be in attendance, and must remove all handlines and traps daily (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(B) We prohibit crab pots.


(C) You may only take or possess 12 crabs per person per day.


(g) *Pea Island National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We require all recreational nighttime surf anglers to possess and carry a signed, self-service refuge nighttime surf fishing permit (signed brochure) while fishing on the refuge between 
1/2 hour after legal sunset and 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise.


(h) *Pee Dee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of dove on designated dates and areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require all hunters to possess and carry a signed refuge general hunt permit (signed brochure) and government-issued picture identification while in the field.


(ii) Validly licensed adults, age 21 or older, holding applicable permits must accompany and supervise, remaining in sight and voice contact at all times, any youth hunters (age 18 and younger). Each adult may supervise no more than two youth hunters. Youth hunters must possess and carry evidence of successful completion of a State-approved hunter education course.


(iii) We prohibit hunting on Sundays.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, rabbit, squirrel, raccoon, and opossum on designated dates and areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply (with the following exception to the condition at paragraph (h)(1)(ii): Each adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter).


(ii) We require the use of dogs on raccoon/opossum hunts. All dogs must wear a collar displaying the owner's contact information.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated dates and areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply (with the following exception to the condition at paragraph (h)(1)(ii): Each adult may supervise no more than one youth hunter).


(ii) We require each person participating in a muzzleloader or firearms quota hunt to possess a nontransferable refuge quota hunt permit. You may apply for quota hunt permits by submitting a completed hunt application (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) available at the refuge office.


(iii) During big game hunts, we prohibit hunters from entering the refuge earlier than 4 a.m., and they must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iv) Youth quota hunts are for hunters ages 10 through 17.


(v) During refuge firearms deer hunts, all participants must wear at least 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of unbroken, fluorescent-orange material above the waist as an outer garment while hunting and while en route to and from hunting areas.


(vi) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(vii) We prohibit placing a tree stand on the refuge more than 4 days prior to the opening day of the deer hunt in which hunters will be participating, except for participants of the youth deer hunt, who may place tree stands no more than 7 days prior to the hunt day. Archery hunters must remove their tree stands by the last day of that hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter). Muzzleloader and firearms hunters must remove their tree stands by the day after the last day of that hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(viii) You must check all deer taken on the refuge at the refuge check station on the date of take prior to removing the animal from the refuge.


(ix) During refuge muzzleloader and firearms deer hunts, we prohibit all other public use in refuge hunting areas.


(x) We prohibit big game hunting within 100 feet (30 meters) of any vehicle or road open to vehicle traffic.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated dates and areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require all anglers to possess and carry a signed refuge sport fishing permit (signed brochure) and government-issued picture identification while fishing in refuge waters.


(ii) We prohibit possession or use of trotlines, set hooks, gigs, jug lines, limblines, snagging devices, nets, seines, fish traps, or other special devices.


(i) *Pocosin Lakes National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, swan, dove, woodcock, rail, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require consent from refuge personnel to enter and retrieve legally taken game animals from closed areas, including “No Hunting Zones.”


(ii) We require all hunters and anglers to possess and carry a signed, self-service refuge hunting/fishing permit (signed brochure) while hunting and fishing on the refuge. We require all hunters age 16 and older to purchase and carry a special refuge recreational activity permit (name/address/phone number).


(iii) We allow hunters to enter and remain in hunting areas from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset when we allow hunting in those areas.


(iv) We allow the use of all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) only on designated ATV roads (see § 27.31 of this chapter) and only to transport hunters and their equipment to hunt and scout. We allow hunting from ATVs while on these designated ATV roads when they are stationary and the engine is turned off. We allow ATV use only on the ATV roads at the following times:


(A) When we open the ATV road and surrounding area to hunting;


(B) One week prior to the ATV road and surrounding area opening to hunting; and


(C) On Sundays, when we open the ATV road and surrounding area for hunting the following Monday.


(v) We allow the use of biodegradable-type flagging.


(vi) We allow the use of only portable blinds and temporary blinds constructed of natural materials. You must remove portable blinds at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vii) We allow the use of dogs to point and retrieve migratory game birds.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of quail, squirrel, raccoon, opossum, rabbit, beaver, nutria, and fox on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) We only allow the taking of beaver and nutria with firearms and only during those times when the area is open to hunting of other game animals with firearms.


(iii) We prohibit the hunting of raccoon and opossum during, 5 days before, and 5 days after the State bear seasons. Outside of these periods, we allow the hunting of raccoon and opossum at night but only while possessing a General Special Use Application and Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(iv) We prohibit the use of rifles, other than .22-caliber rimfire rifles for hunting, and we prohibit the use of pistols for hunting.


(v) We allow the use of dogs for pointing and retrieving upland game and for chasing rabbit (but not fox). We prohibit possession of buckshot or slugs while hunting with dogs.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, turkey, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply.


(ii) You may hunt turkey only if you carry a valid permit (General Activities Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G). These permits are valid only for the dates and areas shown on the permit. You may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while hunting turkeys west of Evans Road and on the Pungo Unit.


(iii) We prohibit the use of rifles and pistols.


(iv) We allow deer hunting on the Pungo Unit only through the end of October each season, except that we allow deer hunting with archery equipment on the Pungo Unit through the end of November.


(v) We allow hunters to take feral hogs in any area that is open to hunting deer using only those weapons authorized for taking deer. On the Frying Pan tracts, we also allow hunters to take feral hogs, using only those weapons authorized for taking deer, whenever we open those tracts to hunting any game species with firearms.


(vi) We allow the use of only portable deer stands (tree climbers, ladders, tripods, etc.).We require that you remove all stands, blinds, and other personal property at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing in Pungo Lake and New Lake only from March 1 through October 31, except that we close Pungo Lake and the entire Pungo Unit to fishing during the limited big game hunts.


(ii) We allow fishing only from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(j) *Roanoke River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, raccoon, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge.


(4) [Reserved]


(k) *Swanquarter National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow the hunting of tundra swan, goose, brant, duck, teal, and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow portable blinds. You must remove blinds, decoys, and other personal property at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We prohibit hunters/hunt parties from hunting closer than 150 yards (135 meters) apart.


(iii) We allow hunters to enter and remain in open hunting areas from 1 hour before legal shooting time until 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(2)-(4) [Reserved]



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54129, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48873, Aug. 31, 2021]




