# § 1030.6   Periodic statement disclosures.

(a) *General rule.* If a depository institution mails or delivers a periodic statement, the statement shall include the following disclosures:


(1) *Annual percentage yield earned.* The “annual percentage yield earned” during the statement period, using that term, calculated according to the rules in appendix A of this part.


(2) *Amount of interest.* The dollar amount of interest earned during the statement period.


(3) *Fees imposed.* Fees required to be disclosed under § 1030.4(b)(4) of this part that were debited to the account during the statement period. The fees shall be itemized by type and dollar amounts. Except as provided in § 1030.11(a)(1) of this part, when fees of the same type are imposed more than once in a statement period, a depository institution may itemize each fee separately or group the fees together and disclose a total dollar amount for all fees of that type.


(4) *Length of period.* The total number of days in the statement period, or the beginning and ending dates of the period.


(5) *Aggregate fee disclosure.* If applicable, the total overdraft and returned item fees required to be disclosed by § 1030.11(a).


(b) *Special rule for average daily balance method.* In making the disclosures described in paragraph (a) of this section, institutions that use the average daily balance method and that calculate interest for a period other than the statement period shall calculate and disclose the annual percentage yield earned and amount of interest earned based on that period rather than the statement period. The information in paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall be stated for that period as well as for the statement period.




