# ยง 761.21   Plan requirement.

(a) *General requirement.* To receive funding under this part, each PHDEP qualified recipient or AHDEP applicant must submit to HUD, for Federal Fiscal Year (FFY) 2000 and each following FFY, a plan for addressing the problem of drug-related and violent crime in and around the housing covered by the plan. If the plan covers more than one development, it does not have to address each development separately if the same activities will apply to each development. The plan must address each development separately only where program activities will differ from one development to another. The plan must include a description of the planned activity or activities, a description of the role of plan partners and their contributions to carrying out the plan, a budget and timetable for implementation of the activities, and the funding source for each activity, identifying in particular all activities to be funded under this part. In addition, the plan must set measurable performance goals and interim milestones for the PHDEP-supported activities and describe the system for monitoring and evaluating these activities. Measurable goals must be established for each category of funded activities, including drug prevention, drug intervention, drug treatment, tenant patrols, and physical improvements. The plan under this section serves as the application for PHDEP funding, and an otherwise qualified recipient that does not submit a PHDEP plan as required will not be funded. For AHDEP funding, NOFAs published in the _Federal Register_ may provide additional information on plan requirements for purposes of this section. Plans must meet the requirements of this section before grant funds are distributed. HUD will review the submitted plans for a determination of whether they meet the requirements of this section.


(b) *Additional requirements for consortia.* In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, to receive funding under this part, a consortium's plan must include a copy of the consortium agreement between the PHAs which are participating in the consortium, and a copy of the payment agreement between the consortium and HUD.



---

[N] [64 FR 49920, Sept. 14, 1999]




