# § 721.10841   Bismuth nitrate oxide (Bi

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as bismuth nitrate oxide (Bi_3_(NO_3_)O_4_) (PMN P-14-603; CAS No. 1417164-49-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(i), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirator with an assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 10 meets the minimum requirements for § 721.63(a)(4): NIOSH-certified air-purifying elastomeric half-mask respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(ii) *Industrial commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(j).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 32015, June 5, 2015]




