# § 710.23   Definitions.

The following definitions also apply to subpart B of this part.


*Active substance* means any interim active substance, any naturally occurring chemical substance as defined by § 710.27(b), any chemical substance that was added to the Inventory on or after June 21, 2006 pursuant to a Notice of Commencement under § 720.102 received by the Agency on or after June 21, 2006, and any chemical substance subject to commercial activity designation that the Administrator designates as active based on the receipt of a notice under this subpart.


*Central Data Exchange or CDX* means EPA's centralized electronic document reporting portal, or its successors.


*Chemical Information Submission System or CISS* means EPA's web-based reporting tool for preparing and submitting a Notice of Activity.


*Chemical substance subject to commercial activity designation* means a chemical substance that requires a designation as either an active or an inactive substance. A chemical substance is subject to commercial activity designation if it is not an interim active substance, it was added to the Inventory before June 21, 2006, it is not a naturally occurring chemical substance as defined by § 710.27(b), and it has not yet been designated by the Administrator as either an active or an inactive substance.


*e-NOA* means EPA's software module within CISS for generating and completing Notice of Activity Forms A and B.


*Existing claim for protection of specific chemical identity against disclosure* is a claim for protection of the specific chemical identity of a chemical substance that is listed on the confidential portion of the Inventory, asserted prior to June 22, 2016.


*Inactive substance* means any chemical substance subject to commercial activity designation, that the Administrator designates as inactive based on the lack of receipt of a notice under this subpart, effective 90 days after the Administrator identifies the chemical substance for such designation.


*Interim active substance* means any chemical substance that was reported, pursuant to 40 CFR part 711, as having been manufactured in and of the calendar years: 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, or 2015.


*Known to or reasonably ascertainable by* means all information in a person's possession or control, plus all information that a reasonable person similarly situated might be expected to possess, control, or know.


*Notice of Activity Form A* means the form for supplying retrospective notification under TSCA section 8(b)(4), for which the submission obligation is described in § 710.25(a).


*Notice of Activity Form B* means the form for supplying forward-looking reporting under TSCA section 8(b)(5), for which the submission obligation is described in § 710.25(c).


*Lookback period* means the period beginning on June 21, 2006 and ending on June 21, 2016.


*Possession* or *Control* means in the possession or control of any person, or of any subsidiary, partnership in which the person is a general partner, parent company, or any company or partnership which the parent company owns or controls, if the subsidiary, parent company, or other company or partnership is associated with the person in the research, development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the chemical substance in question. Information is in the possession or control of a person if it is:


(1) In the person's own files including files maintained by employees of the person in the course of their employment.


(2) In commercially available data bases to which the person has purchased access.


(3) Maintained in the files in the course of employment by other agents of the person who are associated with research, development, test marketing, or commercial marketing of the chemical substance in question.


*Reportable chemical substance* means a chemical substance that is listed on the Inventory and that is either:


(1) A chemical substance subject to commercial activity designation for which notification is required or allowed under § 710.25(a) and § 710.25(b),


(2) A chemical substance that was added to the confidential portion of the Inventory before June 22, 2016, or (3) an inactive substance for which notification is required under § 710.25(c).


*Submission period* means the applicable period for submitting a Notice of Activity under § 710.25.




