# § 423.582   Request for a standard redetermination.

(a) *Method and place for filing a request.* An enrollee or an enrollee's prescribing physician or other prescriber (acting on behalf of the enrollee) must ask for a redetermination by making a written request with the Part D plan sponsor that made the coverage determination or the at-risk determination under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f). The Part D plan sponsor may adopt a policy for accepting oral requests.


(b) *Timeframe for filing a request.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a request for a redetermination must be filed within 60 calendar days after receipt of the written coverage determination notice or the at-risk determination under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f).


(1) The date of receipt of the coverage determination or at-risk determination is presumed to be 5 calendar days after the date of the written coverage determination or at-risk determination, unless there is evidence to the contrary.


(2) For purposes of meeting the 60-calendar day filing deadline, the request is considered as filed on the date it is received by the Part D plan sponsor or delegated entity specified in the Part D plan sponsor's written coverage determination or at-risk determination.


(c) *Extending the time for filing a request*—(1) *General rule.* If an enrollee or prescribing physician or other prescriber acting on behalf of an enrollee shows good cause, the Part D plan sponsor may extend the timeframe for filing a request for redetermination.


(2) *How to request an extension of timeframe.* If the 60 calendar day period in which to file a request for a redetermination has expired, an enrollee or a prescribing physician or other prescriber acting on behalf of an enrollee may file a request for redetermination and extension of time frame with the Part D plan sponsor. The request for redetermination and to extend the timeframe must—


(i) Be in writing; and


(ii) State why the request for redetermination was not filed on time.


(d) *Withdrawing a request.* The person who files a request for redetermination may withdraw it by filing a request with the Part D sponsor.


(e) *Dismissing a request.* A Part D plan sponsor dismisses a redetermination request, either entirely or as to any stated issue, under any of the following circumstances:


(1) When the person or entity requesting a redetermination is not a proper party under § 423.580.


(2) When the Part D plan sponsor determines the party failed to make out a valid request for redetermination that substantially complies with paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) When the party fails to file the redetermination request within the proper filing time frame in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(4) When the enrollee or the enrollee's representative files a request for redetermination, but the enrollee dies while the request is pending, and both of the following criteria apply:


(i) The enrollee's surviving spouse or estate has no remaining financial interest in the case.


(ii) The enrollee's representative, if any, does not wish to pursue the request for coverage.


(5) When a party filing the redetermination request submits a timely request for withdrawal of the request for a redetermination with the Part D plan sponsor.


(f) *Notice of dismissal.* The Part D plan sponsor must mail or otherwise transmit a written notice of the dismissal of the redetermination request to the parties. The notice must state all of the following:


(1) The reason for the dismissal.


(2) The right to request that the Part D plan sponsor vacate the dismissal action.


(3) The right to request review of the dismissal by the independent entity.


(g) *Vacating a dismissal.* If good cause is established, a Part D sponsor may vacate its dismissal of a request for redetermination within 6 months from the date of the notice of dismissal.


(h) *Effect of dismissal.* The dismissal of a request for redetermination is binding unless the enrollee or other party requests review by the IRE or the decision is vacated under paragraph (g) of this section.



---

[N] [74 FR 1547, Jan. 12, 2009, as amended at 74 FR 65363, Dec. 9, 2009; 83 FR 16752, Apr. 16, 2018; 86 FR 6120, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 30841, Apr. 23, 2024]






