# § 891.750   Selection and admission of tenants.

(a) *Application for admission.* The Borrower must accept applications for admission to the project in the form prescribed by HUD. Applicant families applying for assisted units (or residential spaces in a group home) must complete a certification of eligibility as part of the application for admission. Applicant families must meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, and sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B. Both the Borrower and the applicant family must complete and sign the application for admission. On request, the Borrower must furnish copies of all applications for admission to HUD. 








(b) *Determination of eligibility and selection of tenants.* The Borrower is responsible for determining whether applicants are eligible for admission and for the selection of families. To be eligible for admission, an applicant family must be a family that includes a person with a disability (that meets the definition of “handicapped family” in 24 CFR 891.505); meet any project occupancy requirements approved by HUD; meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B; and be a low-income family, as defined in part 5, subpart F of this title, as modified by 24 CFR 891.505. Under certain circumstances, HUD may permit the leasing of units (or residential space in a group home) to ineligible families under § 891.720.








(1) *Local residency requirements are prohibited.* Local residency preferences may be applied in selecting tenants only to the extent that they are not inconsistent with affirmative fair housing marketing objectives and the Borrower's HUD-approved affirmative fair housing marketing plan. Preferences may not be based on the length of time the applicant has resided in the jurisdiction. With respect to any residency preference, persons expected to reside in the community as a result of current or planned employment will be treated as residents. 


(2) If the Borrower determines that the family is eligible and is otherwise acceptable and units (or residential spaces in a group home) are available, the Borrower will assign the family a unit or residential space in a group home. If the family will occupy an assisted unit the Borrower will assign the family a unit of the appropriate size in accordance with HUD standards. If no suitable unit (or residential space in a group home) is available, the Borrower will place the family on a waiting list for the project and notify the family when a suitable unit or residential space may become available. If the waiting list is so long that the applicant would not be likely to be admitted within the next 12 months, the Borrower may advise the applicant that no additional applications for admission are being considered for that reason. 


(3) If the Borrower determines that an applicant is ineligible for admission or the Borrower is not selecting the applicant for other reasons, the Borrower will promptly notify the applicant in writing of the determination, the reasons for the determination, and that the applicant has a right to request a meeting to review the rejection, in accordance with HUD requirements. The review, if requested, may not be conducted by the member of the Borrower's staff who made the initial decision to reject the applicant. The applicant may also exercise other rights, including filing a complaint with HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, if the applicant believes the applicant is being discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including actual or perceived sexual orientation and gender identity), disability, familial status, or national origin.


















(4) Records on applicants and approved eligible families, which provide racial, ethnic, gender and place of previous residency data required by HUD, must be maintained and retained for three years. 


(c) *Reexamination of family income and composition*—(1) *Regular reexaminations.* If the family occupies an assisted unit (or residential space in a group home), the Borrower must reexamine the income and composition of the family at least every 12 months. Upon verification of the information, the Borrower shall make appropriate adjustments in the total tenant payment in accordance with § 5.657 of this title and must adjust the rent. The Borrower must also request an appropriate adjustment to the project assistance payment. Further, the Borrower must determine whether the family's unit size is still appropriate and must carry out any unit transfer in accordance with HUD standards. At the time of reexamination, the Borrower must require the family to meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for obtaining wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, see 24 CFR part 5, subpart B.


(2) *Interim reexamination.* If the family occupies an assisted unit (or residential space in a group home) the family must comply with the provisions in § 5.657 of this title regarding interim reporting of changes in income. If the Borrower receives information concerning a change in the family's income or other circumstances between regularly scheduled reexaminations, the Borrower must consult with the family and make any adjustments determined to be appropriate. See 24 CFR part 5, subpart B, for the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security Number at interim reexaminations involving new household members. For requirements regarding the signing and submitting of consent forms by families for obtaining wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection agencies, see 24 CFR part 5, subpart B. Any change in the family's income or other circumstances that result in an adjustment in the total tenant payment, tenant rent, or project assistance payment must be verified.





 


(3) *Continuation of project assistance payment.* (i) A family occupying an assisted unit (or residential space in a group home) shall remain eligible for project assistance payments until the total tenant payment equals or exceeds the gross rent (or a pro rata share of the gross rent in a group home). The termination of subsidy eligibility will not affect the family's other rights under its lease. Project assistance payments may be resumed if, as a result of changes in income, rent, or other relevant circumstances during the term of the PAC, the family meets the income eligibility requirements of § 5.657 of this title (as modified in § 891.105) and project assistance is available for the unit or residential space under the terms of the PAC. The family will not be required to establish its eligibility for admission to the project under the remaining requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.






(ii) A family's eligibility for project assistance payment may also be terminated in accordance with HUD requirements for such reasons as failure to submit requested verification information, including failure to meet the disclosure and verification requirements for Social Security Numbers, or failure to sign and submit consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by 24 CFR part 5, subpart B.


(4) *Streamlined income determination.* An owner may elect to follow the provisions of 24 CFR 5.657(d).





---

[N] [61 FR 11956, Mar. 22, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 12371, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 75234, Nov. 2, 2023]




