# ยง 761.103   Farm assessment.

(a) The Agency, in collaboration with the applicant, will assess the farming operation to:


(1) Determine the applicant's financial condition, organizational structure, and management strengths and weaknesses;


(2) Identify and prioritize training and progression lending needs; and


(3) Develop a progression lending plan to assist the borrower in achieving financial viability and transitioning to private commercial credit or other sources of credit at reasonable rates and terms, except for CL.


(b) Except for ML, the initial assessment must evaluate, at a minimum, the:


(1) Farm organization and key personnel qualifications;


(2) Type of farming operation;


(3) The short- and long-term goals of the operation, including goals to reasonably increase working capital reserves and savings, including reasonable savings for retirement and education, to support operational stability and growth, and goals for progression towards graduation to commercial credit or eventual self-financing;


(4) Adequacy of real estate, including facilities, to conduct the farming operation;


(5) Adequacy of chattel property used to conduct the farming operation;


(6) Historical performance, except for streamlined CL;


(7) Farm operating plan;


(8) Progression lending plan, except for streamlined CL;


(9) Training plan; and


(10) Graduation plan, except for CL.




(c) For ML, the Agency will complete a narrative that will evaluate, at a minimum, the:


(1) Type of farming operation and adequacy of resources;


(2) Amount of assistance necessary to cover expenses to carry out the proposed farm operating plan, including building an adequate equity base;


(3) The short- and long-term goals of the operation, including goals to reasonably increase working capital reserves and savings, including reasonable savings for retirement and education, to support operational stability and growth, and goals for progression towards graduation to commercial credit or eventual self-financing;


(4) The short- and long-term financial viability of the farming operation, including a marketing plan, and available production history, as applicable;


(5) Progression lending plan; and


(6) Training plan.


(d) An assessment update must be prepared for each subsequent loan. The update must include a farm operating plan and any other items discussed in paragraph (b) of this section that have significantly changed since the initial assessment.


(e) The Agency reviews the assessment to determine a borrower's progress at least annually, combining any required classification and graduation reviews as part of the review. For streamlined CLs, the borrower must provide a current balance sheet and income tax records. Any negative trends noted between the previous years' and the current years' information must be evaluated and addressed in the assessment of the streamlined CL borrower.


(f) If a CL borrower becomes financially distressed, delinquent, or receives any servicing options available under part 766 of this chapter, all elements of the assessment in paragraph (b) of this section must be addressed.



---

[N] [72 FR 63285, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 75 FR 54012, Sept. 3, 2010; 76 FR 5057, Jan. 28, 2011; 78 FR 3835, Jan. 17, 2013; 78 FR 65529, Nov. 1, 2013; 86 FR 43391, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 13123, Mar. 9, 2022; 89 FR 63037, Aug. 8, 2024]




