# § 120.57   Authorization types.

(a) *License* means a document bearing the word “license” issued by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, or authorized designee, that permits the export, reexport, retransfer, temporary import, or brokering of a specific defense article or defense service controlled by this subchapter.


(b) *Other approval* means a document, other than a license, issued by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, or authorized designee, that approves an activity regulated by this subchapter (e.g., approvals for brokering activities or retransfer authorizations), or the use of an exemption to the license requirements as described in this subchapter.


(c) *Exemption* means a provision of this subchapter that authorizes the export, reexport, retransfer, temporary import, or brokering of a specific defense article or defense service without a license or other written authorization.


(d) *Manufacturing license agreement* means an agreement (e.g., contract), approved by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (DDTC), whereby a U.S. person grants a foreign person an authorization to manufacture defense articles abroad and which involves or contemplates:


(1) The export of technical data or defense articles or the performance of a defense service; or


(2) The use by the foreign person of technical data or defense articles previously exported by the U.S. person.


(e) *Technical assistance agreement* means an agreement (e.g., contract), approved by DDTC, for the performance of a defense service(s) or the disclosure of technical data, as opposed to an agreement granting a right or license to manufacture defense articles. Assembly of defense articles is included under this section, provided production rights or manufacturing know-how are not conveyed. Should such rights be transferred, paragraph (d) of this section is applicable.


(f) *Distribution agreement* means an agreement (e.g., a contract), approved by DDTC, to establish a warehouse or distribution point abroad for defense articles exported from the United States for subsequent distribution to entities in an approved sales territory.






