# § 1.42-6   Buildings qualifying for carryover allocations.

(a) *Carryover allocations*—(1) *In general.* A carryover allocation is an allocation that meets the requirements of section 42(h)(1)(E) or (F). If the requirements of section § 42(h)(1)(E) or (F) that are required to be satisfied by the close of a calendar year are not satisfied, the allocation is not valid and is treated as if it had not been made for that calendar year. For example, if a carryover allocation fails to satisfy a requirement in § 1.42-6(d) for making an allocation, such as failing to be signed or dated by an authorized official of an allocating agency by the close of a calendar year, the allocation is not valid and is treated as if it had not been made for that calendar year. 


(2) *10 percent basis requirement.* A carryover allocation may only be made with respect to a qualified building. A qualified building is any building which is part of a project if, by the date specified under paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, a taxpayer's basis in the project is more than 10 percent of the taxpayer's reasonably expected basis in the project as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year the allocation is made. For purposes of meeting the 10 percent basis requirement, the determination of whether a building is part of a single-building project or multi-building project is based on whether the carryover allocation is made under section 42(h)(1)(E) (building-based allocation) or section 42(h)(1)(F) (project-based allocation). In the case of a multi-building project that receives an allocation under section 42(h)(1)(F), the 10 percent basis requirement is satisfied by reference to the entire project. 


(i) *Allocation made before July 1.* If a carryover allocation is made before July 1 of a calendar year, a taxpayer must meet the 10 percent basis requirement by the close of that calendar year. If a taxpayer does not meet the 10 percent basis requirement by the close of the calendar year, the carryover allocation is not valid and is treated as if it had not been made.


(ii) *Allocation made after June 30.* If a carryover allocation is made after June 30 of a calendar year, a taxpayer must meet the 10 percent basis requirement by the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation was made. If a taxpayer does not meet the 10 percent basis requirement by the close of the required date, the carryover allocation must be returned to the Agency. Unlike a carryover allocation made before July 1, if a taxpayer does not meet the 10 percent basis requirement by the close of the required date, the carryover allocation is treated as a valid allocation for the calendar year of allocation, but is included in the “returned credit component” for purposes of determining the State housing credit ceiling under section 42(h)(3)(C) for the calendar year following the calendar year of the allocation. See § 1.42-14(d)(1). 


(b) *Carryover-allocation basis*—(1) *In general.* Subject to the limitations of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a taxpayer's basis in a project for purposes of section 42(h)(1) (E)(ii) or (F) (carryover-allocation basis) is the taxpayer's adjusted basis in land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of the project, whether or not these amounts are includible in eligible basis under section 42(d). Thus, for example, if the project is to include property that is not residential rental property, such as commercial space, the basis attributable to the commercial space, although not includible in eligible basis, is includible in carryover-allocation basis. The adjusted basis of land and depreciable property is determined under sections 1012 and 1016, and generally includes the direct and indirect costs of acquiring, constructing, and rehabilitating the property. Costs otherwise includible in carryover-allocation basis are not excluded by reason of having been incurred prior to the calendar year in which the carryover allocation is made.


(2) *Limitations*—For purposes of determining carryover-allocation basis under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following limitations apply.


(i) *Taxpayer must have basis in land or depreciable property related to the project.* A taxpayer has carryover-allocation basis to the extent that it has basis in land or depreciable property and the land or depreciable property is reasonably expected to be part of the project for which the carryover allocation is made. This basis includes all items that are properly capitalizable with respect to the land or depreciable property. For example, a nonrefundable downpayment for, or an amount paid to acquire an option to purchase, land or depreciable property may be included in carryover-allocation basis if properly capitalizable into the basis of land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of a project.


(ii) *High cost areas.* Any increase in eligible basis that may result under section 42(d)(5)(C) from a building's location in a qualified census tract or difficult development area is not taken into account in determining carryover-allocation basis or reasonably expected basis.


(iii) *Amounts not treated as paid or incurred.* An amount is not includible in carryover-allocation basis unless it is treated as paid or incurred under the method of accounting used by the taxpayer. For example, a cash method taxpayer cannot include construction costs in carryover-allocation basis unless the costs have been paid, and an accrual method taxpayer cannot include construction costs in carryover- allocation basis unless they have been properly accrued. See paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section for a special rule for fees. 


(iv) *Fees.* A fee is includible in carryover-allocation basis only to the extent the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section are met and— 


(A) The fee is reasonable; 


(B) The taxpayer is legally obligated to pay the fee; 


(C) The fee is capitalizable as part of the taxpayer's basis in land or depreciable property that is reasonably expected to be part of the project; 


(D) The fee is not paid (or to be paid) by the taxpayer to itself; and 


(E) If the fee is paid (or to be paid) by the taxpayer to a related person, and the taxpayer uses the cash method of accounting, the taxpayer could properly accrue the fee under the accrual method of accounting (considering, for example, the rules of section 461(h)). A person is a related person if the person bears a relationship to the taxpayer specified in sections 267(b) or 707(b)(1), or if the person and the taxpayer are engaged in trades or businesses under common control (within the meaning of subsections (a) and (b) of section 52). 


(3) *Reasonably expected basis.* Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply in determining the taxpayer's reasonably expected basis in a project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year of the allocation. 


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. 


(c) *Verification of basis by Agency*—(1) *Verification requirement.* An Agency that makes a carryover allocation to a taxpayer must verify that the taxpayer has met the 10 percent basis requirement of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) *Manner of verification.* An Agency may verify that a taxpayer has incurred more than 10 percent of its reasonably expected basis in a project by obtaining a certification from the taxpayer, in writing and under penalty of perjury, that the taxpayer has incurred by the close of the calendar year of the allocation (for allocations made before July 1) or by the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation is made (for allocations made after June 30) more than 10 percent of the reasonably expected basis in the project. The certification must be accompanied by supporting documentation that the Agency must review. Supporting documentation may include, for example, copies of checks or other records of payments. Alternatively, an Agency may verify that the taxpayer has incurred adequate basis by requiring that the taxpayer obtain from an attorney or certified public accountant a written certification to the Agency, that the attorney or accountant has examined all eligible costs incurred with respect to the project and that, based upon this examination, it is the attorney's or accountant's belief that the taxpayer has incurred more than 10 percent of its reasonably expected basis in the project by the close of the calendar year of the allocation (for allocations made before July 1) or by the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation is made (for allocations made after June 30). 


(3) *Time of verification*—(i) *Allocations made before July 1.* For a carryover allocation made before July 1, an Agency may require that the basis certification be submitted to or received by the Agency prior to the close of the calendar year of allocation or within a reasonable time following the close of the calendar year of allocation. The Agency will need to verify basis as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section to accurately complete the Form 8610, “Annual Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report,” and the Schedule A (Form 8610), “Carryover Allocation of Low-Income Housing Credit,” for the calendar year of the allocation. If the basis certification is not timely made, or supporting documentation is lacking, inadequate, or does not actually support the certification, the Agency should notify the taxpayer and try to get adequate documentation. If the Agency cannot verify before the Form 8610 is filed that the taxpayer has satisfied the 10 percent basis requirement for a carryover allocation made before July 1, the allocation is not valid and is treated as if it had not been made and the carryover allocation should not be reported on the Schedule A (Form 8610). 


(ii) *Allocations made after June 30.* An Agency may require that the basis certification be submitted to or received by the Agency prior to the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation was made or within a reasonable period of time following the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation was made. The Agency will need to verify basis as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. If the basis certification is not timely made, or supporting documentation is lacking, inadequate, or does not actually support the certification, the Agency should notify the taxpayer and try to get adequate documentation. If the Agency cannot verify that the taxpayer has satisfied the 10 percent basis requirement for a carryover allocation made after June 30, the allocation must be returned to the Agency. The carryover allocation is a valid allocation for the calendar year of the allocation, but is included in the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year following the calendar year of the allocation.


(d) *Requirements for making carryover allocations*—(1) *In general.* Generally, an allocation is made when an Agency issues the Form 8609, ‘Low-Income Housing Credit Allocation Certification,’ for a building. See § 1.42-1T(d)(8)(ii). An Agency does not issue the Form 8609 for a building until the building is placed in service. However, in cases where allocations of credit are made pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(E) (relating to carryover allocations for buildings) or section 42(h)(1)(F) (relating to carryover allocations for multiple-building projects), Form 8609 is not used as the allocating document because the buildings are not yet in service. When an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F), the allocating document is the document meeting the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In addition, when an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(F), the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section must be met for the allocation to be valid. An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) reduces the state housing credit ceiling for the year in which the allocation is made, whether or not the Form 8609 is also issued in that year. 


(2) *Requirements for allocation.* An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) is made when an allocation document containing the following information is completed, signed, and dated by an authorized official of the Agency— 


(i) The address of each building in the project, or if none exists, a specific description of the location of each building; 


(ii) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer receiving the allocation; 


(iii) The name and address of the Agency; 


(iv) The taxpayer identification number of the Agency; 


(v) The date of the allocation; 


(vi) The housing credit dollar amount allocated to the building or project, as applicable; 


(vii) The taxpayer's reasonably expected basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the allocation is made; 


(viii) For carryover allocations made before July 1, the taxpayer's basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the calendar year of the allocation and the percentage that basis bears to the reasonably expected basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year of allocation; 


(ix) The date that each building in the project is expected to be placed in service; and 


(x) The Building Identification Number (B.I.N.) to be assigned to each building in the project. The B.I.N. must reflect the year an allocation is first made to the building, regardless of the year that the building is placed in service. This B.I.N. must be used for all allocations of credit for the building. For example, rehabilitation expenditures treated as a separate new building under section 42(e) should not have a separate B.I.N. if the building to which the rehabilitation expenditures are made has a B.I.N. In this case, the B.I.N. used for the rehabilitation expenditures shall be the B.I.N. previously assigned to the building, although the rehabilitation expenditures must have a separate Form 8609 for the allocation. Similarly, a newly constructed building that receives an allocation of credit in different calendar years must have a separate Form 8609 for each allocation. The B.I.N. assigned to the building for the first allocation must be used for the subsequent allocation. 


(3) *Special rules for project-based allocations*—(i) *In general.* An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(F) (a project-based allocation) must meet the requirements of this section as well as the requirements of section 42(h)(1)(F), including the minimum basis requirement of section 42(h)(1)(E)(ii). 


(ii) *Requirement of section 42(h)(1)(F)(i)(III).* An allocation satisfies the requirement of section 42(h)(1)(F)(i)(III) if the Form 8609 that is issued for each building that is placed in service in the project states the portion of the project-based allocation that is applied to that building. 


(4) *Recordkeeping requirements*—(i) *Taxpayer.* When an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(E) or (F), the taxpayer must retain a copy of the allocation document. The Form 8609 that reflects the allocation must be filed for the first taxable year that the credit is claimed and for each taxable year thereafter throughout the compliance period, whether or not a credit is claimed for the taxable year.


(ii) *Agency.* The Agency must retain the original carryover allocation document made under paragraph (d)(2) of this section and file Schedule A (Form 8610) with the Agency's Form 8610 for the year the allocation is made. The Agency must also retain a copy of the Form 8609 that is issued to the taxpayer and file the original with the Agency's Form 8610 that reflects the year the form is issued.


(5) *Separate procedure for election of appropriate percentage month.* If a taxpayer receives an allocation under section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) and wishes to elect under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii) to use the appropriate percentage for a month other than the month in which a building is placed in service, the requirements specified in § 1.42-8 must be met for the election to be effective. 


(e) *Special rules.* The following rules apply for purposes of this section. 


(1) *Treatment of partnerships and other flow-through entities.* With respect to taxpayers that own projects through partnerships or other flow-through entities (e.g., S corporations, estates, or trusts), carryover-allocation basis is determined at the entity level using the rules provided by this section. In addition, the entity is responsible for providing to the Agency the certification and documentation required under the basis verification requirement in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Transferees.* If land or depreciable property that is expected to be part of a project is transferred after a carryover allocation has been made for a building that is reasonably expected to be part of the project, but before the close of the calendar year of the allocation (for allocations made before July 1) or by the close of the date that is 6 months after the date the allocation is made (for allocations made after June 30), the transferee's carryover-allocation basis is determined under the principles of this section and section 42(d)(7). See also Rev. Rul. 91-38, 1991-2 C.B. 3 (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(*b*) of this chapter). In addition, the transferee is treated as the taxpayer for purposes of the basis verification requirement of this section, and therefore, is responsible for providing to the Agency the required certifications and documentation. 



---

[N] [T.D. 8520, 59 FR 10069, Mar. 3, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8859, 65 FR 2328, Jan. 14, 2000; 65 FR 16317, Mar. 28, 2000; T.D. 9110, 69 FR 502, Jan. 6, 2004]




