# ยง 95.1779   GMRS unwanted emissions limits.

Each GMRS transmitter type must be designed to comply with the applicable unwanted emissions limits in this section.


(a) *Emission masks.* Emission masks applicable to transmitting equipment in the GMRS are defined by the requirements in the following table. The numbers in the attenuation requirements column refer to rule paragraph numbers under paragraph (b) of this section.


(1) Filtering noted for GMRS transmitters refers to the requirement in ยง 95.1775(e).


(2) Unwanted emission power may be measured as either mean power or peak envelope power, provided that the transmitter output power is measured the same way.


(b) *Attenuation requirements.* The power of unwanted emissions must be attenuated below the transmitter output power in Watts (P) by at least:


(1) 25 dB (decibels) on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 100% of the authorized bandwidth.


(2) 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 100% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.


(3) 83 log (f_d_ รท 5) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (f_d_ in kHz) of more than 5 kHz up to and including 10 kHz.


(4) 116 log (f_d_ รท 6.1) dB or 50 + 10 log (P) dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation, on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (f_d_ in kHz), of more than 10 kHz up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.


(5) 25 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 150% of the authorized bandwidth.


(6) 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 150% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.


(7) 43 + 10 log (P) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250%.


(c) *Measurement bandwidths.* The power of unwanted emissions in the frequency bands specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section is measured with a reference bandwidth of 300 Hz. The power of unwanted emissions in the frequency range specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section is measured with a reference bandwidth of at least 30 kHz.


(d) *Measurement conditions.* The requirements in this section apply to each GMRS transmitter type both with and without the connection of permitted attachments, such as an external speaker, microphone, power cord and/or antenna.




