# ยง 1022.130   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Annual file disclosure* means a file disclosure that is provided to a consumer, upon consumer request and without charge, once in any twelve month period, in compliance with section 612(a) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681j(a).


(b) *Associated consumer reporting agency* means a consumer reporting agency that owns or maintains consumer files housed within systems operated by one or more nationwide consumer reporting agencies.


(c) *Consumer report* has the meaning provided in section 603(d) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).


(d) *Consumer reporting agency* has the meaning provided in section 603(f) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(f).


(e) *Extraordinary request volume* occurs when the number of consumers requesting or attempting to request file disclosures during any twenty-four hour period is more than 175 percent of the rolling ninety-day daily average of consumers requesting or attempting to request file disclosures. For example, if over the previous ninety days an average of one hundred consumers per day requested or attempted to request file disclosures, then extraordinary request volume would be any volume greater than 175 percent of one hundred, *i.e.,* 176 or more requests in a single twenty-four hour period.


(f) *File disclosure* means a disclosure by a consumer reporting agency pursuant to section 609 of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681g.


(g) *High request volume* occurs when the number of consumers requesting or attempting to request file disclosures during any twenty-four hour period is more than 125 percent of the rolling ninety-day daily average of consumers requesting or attempting to request file disclosures. For example, if over the previous ninety days an average of one hundred consumers per day requested or attempted to request file disclosures, then high request volume would be any volume greater than 125 percent of one hundred, *i.e.,* 126 or more requests in a single twenty-four hour period.


(h) *Nationwide consumer reporting agency* means a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis as defined in section 603(p) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p).


(i) *Nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency* has the meaning provided in section 603(w) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(w).


(j) *Request method* means the method by which a consumer chooses to communicate a request for an annual file disclosure.




