# § 147.1750   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II wells in the State of North Dakota, except those on Indian lands, is the program administered by the North Dakota Industrial Commission, approved by EPA pursuant to section 1425 of the SDWA. Notice of this approval was published in the _Federal Register_ on August 23, 1983 (48 FR 38237); the effective date of this program is September 24, 1983. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State statutes and regulations cited in this paragraph are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under the SDWA for the State of North Dakota. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on June 25, 1984.


(1) North Dakota Century Code, Chapter 38-08 (Control of Gas and Oil Resources, 1987 and Supp. 1989); 


(2) North Dakota Administrative Code, Chapter 43-02-05 (Underground Injection Control, as published in *Statutes and Rules for the Conservation of Oil and Gas,* North Dakota Industrial Commission, revised effective November 1, 1987); 


(3) North Dakota Administrative Code, Chapter 43-02-03 (General Rules, as published in *Statutes and Rules for the Conservation of Oil and Gas,* North Dakota Industrial Commission, revised effective November 1, 1987). 


(b) The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region VIII and the North Dakota Industrial Commission, Oil and Gas Division, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on June 16, 1983, as amended September 7, 1989. 


(c) *Statement of legal authority.* “Underground Injection Control Program Attorney General's Statement,” as submitted with the North Dakota Underground Injection Control Program Primacy Application for Class II Injection Wells, transmitted by the Governor on July 15, 1982 (16 pages).


(d) The Program Description and other materials submitted as part of the application or as supplements thereto.



---

[N] [49 FR 20197, May 11, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 43089, Oct. 25, 1988; 56 FR 9418, Mar. 6, 1991]




