# ยง 1130.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052), the following definitions apply:


(a) *Definition of durable infant or toddler product* means the following products intended for use, or that may be reasonably expected to be used, by children under the age of 5 years. The listed product categories are further defined in the applicable standards that the Commission issues under section 104(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and include products that are combinations of the following product categories:


(1) Full-size cribs and non-full-size cribs;


(2) Toddler beds;


(3) High chairs, booster seats, and hook-on chairs;


(4) Bath seats;


(5) Gates and other enclosures for confining a child;


(6) Play yards;


(7) Stationary activity centers;


(8) Infant carrier, including soft infant and toddler carriers, hand-held infant carriers, sling carriers, and frame child carriers;


(9) Strollers;


(10) Walkers;


(11) Swings;


(12) Bassinets and cradles, including bedside sleepers and infant sleep products;


(13) Children's folding chairs and children's folding stools;


(14) Baby changing products;


(15) Infant bouncers;


(16) Infant bathtubs;


(17) Bed rails; and


(18) Crib mattresses.


(b) *Manufacturer,* for purposes of this part, in the case of a product produced within the United States, means the domestic manufacturer of the product, and in the case of an imported product, means the importer of the product.


(c) *Product recall* means action taken pursuant to sections 12, 15(c) or 15(d) of the CPSA (15 U.S.C. 2061, 2054(c), or 2064(d)), and action taken pursuant to a corrective action plan implemented by a company in cooperation with the Commission, where the firm is conducting one or more of the following: repair of the product; replacement of the product; or refund of the purchase price of the product.


(d) *Safety alert* means notice or warning of a potential problem with an individual product or class of products so that consumers and other users of the affected products respond accordingly to reduce or eliminate the potential for injury.



---

[N] [74 FR 68676, Dec. 29, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 59511, Dec. 15, 2017; 84 FR 49950, Sept. 24, 2019; 87 FR 26658, May 17, 2021; 86 FR 33071, June 23, 2021; 87 FR 8673, Feb. 15, 2022]




