# § 165.562   Safety Zone; Hurricanes, Tropical Storms, and Other Storms with High Winds; Captain of the Port Zone Sector North Carolina.

(a) *Regulated Areas.* All navigable waters of the United States within Sector North Carolina COTP Zone as described in 33 CFR 3.25-20, during specified port conditions. Port conditions and safety zone activation may vary for different regions of the regulated area at different times, based on storm conditions and projected track.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Captain of the Port* means the Commander, Coast Guard Sector North Carolina.


*(2) Representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer or civilian employee who has been authorized to act on the behalf of the Captain of the Port.


(3) *Port Condition WHISKEY* means a condition set by the COTP when National Weather Service (NWS) weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the Port of Wilmington or Port of Morehead City within 72 hours.


(4) *Port Condition X-RAY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 48 hours.


(5) *Port Condition YANKEE* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 24 hours.


(6) *Port Condition ZULU* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are predicted to make landfall at the port within 12 hours.


(7) *Port Condition RECOVERY* means a condition set by the COTP when NWS weather advisories indicate that sustained gale force winds (39-54 mph/34-47 knots) from a tropical or hurricane force storm are no longer predicted for the designated area. This port condition remains in effect until the regulated areas are deemed safe and reopened to normal operations.


(c) *Regulations*—(1) *Port Condition WHISKEY.* All vessels must exercise due diligence in preparation for potential storm impacts. Ports and waterfront facilities are encouraged to remove all debris and secure potential flying hazards. All self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 gross tons (GT), all oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs, and all tank barges over 200 GT wishing to remain in port should seek approval from the COTP prior to Port Condition X-Ray.


(2) *Port Condition X-RAY.* All vessels and port facilities are encouraged to ensure potential flying debris and hazardous materials are removed or secured. All self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 gross tons (GT), all oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs, and all tank barges over 200 GT without COTP approval to remain in port must depart prior to the setting of Port Condition Yankee. Vessels with COTP permission to remain in port must implement their approved mooring arrangement.


(3) *Port Condition YANKEE.* Affected ports are closed to all inbound vessel traffic. All self-propelled oceangoing vessels over 500 gross tons (GT), all oceangoing tank barges and their supporting tugs, and all tank barges over 200 GT must have departed designated ports within the Sector North Carolina COTP zone unless they have received COTP approval to remain in port.


(4) *Port Condition ZULU.* Affected ports and waterways are closed to all vessel traffic unless specifically authorized by the COTP or representative. Cargo operations are suspended, including bunkering and lightering. The COTP may grant cargo transfer waivers unless a Cargo of Particular Hazard or Certain Dangerous Cargo is involved.


(5) *Port Condition RECOVERY.* Designated areas are closed to all commercial traffic and recreational vessels 65-feet in length and greater. Based on assessments of channel conditions, navigability concerns, and hazards to navigation, the COTP may permit vessel movements with restrictions. Restrictions may include, but are not limited to, preventing or delaying vessel movements, imposing draft, speed, size, horsepower or daylight restrictions, or directing the use of specific routes. Vessels permitted to transit the regulated area shall comply with the lawful orders or directions given by the COTP or designated representative.


(6) *Safety Zones Notice.* Coast Guard Sector North Carolina will attempt to notify the maritime community of periods during which these safety zones will be in effect via Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Broadcast, or by on-scene designated representatives.


(7) *Regulated Area Notice.* The Coast Guard will provide notice of the regulated area via Broadcast Notice to Mariners, Marine Safety Information Broadcast, or by on-scene designated representatives.


(8) *Exception.* This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [Doc. No. USCG-2023-0052, 88 FR 80133, Nov. 17, 2023]






