# § 222.164   What procedures does the Secretary follow in making a determination under section 7009?

(a) *Initiation.* (1) A proceeding under this subpart leading to a determination by the Secretary under section 8009 may be initiated— 


(i) By the State educational agency (SEA) or other appropriate agency of the State; 


(ii) By an LEA; or 


(iii) By the Secretary, if the Secretary has reason to believe that the State's action is in violation of section 8009. 


(2) Whenever a proceeding under this subpart is initiated, the party initiating the proceeding shall provide either the State or all LEAs with a complete copy of the submission required in paragraph (b) of this section. Following receipt of the submission, the Secretary shall notify the State and all LEAs in the State of their right to request from the Secretary, within 30 days of the initiation of a proceeding, the opportunity to present their views to the Secretary before the Secretary makes a determination.


(b) *Submission.* (1) A submission by a State or LEA under this section must be made in the manner requested by the Secretary and must contain the information and assurances as may be required by the Secretary in order to reach a determination under section 8009 and this subpart. 


(2)(i) A State in a submission shall— 


(A) Demonstrate how its State aid program comports with § 222.162; and 


(B) Demonstrate for each LEA receiving funds under the Act that the proportion of those funds that will be taken into consideration comports with § 222.163. 


(ii) The submission must be received by the Secretary no later than 120 calendar days before the beginning of the State's fiscal year for the year of the determination, and must include (except as provided in § 222.161(c)(2)) final second preceding fiscal year disparity data enabling the Secretary to determine whether the standard in § 222.162 has been met. The submission is considered timely if received by the Secretary on or before the filing deadline or if it bears a U.S. Postal Service postmark dated on or before the filing deadline. 


(3) An LEA in a submission must demonstrate whether the State aid program comports with section 8009. 


(4) Whenever a proceeding is initiated under this subpart, the Secretary may request from a State the data deemed necessary to make a determination. A failure on the part of a State to comply with that request within a reasonable period of time results in a summary determination by the Secretary that the State aid program of that State does not comport with the regulations in this subpart. 


(5) Before making a determination under section 8009, the Secretary affords the State, and all LEAs in the State, an opportunity to present their views as follows: 


(i) Upon receipt of a timely request for a predetermination hearing, the Secretary notifies all LEAs and the State of the time and place of the predetermination hearing. 


(ii) Predetermination hearings are informal and any LEA and the State may participate whether or not they requested the predetermination hearing. 


(iii) At the conclusion of the predetermination hearing, the Secretary holds the record open for 15 days for the submission of post-hearing comments. The Secretary may extend the period for post-hearing comments for good cause for up to an additional 15 days. 


(iv) Instead of a predetermination hearing, if the party or parties requesting the predetermination hearing agree, they may present their views to the Secretary exclusively in writing. In such a case, the Secretary notifies all LEAs and the State that this alternative procedure is being followed and that they have up to 30 days from the date of the notice in which to submit their views in writing. Any LEA or the State may submit its views in writing within the specified time, regardless of whether it requested the opportunity to present its views. 


(c) *Determinations.* The Secretary reviews the participants' submissions and any views presented at a predetermination hearing under paragraph (b)(5) of this section, including views submitted during the post-hearing comment period. Based upon this review, the Secretary issues a written determination setting forth the reasons for the determination in sufficient detail to enable the State or LEAs to respond. The Secretary affords reasonable notice of a determination under this subpart and the opportunity for a hearing to the State or any LEA adversely affected by the determination.



---

[N] [60 FR 50778, Sept. 29, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 35419, July 1, 1997; 81 FR 64745, Sept. 20, 2016]




