# § 58.146   Cleaning and sanitizing treatment.

(a) *Equipment and utensils.* The equipment, sanitary piping and utensils used in receiving and processing of the milk, and manufacturing and handling of the product shall be maintained in a sanitary condition. Sanitary seal assemblies shall be removable on all agitators, pumps, and vats and shall be inspected at regular intervals and kept clean. Unless other provisions are recommended in the following supplement sections, all equipment not designed for C.I.P. cleaning or mechanical cleaning shall be disassembled after each day's use for thorough cleaning. Dairy cleaners, detergents, wetting agents or sanitizing agents, or other similar materials which will not contaminate or adversely affect the products may be used. Steel wool or metal sponges shall not be used in the cleaning of any dairy equipment or utensils. 


(1) Product contact surfaces shall be subjected to an effective sanitizing treatment prior to use, except where dry cleaning is permitted. Utensils and portable equipment used in processing and manufacturing operations shall be stored above the floor in clean, dry locations and in a self draining position on racks constructed of impervious corrosion-resistant material. 


(2) C.I.P. cleaning or mechanical cleaning systems shall be used only on equipment and pipeline systems which have been designed, engineered and installed for that purpose. When such cleaning is used, careful attention shall be given to the proper procedures to assure satisfactory cleaning. All C.I.P. installations and cleaning procedures shall be in accordance with 3-A Suggested Method for the Installation and Cleaning of Cleaned-In-Place Sanitary Milk Pipelines for Milk and Milk Products Plants. Because of the possibilities of corrosion, the recommendations of the cleaning compound manufacturer should be followed with respect to time, temperature and concentration of specific acid or alkaline solutions and bactericides. Such cleaning operation should be preceded by a thorough rinse at approximately 110-115 °F. continuously discarding the water. Following the circulation of the cleaning solution the equipment and lines shall be thoroughly rinsed with lukewarm water and checks should be made for effectiveness of cleaning. All caps, plugs, special fittings, valve seats, cross ends, pumps, and tee ends shall be opened or removed and brushed clean. All non-pasteurized product contact surfaces should be sanitized. Immediately prior to starting the product flow, the pasteurized product contact surfaces shall be given sanitizing treatment. 


(b) *Milk cans and can washers.* Milk cans and lids shall be cleaned, sanitized and dried before returning to producers. Inspection, repair or replacement of cans and lids shall be adequate to substantially exclude from use cans and lids showing open seams, cracks, rust condition, milkstone or any unsanitary condition.


(c) *Milk transport tanks.* A covered or enclosed wash dock and cleaning and sanitizing facilities shall be available to all plants that receive or ship milk in tanks. Milk transport tanks, sanitary piping, fittings, and pumps shall be cleaned and sanitized at least once each day after use: Provided that, if they are not to be used immediately after emptying a load of milk, they shall be washed promptly after use and given bactericidal treatment immediately before use. After being washed and sanitized, each tank should be identified by a tag attached to the outlet valve, bearing the following information: Plant and specific location where cleaned, date and time of day of washing and sanitizing, and name of person who washed and name of person who sanitized the tank. The tag shall not be removed until the tank is again washed and sanitized. 


(d) *Building.* All windows, glass, partitions, and skylights should be washed as often as necessary to keep them clean. Cracked or broken glass shall be replaced promptly. The walls, ceilings and doors should be washed periodically and kept free from soil and unsightly conditions. The shelves and ledges should be wiped or vacuumed as often as necessary to keep them free from dust and debris. The material picked up by the vacuum cleaners shall be disposed of in sealed containers which will prevent contamination or insect infestation from the waste material. 




