# § 319.40-5   Importation and entry requirements for specified articles.

(a) *Bamboo timber.* Bamboo timber consisting of whole culms or canes may be imported into Guam or the Northern Mariana Islands subject to inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. Bamboo timber consisting of whole culms or canes that are completely dry as evidenced by lack of moisture in node tissue may be imported into any part of the United States subject to inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. 


(b) *Monterey pine logs and lumber from Chile and New Zealand; Douglas-fir logs and lumber from New Zealand*—(1) Logs—(i) *Requirements prior to importation.* Monterey or Radiata pine (*Pinus radiata*) logs from Chile or New Zealand and Douglas-fir (*Pseudotsuga menziesii*) logs from New Zealand that are accompanied by a certificate stating that the logs meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) (A) through (D) of this section, and that are consigned to a facility in the United States that operates in accordance with § 319.40-8, may be imported in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section. 


(A) The logs must be from live healthy trees which are apparently free of plant pests, plant pest damage, and decay organisms. 


(B) The logs must be debarked in accordance with § 319.40-7(b) prior to fumigation. 


(C) The logs and any regulated wood packaging material to be used with the logs during shipment to the United States must be fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter within 45 days following the date the trees are felled and prior to arrival of the logs in the United States, in the holds or in sealable containers. Fumigation must be conducted in the same sealable container or hold in which the logs and regulated wood packaging material are exported to the United States. 


(D) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated article is permitted on the means of conveyance with the logs, unless the logs and the other regulated articles are in separate holds or separate sealed containers, or, if the logs and other regulated articles are mixed in a hold or sealed container, the other regulated articles either have been heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or have been fumigated in the hold or sealable container in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section. 


(ii) *Requirements upon arrival in the United States.* The following requirements apply upon arrival of the logs in the United States. 


(A) The logs must be kept segregated from other regulated articles from the time of discharge from the means of conveyance until the logs are completely processed at a facility in the United States that operates under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8. 


(B) The logs must be moved from the port of first arrival to the facility that operates under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8 by as direct a route as reasonably possible. 


(iii) *Requirements at the processing facility.* The logs must be consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8 that includes the following requirements: 


(A) Logs or any products generated from logs, including lumber, must be heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter, or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. 


(B) The logs, including sawdust, wood chips, or other products generated from the logs in the United States, must be processed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section within 60 days from the time the logs are released from the port of first arrival. 


(C) Sawdust, wood chips, and waste generated by sawing or processing the logs must be disposed of by burning, heat treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , heat treatment with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , or other processing that will destroy any plant pests associated with the sawdust, wood chips, and waste. Composting and use of the sawdust, wood chips, and waste as mulch are prohibited unless composting and use as mulch are preceded by fumigation in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , heat treatment in accordance with part 305 of this chapter , or heat treatment with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter . Wood chips, sawdust, and waste may be moved in enclosed trucks for processing at another facility operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8. 


(2) *Raw lumber.* Raw lumber, including regulated wood packaging material imported as cargo, from Chile or New Zealand derived from Monterey or Radiata pine (*Pinus radiata*) logs and raw lumber from New Zealand derived from Douglas-fir (*Pseudotsuga menziesii*) logs may be imported in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) During shipment to the United States, no other regulated article (other than regulated wood packaging material) is permitted on the means of conveyance with the raw lumber, unless the raw lumber and the other regulated articles are in separate holds or separate sealed containers; *Except for* mixed shipments of logs and raw lumber fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter and moved in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) of this section. Raw lumber on the vessel's deck must be in a sealed container. 


(ii) The raw lumber must be consigned to a facility operating under a compliance agreement in accordance with § 319.40-8 that requires the raw lumber to be heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter or heat treated with moisture reduction in accordance with part 305 of this chapter before any cutting, planing, or sawing of the raw lumber, and within 30 days from the time the lumber is released from the port of first arrival. 


(c) *Tropical hardwoods*—(1) *Debarked.* Tropical hardwood logs and lumber that have been debarked in accordance with § 319.40-7(b) may be imported subject to the inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. 


(2) *Not debarked.* Tropical hardwood logs that have not been debarked may be imported if fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter prior to arrival in the United States. 


(3) *Not debarked; small lots.* Tropical hardwood logs that have not been debarked may be imported into the United States, other than into Hawaii, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands of the United States, if imported in a lot of 15 or fewer logs and subject to the inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. 


(d) *Temperate hardwoods.* Temperate hardwood logs and lumber (with or without bark) from all places except places in Asia that are east of 60° East Longitude and north of the Tropic of Cancer may be imported if fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter prior to arrival in the United States and subject to the inspection and other requirements of § 319.40-9. 


(e) *Regulated articles associated with exclusively tropical climate pests.* Regulated articles that have been identified by a plant pest risk assessment as associated solely with plant pests that can successfully become established only in tropical or subtropical climates may be imported if: 


(1) The regulated article is imported only to a destination in the continental United States; and, 


(2) the regulated article is not imported into any tropical or subtropical areas of the United States specified in the permit. 


(f) Cross-ties (railroad ties) from all places, except places in Asia that are east of 60° East Longitude and north of the Tropic of Cancer, may be imported if completely free of bark and accompanied by an importer document stating that the cross-ties will be pressure treated with a preservative within 30 days following the date of importation at a U.S. facility under compliance agreement. Cross-ties (railroad ties) may also be imported if heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.


(g) through (k) [Reserved]


(l) *Cross-ties (railroad ties) and pine and fir lumber from Mexican States adjacent to the United States/Mexico border.*1 Cross-ties (railroad ties) 8 inches or less at maximum thickness and lumber derived from pine and fir may be imported from Mexican States adjacent to the United States/Mexico border into the United States if they:


(1) Originate from Mexican States adjacent to the United States/Mexico border;


(2) Are 100 percent free of bark; and


(3) Are fumigated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter prior to arrival in the United States.


(m) [Reserved]


(n) *Regulated articles of the genus Fraxinus from Canada.* Except for articles prohibited under paragraph (n)(4) of this section, regulated articles of the genus *Fraxinus* (ash) from Canada may be imported in accordance with this paragraph (n) and subject to the certification requirements in § 319.40-2(a) and the inspection and other requirements in § 319.40-9. Articles being moved from counties or municipal regional counties in Canada not regulated for the emerald ash borer (EAB) may not transit an EAB-regulated area in Canada en route to the United States unless they are moving directly through the EAB-regulated area without stopping (except for refueling or for traffic conditions, such as traffic lights or stop signs). If these articles are being moved through the regulated area between May 1 and August 31 or when the ambient air temperature is 40 °F or higher, they must be in an enclosed vehicle or completely covered to prevent access by the emerald ash borer.


(1) Firewood of all hardwood (non-coniferous) species, and ash logs and wood, including cants and stumps, that originate in a county or municipal regional county regulated for the emerald ash borer within a Province or Territory regulated by the Canadian Government for the emerald ash borer require a permit issued under § 319.40-2(a) and must be accompanied by a certificate bearing an additional declaration that the articles in the shipment were:


(i) Debarked, and vascular cambium removed to a depth of 1.27 cm (
1/2 inch) during the debarking process; or


(ii) Heat treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter. The phytosanitary certificate accompanying such articles must describe the treatment method employed.


(2) Firewood of all hardwood (non-coniferous) species, and ash logs and wood, including cants and stumps, that originate in a county or municipal regional county not regulated for the emerald ash borer within a Province or Territory regulated for the emerald ash borer require a permit issued under § 319.40-2(a) and must be accompanied by a certificate with an additional declaration stating that the articles in the shipment were produced/harvested in a county or municipal regional county where the emerald ash borer does not occur, based on official surveys.


(3) Firewood of all hardwood (non-coniferous) species, and ash logs and wood, including cants and stumps, that originate in a Province or Territory that is not regulated for the emerald ash borer must be accompanied by an importer document that certifies that the article originated in a county or municipal regional county free of the emerald ash borer.


(4) The importation of ash wood chips or bark chips larger than 1 inch diameter in any two dimensions that originate in a county or municipal regional county regulated for the emerald ash borer within a Province or Territory regulated for the emerald ash borer is prohibited.


(5) Ash wood chips or bark 1 inch or less in diameter that originate in an area regulated for the emerald ash borer within a Province or Territory regulated for the emerald ash borer must be accompanied by a permit issued under § 319.40-2(a) and a phytosanitary certificate with an additional declaration stating that the wood or bark chips in the shipment were ground to 1 inch (2.54 cm) or less in diameter in any two dimensions.


(6) Ash wood chips or bark chips that originate in a county or municipal regional county not regulated for the emerald ash borer within a Province or Territory regulated for the emerald ash borer must be accompanied by a permit issued under § 319.40-2(a), and a valid certificate with an additional declaration stating that the articles in the shipment were produced/harvested in a county or municipal regional county where the emerald ash borer does not occur, based on official surveys.


(7) Ash wood chips or bark chips that originate in a Province or Territory that is not regulated for the emerald ash borer must be accompanied by an importer document that certifies that the article originates in a Province or Territory free of the emerald ash borer.


(o) *Wooden handicrafts from China.* Wooden handicrafts more than 1 centimeter in diameter may be imported into the United States from China only in accordance with this paragraph and all other applicable provisions of this title. Wooden handicrafts less than 1 centimeter in diameter are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph, but are still subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter.


(1) *Treatment.* Wooden handicrafts must be treated in accordance with part 305 of this chapter.


(2) *Identification tag.* All packages in which wooden handicrafts are shipped must be labeled with a merchandise tag containing the identity of the product manufacturer. The identification tag must be applied to each shipping package in China prior to exportation and remain attached to the shipping package until it reaches the location at which the wooden handicraft will be sold in the United States.



---

[N] [60 FR 27674, May 25, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 69542, Dec. 17, 1998; 64 FR 59604, Nov. 3, 1999; 69 FR 52418, Aug. 26, 2004; 69 FR 55733, Sept. 16, 2004; 69 FR 61587, Oct. 20, 2004; 70 FR 33325, June 7, 2005; 72 FR 30467, June 1, 2007; 75 FR 4251, Jan. 26, 2010; 77 FR 12443, Mar. 1, 2012; 79 FR 19810, Apr. 10, 2014; 85 FR 61809, Oct. 1, 2020]




