# ยง 701.301   What do certain terms in this subchapter mean?

(a) As used in this subchapter, except where the context clearly indicates otherwise:


(1) *Act* or *LHWCA* means the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*), and includes the provisions of any statutory extension of such Act (*see* ยง 701.101(a) and (b)) pursuant to which compensation on account of an injury is sought.


(2) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor, or his authorized representative. 


(3)-(4) [Reserved]


(5) *Office of Workers' Compensation Programs* or *OWCP* or *the Office* means the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, referred to in ยง 701.201. The term *Office of Workmen's Compensation Programs* shall have the same meaning as *Office of Workers' Compensation Programs* (*see* 20 CFR 1.6(b)).


(6) *Director* means the Director of OWCP, or his or her authorized representative.


(7) *District Director* means a person appointed as provided in sections 39 and 40 of the LHWCA or his or her designee, authorized to perform functions with respect to the processing and determination of claims for compensation under the LHWCA and its extensions as provided therein and under this subchapter. The term District Director is substituted for the term *Deputy Commissioner* used in the statute. This substitution is for administrative purposes only and in no way affects the power or authority of the position as established in the statute.


(8) *Administrative Law Judge* means a person appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of 5 CFR part 930, who is qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 557 and is empowered by the Secretary to conduct formal hearings whenever necessary in respect of any claim for compensation arising under the LHWCA and its extensions.


(9) *Chief Administrative Law Judge* means the Chief Judge of the Office of Administrative Law Judges, United States Department of Labor, whose office is at the location set forth in 29 CFR 18.3(a).


(10) *Board or Benefits Review Board* means the Benefits Review Board established by section 21 of the LHWCA (33 U.S.C. 921) as amended and constituted and functioning pursuant to the provisions of chapter VII of this title and Secretary of Labor's Order No. 38-72 (38 FR 90), whose office is at the location set forth in 20 CFR 802.204.


(11) *Department* means the United States Department of Labor. 


(12) *Employer* includes any employer who may be obligated as an employer under the provisions of the LHWCA as amended or any of its extensions to pay and secure compensation as provided therein. 


(13) *Carrier* means an insurance carrier or self-insurer meeting the requirements of section 32 of the LHWCA as amended and of this subchapter with respect to authorization to provide insurance fulfilling the obligation of an employer to secure the payment of compensation due his employees under the LHWCA as amended or a statutory extension thereof. 


(14) The terms *wages, national average weekly wage, injury, disability, death,* and *compensation* shall have the meanings set forth in section 2 of the LHWCA. 


(15) *Claimant* includes any person claiming compensation or benefits under the provisions of the LHWCA as amended or a statutory extension thereof on account of the injury or death of an employee. 


(b) The definitions contained in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be considered to derogate from any definitions or delimitations of terms in the LHWCA as amended or any of its statutory extensions in any case where such statutory definitions or delimitations would be applicable. 


(c) As used in this subchapter, the singular includes plural and the masculine includes the feminine. 



---

[N] [38 FR 26860, Sept. 26, 1973, as amended at 42 FR 3848, Jan. 21, 1977; 50 FR 391, Jan. 3, 1985; 51 FR 4281, Feb. 3, 1986; 55 FR 28606, July 12, 1990; 70 FR 43233, July 26, 2005; 76 FR 82127, Dec. 30, 2011; 77 FR 37286, June 21, 2012]




