# ยง 403.2   Responsibilities.

In the carrying out of security procedures, responsibility falls on all personnel generally and on certain personnel in a more particular manner.


(a) *Individual.* Each employee of the Bank having access to classified material has an individual responsibility to protect such information. Classified information should be secured in approved equipment or facilities whenever it is not under the direct control of the employee.


(b) *Office and Division Heads.* These officials have the additional responsibility of a continuing review for ascertaining that security procedures are properly observed by the personnel comprising their respective offices.


(c) *Security Officer.* (1) The Security Officer has the responsibility for developing, inspecting, and advising on procedures and controls for safeguarding classified material originating in, received by, in transit through, or in custody of the Bank; the training and orientation of employees; the carrying out of inspections; and the destruction of obsolete and non-record material.


(2) The Security Officer shall be responsible for disseminating written material and conducting oral briefings to inform Bank personnel of the Order, Directive, and regulations. An explanation of the practical application of these procedures and the underlying policy objectives thereof shall be emphasized.


(d) *Security Committee.* (1) This Committee consists of the General Counsel, as Chairperson, the Security Officer, and other Bank employees, as designated by the President and Chairman (hereinafter referred to as the *Chairman)* and is responsible for the implementation and enforcement of the Order and the Directive. This Committee will act on all matters with respect to the Bank's administration of these regulations.


(2) All suggestions and complaints regarding the Bank's Information Security Program, including those regarding over-classification, failure to declassify, or delay in declassifying, not otherwise provided for herein, shall be referred to the Security Committee for review.


(3) The Security Committee shall have responsibility for recommending to the Chairman appropriate administrative action to correct abuse or violation of these regulations or of any provision of the Order or Directive thereunder, including but not limited to notification by warning letter, formal suspension without pay, and removal. Upon receipt of such a recommendation, the Chairman shall make a decision and advise the Security Committee of this action.




