# § 1.672(f)-3   Exceptions to general rule.

(a) *Certain revocable trusts*—(1) *In general.* Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to any portion of a trust for a taxable year of the trust if the power to revest absolutely in the grantor title to such portion is exercisable solely by the grantor (or, in the event of the grantor's incapacity, by a guardian or other person who has unrestricted authority to exercise such power on the grantor's behalf) without the approval or consent of any other person. If the grantor can exercise such power only with the approval of a related or subordinate party who is subservient to the grantor, such power is treated as exercisable solely by the grantor. For the definition of *grantor,* see § 1.671-2(e). For the definition of *related or subordinate party,* see § 1.672(c)-1. For purposes of this paragraph (a), a related or subordinate party is subservient to the grantor unless the presumption in the last sentence of § 1.672(c)-1 is rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence. A trust (or portion of a trust) that fails to qualify for the exception provided by this paragraph (a) for a particular taxable year of the trust will be subject to the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 for that taxable year and all subsequent taxable years of the trust.


(2) *183-day rule.* For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the grantor is treated as having a power to revest for a taxable year of the trust only if the grantor has such power for a total of 183 or more days during the taxable year of the trust. If the first or last taxable year of the trust (including the year of the grantor's death) is less than 183 days, the grantor is treated as having a power to revest for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the grantor has such power for each day of the first or last taxable year, as the case may be.


(3) *Grandfather rule for certain revocable trusts in existence on September 19, 1995.* Subject to the rules of paragraph (d) of this section (relating to separate accounting for gratuitous transfers to the trust after September 19, 1995), the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to any portion of a trust that was treated as owned by the grantor under section 676 on September 19, 1995, as long as the trust would continue to be so treated thereafter. However, the preceding sentence does not apply to any portion of the trust attributable to gratuitous transfers to the trust after September 19, 1995.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (a): 


(b) *Certain trusts that can distribute only to the grantor or the spouse of the grantor*—(1) *In general.* The general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to any trust (or portion of a trust) if at all times during the lifetime of the grantor the only amounts distributable (whether income or corpus) from such trust (or portion thereof) are amounts distributable to the grantor or the spouse of the grantor. For purposes of this paragraph (b), payments of amounts that are not gratuitous transfers (within the meaning of § 1.671-2(e)(2)) are not amounts distributable. For the definition of *grantor,* see § 1.671-2(e).


(2) *Amounts distributable in discharge of legal obligations*—(i) *In general.* A trust (or portion of a trust) does not fail to satisfy paragraph (b)(1) of this section solely because amounts are distributable from the trust (or portion thereof) in discharge of a legal obligation of the grantor or the spouse of the grantor. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, an obligation is considered a legal obligation for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(i) if it is enforceable under the local law of the jurisdiction in which the grantor (or the spouse of the grantor) resides.


(ii) *Related parties*—(A) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an obligation to a person who is a related person for purposes of § 1.643(h)-1(e) (other than an individual who is legally separated from the grantor under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance) is not a legal obligation for purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section unless it was contracted bona fide and for adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth (see § 20.2043-1 of this chapter).


(B) *Exceptions*—(*1*) *Amounts distributable in support of certain individuals.* Paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply with respect to amounts that are distributable from the trust (or portion thereof) to support an individual who—


(*i*) Would be treated as a dependent of the grantor or the spouse of the grantor under section 152(a)(1) through (9), without regard to the requirement that over half of the individual's support be received from the grantor or the spouse of the grantor; and


(*ii*) Is either permanently and totally disabled (within the meaning of section 22(e)(3)), or less than 19 years old.


(*2*) *Certain potential support obligations.* The fact that amounts might become distributable from a trust (or portion of a trust) in discharge of a potential obligation under local law to support an individual other than an individual described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B)(*1*) of this section is disregarded if such potential obligation is not reasonably expected to arise under the facts and circumstances.


(*3*) *Reinsurance trusts.* [Reserved]


(3) *Grandfather rule for certain section 677 trusts in existence on September 19, 1995.* Subject to the rules of paragraph (d) of this section (relating to separate accounting for gratuitous transfers to the trust after September 19, 1995), the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to any portion of a trust that was treated as owned by the grantor under section 677 (other than section 677(a)(3)) on September 19, 1995, as long as the trust would continue to be so treated thereafter. However, the preceding sentence does not apply to any portion of the trust attributable to gratuitous transfers to the trust after September 19, 1995.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (b): 


(c) *Compensatory trusts*—(1) *In general.* The general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to any portion of—


(i) A nonexempt employees' trust described in section 402(b), including a trust created on behalf of a self-employed individual;


(ii) A trust, including a trust created on behalf of a self-employed individual, that would be a nonexempt employees' trust described in section 402(b) but for the fact that the trust's assets are not set aside from the claims of creditors of the actual or deemed transferor within the meaning of § 1.83-3(e); and


(iii) Any additional category of trust that the Commissioner may designate in revenue procedures, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).


(2) *Exceptions.* The Commissioner may, in revenue rulings, notices, or other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter), designate categories of compensatory trusts to which the general rule of paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply.


(d) *Separate accounting for gratuitous transfers to grandfathered trusts after September 19, 1995.* If a trust that was treated as owned by the grantor under section 676 or 677 (other than section 677(a)(3)) on September 19, 1995, contains both amounts held in the trust on September 19, 1995, and amounts that were gratuitously transferred to the trust after September 19, 1995, paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(3) of this section apply only if the amounts that were gratuitously transferred to the trust after September 19, 1995, are treated as a separate portion of the trust that is accounted for under the rules of § 1.671-3(a)(2). If the amounts that were gratuitously transferred to the trust after September 19, 1995 are not so accounted for, the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 applies to the entire trust. If such amounts are so accounted for, and without regard to whether there is physical separation of the assets, the general rule of § 1.672(f)-1 does not apply to the portion of the trust that is attributable to amounts that were held in the trust on September 19, 1995.


(e) *Effective date.* The rules of this section are generally applicable to taxable years of a trust beginning after August 10, 1999. The initial separate accounting required by paragraph (d) of this section must be prepared by the due date (including extensions) for the tax return of the trust for the first taxable year of the trust beginning after August 10, 1999.



---

[N] [T.D. 8831, 64 FR 43276, Aug. 10, 1999, as amended by T.D. 8890, 65 FR 41334, July 5, 2000]




