# ยง 2402.9   Fees.

(a) *Fees generally required.* OSTP shall use the most efficient and least costly methods to comply with requests for documents made under the FOIA. OSTP shall charge fees in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section unless fees are waived or reduced in accordance with ยง 2402.10.


(b) *Calculation of fees.* In general, fees for searching, reviewing, and duplication will be based on the direct costs of these services, including the average hourly salary (basic pay plus 16% for benefits) of the personnel conducting the search, reviewing the records for exemption, or duplicating the records. Charges for time less than a full hour will be in increments of quarter hours.


(1) *Search fees.* Search fees may be charged even if responsive documents are not located or are located but withheld on the basis of an exemption. However, search fees shall not be charged or shall be limited as follows:


(i) *Educational, scientific, or news media requests.* No search fee shall be charged if the request is not sought for a commercial use and is made by an educational or non-commercial scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research, or by a representative of the news media.


(ii) *Other non-commercial requests.* No search fee shall be charged for the first two hours of searching if the request is not for a commercial use and is submitted by an entity that is not an educational or scientific institution, whose purpose is scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media.


(iii) *Requests for records about oneself.* No search fee shall be charged to search for records performed under the terms of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(f)(5).


(2) *Review fees.* Review fees shall be assessed only with respect to those requesters who seek records for a commercial use. A review fee shall be charged for the initial examination of documents located in response to a request to determine whether the documents may be withheld from disclosure and for the redaction of document portions exempt from disclosure. Records or portions of records withheld under an exemption that is subsequently determined not to apply may be reviewed again to determine the applicability of other exemptions not previously considered. The costs for such subsequent review are also assessable.


(3) *Duplication fees.* Records will be photocopied at a rate of ten cents ($0.10) per page. For other methods of reproduction or duplication, OSTP will charge the actual direct costs of producing the document(s). Duplication fees shall not be charged for the first 100 pages of copies unless the copies are requested for a commercial use.


(c) *Aggregation of requests.* When OSTP determines that a requester, or a group of requesters acting in concert, is attempting to evade the assessment of fees by submitting multiple requests in place of a single, more complex request, OSTP may aggregate any such requests and assess fees accordingly.


(d) *Fees likely to exceed $25.* If total fee charges are likely to exceed $25, OSTP shall notify the requester of the estimated amount to be charged. The notification shall offer the requester an opportunity to confer with the FOIA Public Liaison to reformulate the request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost. OSTP may administratively close a submitted FOIA request if the requester does not respond in writing within thirty (30) calendar days after the date on which OSTP notifies the requester of the fee estimate.


(e) *Advance payments.* Fees may be paid upon provision of the requested records, except that payment may be required prior to that time if the requester has previously failed to pay fees or if OSTP determines that the total fees will exceed $250. When payment is required in advance of the processing of a request, the time limits prescribed in ยง 2402.6 shall not be deemed to begin until OSTP has received payment of the assessed fees. If the requester has previously failed to pay fees or charges are likely to exceed $250, OSTP shall notify the requester of the estimated cost and:


(1) Obtain satisfactory assurance from the requester, in writing, of full payment; or


(2) OSTP may require the requester to pay the full amount of any fees owed or make an advance payment of the full amount of OSTP's estimated charges.


(3) If OSTP does not receive an adequate response, assurance, or advance payment within thirty (30) calendar days of a fee determination or notification issued under the authority of this section, OSTP will administratively close the corresponding request.


(f) *Other charges.* OSTP will recover the full costs of providing services, such as those enumerated below, when it elects to provide them:


(1) Certifying that records are true copies; and


(2) Sending records by special methods, such as express mail.


(g) *Remittances.* Remittances shall be made either via personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, or by postal money order. Remittances shall be made payable to the order of the Treasury of the United States and mailed to the Chief FOIA Officer, Office of Science and Technology Policy, Eisenhower Executive Office Building, 1650 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20504. Updates to this contact information will be made on the OSTP website.


(h) *Receipts and refunds.* OSTP will provide a receipt for fees paid upon request. OSTP will not refund fees paid for services actually rendered.




