# ยง 153.210   State establishment of a reinsurance program.

(a) *General requirement.* Each State is eligible to establish a reinsurance program for the years 2014 through 2016.


(1) If a State establishes a reinsurance program, the State must enter into a contract with one or more applicable reinsurance entities to carry out the provisions of this subpart.


(2) If a State contracts with or establishes more than one applicable reinsurance entity, the State must ensure that each applicable reinsurance entity operates in a distinct geographic area with no overlap of jurisdiction with any other applicable reinsurance entity.


(3) A State may permit an applicable reinsurance entity to subcontract specific administrative functions required under this subpart and subpart E of this part.


(4) A State must review and approve subcontracting arrangements to ensure efficient and appropriate expenditures of administrative funds collected under this subpart.


(5) A State must ensure that the applicable reinsurance entity completes all reinsurance-related activities for benefit years 2014 through 2016 and any activities required to be undertaken in subsequent periods.


(b) *Multi-State reinsurance arrangements.* Multiple States may contract with a single entity to serve as an applicable reinsurance entity for each State. In such a case, the reinsurance programs for those States must be operated as separate programs.


(c) *Non-electing States.* HHS will establish a reinsurance program for each State that does not elect to establish its own reinsurance program.


(d) *Oversight.* Each State that establishes a reinsurance program must ensure that the applicable reinsurance entity complies with all provisions of this subpart and subpart E of this part throughout the duration of its contract.


(e) *Reporting to HHS.* Each State that establishes a reinsurance program must ensure that each applicable reinsurance entity provides information regarding requests for reinsurance payments under the national contribution rate made under ยง 153.410 for all reinsurance-eligible plans for each quarter during the applicable benefit year in a manner and timeframe established by HHS.



---

[N] [77 FR 17245, Mar. 23, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 15525, Mar. 11, 2013]




