# § 502.69   Motions.

(a) In any adjudication, an application or request for an order or ruling not otherwise specifically provided for in this part must be by motion. After the assignment of a presiding officer to a proceeding and before the issuance of his or her recommended or initial decision, all motions must be addressed to and ruled upon by the presiding officer unless the subject matter of the motion is beyond his or her authority, in which event the matter must be referred to the Commission. If the proceeding is not before the presiding officer, motions must be designated as *petitions* and must be addressed to and ruled upon by the Commission.


(b) Motions must be in writing, except that a motion made at a hearing may be sufficient if stated orally upon the record.


(c) Oral argument upon a written motion may be permitted at the discretion of the presiding officer or the Commission.


(d) A repetitious motion will not be entertained.


(e) All written motions must state clearly and concisely the purpose of and the relief sought by the motion, the statutory or principal authority relied upon, and the facts claimed to constitute the grounds supporting the relief requested; and must conform with the requirements of subpart H of this part.


(f) Any party may file and serve a response to any written motion, pleading, petition, application, etc., permitted under this part except as otherwise provided respecting answers (§ 502.62), briefs (§ 502.214), exceptions (§ 502.227), and reply to petitions for attorney fees under the Equal Access to Justice Act (§ 502.503(b)(1)).


(g) *Dispositive and non-dispositive motions defined.* For the purpose of these rules, *dispositive motion* means a motion for decision on the pleadings; motion for summary decision or partial summary decision; motion to dismiss all or part of a proceeding or party to a proceeding; motion for involuntary dismissal; motion for initial decision on default; or any other motion for a final determination of all or part of a proceeding. All other motions, including all motions related to discovery, are non-dispositive motions. [Rule 69.]



---

[N] [77 FR 61524, Oct. 10, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 93835, Dec. 22, 2016]




