# § 831.305   Service with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality after June 18, 1952, but before January 1, 1966.

(a) *Definitions and special usages.* In this section—


(1) *Service in a nonappropriated fund instrumentality* is any service performed by an employee that involved conducting arts and crafts, drama, music, library, service (i.e., recreation) club, youth activities, sports or recreation programs (including any outdoor recreation programs) for personnel of the armed forces. Service is not creditable if it was performed in programs other than those specifically named in this subsection. 


(2) *Certification by the head of a nonappropriated fund instrumentality* can also be certification by the National Personnel Records Center or by an official of another Federal agency having possession of records that will verify an individual's service. 


(3) *CSRS* means the Civil Service Retirement System. 


(b) *Conditions for creditability.* Pursuant to Pub. L. 99-638 and provided the same period of service has not been used to obtain annuity payable from a nonappropriated fund retirement plan, an individual who performed service in a nonappropriated fund instrumentality is entitled to credit under CSRS if— 


(1) The service was performed after June 18, 1952, but before January 1, 1966; and 


(2) The individual was employed in a position subject to CSRS on November 9, 1986. 


(c) *Deposit for service is not necessary.* It is not necessary for an individual to make a deposit for service performed with a nonappropriated fund instrumentality to receive credit for such service. However, if the individual does not elect to make a deposit, his or her annuity is reduced by 10 percent of the amount that should have been deposited for the period of service (including any interest) as specified by sections 8334(e) (2) and (3) of title 5, United States Code. When an employee elects an alternative annuity and also elects to make the deposit, OPM will deem the deposit to be made for purposes of computing the alternative annuity. 


(d) *Crediting other service in a nonappropriated fund instrumentality.* Service not creditable under this section may become creditable for retirement eligibility purposes under the provisions outlined in 5 CFR part 847, subpart H.



---

[N] [52 FR 43048, Nov. 9, 1987, as amended at 68 FR 2178, Jan. 16, 2003]




