# § 4.35   Name and address.

(a) *American wine*—(1) *Mandatory statement.* A label on each container of American wine shall state either “bottled by” or “packed by” followed by the name of the bottler or packer and the address (in accordance with paragraph (c)) of the place where the wine was bottled or packed. Other words may also be stated in addition to the required words “bottled by” or “packed by” and the required name and address if the use of such words is in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Optional statements.* (i) In addition to the statement required by paragraph (a)(1), the label may also state the name and address of any other person for whom the wine was bottled or packed, immediately preceded by the words “bottled for” or “packed for” or “distributed by.”


(ii) The words defined in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)-(a)(2)(vi) may be used, in accordance with the definitions given, in addition to the name and address statement required by paragraph (a)(1). Use of these words may be conjoined, using the word “and”, and with the words “bottled by” or “packed by” only if the same person performed the defined operation at the same address. More than one name is necessary if the defined operation was performed by a person other than the bottler or packer and more than one address statement is necessary if the defined operation was performed at a different address.


(iii) *Produced* or *Made* means that the named winery:


(A) Fermented not less than 75% of such wine at the stated address, or


(B) Changed the class or type of the wine by addition of alcohol, brandy, flavors, colors, or artificial carbonation at the stated address, or


(C) Produced sparkling wine by secondary fermentation at the stated address.


(iv) *Blended* means that the named winery mixed the wine with other wines of the same class and type at the stated address.


(v) *Cellared, Vinted* or *Prepared* means that the named winery, at the stated address, subjected the wine to cellar treatment in accordance with § 4.22(c).


(b) *Imported wine*—(1) *Mandatory statements.* (i) A label on each container of imported wine shall state “imported by” or a similar appropriate phrase, followed immediately by the name of the importer, agent, sole distributor, or other person responsible for the importation, followed immediately by the address of the principal place of business in the United States of the named person.


(ii) If the wine was bottled or packed in the United States, the label shall also state one of the following:


(A) “Bottled by” or “packed by” followed by the name of the bottler or packer and the address (in accordance with paragraph (c)) of the place where the wine was bottled or packed; or


(B) If the wine was bottled or packed for the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported by and bottled (packed) in the United States for” (or a similar appropriate phrase) followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation; or


(C) If the wine was bottled or packed by the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported and bottled (packed) by” followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation.


(iii) If the wine was blended, bottled or packed in a foreign country other than the country of origin, and the label identifies the country of origin, the label shall state “blended by,” “bottled by,” or “packed by,” or other appropriate statement, followed by the name of the blender, bottler or packer and the place where the wine was blended, bottled or packed.


(2) *Optional statements.* In addition to the statements required by paragraph (b) (1), the label may also state the name and address of the principal place of business of the foreign producer. Other words, or their English-language equivalents, denoting winemaking operations may be used in accordance with the requirements of the country of origin, for wines sold within the country of origin.


(c) *Form of address.* The “place” stated shall be the post office address shown on the basic permit or other qualifying document of the premises at which the operations took place; and there shall be shown the address for each operation which is designated on the label. An example of such use would be “Produced at Gilroy, California, and bottled at San Mateo, California, by XYZ Winery,” except that the street address may be omitted. No additional places or addresses shall be stated for the same person unless:


(1) Such person is actively engaged in the conduct of an additional bona fide and actual alcoholic beverage business at such additional place or address, and


(2) The label also contains in direct conjunction therewith, appropriate descriptive material indicating the function occurring at such additional place or address in connection with the particular product.


(d) *Trade or operating names.* The trade or operating name of any person appearing upon any label shall be identical with a name appearing on the basic permit or other qualifying document.


(e) *Cross reference—country of origin statement.* For U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) rules regarding country of origin marking requirements, see the CBP regulations at 19 CFR parts 102 and 134.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-328, 57 FR 33114, July 27, 1992; 57 FR 37591, Aug. 19, 1992. Redesignated by T.D. ATF-953, 68 FR 39455, July 2, 2003; T.D. TTB-158, 85 FR 18722, Apr. 2, 2020]




