# § 700.17   Addresses for the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics.

The official addresses, unless otherwise noted, are as follows:


(a) *Correspondence and non-docket materials*—(1) *United States Postal Service mailing address.* Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (7401M), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.


(2) *Hand/courier delivery address.* Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, EPA East Bldg., 1201 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20004. This is not a mailing address. You must make arrangements with the person receiving your delivery.


(b) *Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics Docket (OPPT Docket)*—(1) *Electronic docket address.* Publicly available docket materials are available in the electronic docket at *http://www.regulations.gov.* Although listed in the docket index at regulations.gov, some information is not publicly available, e.g., Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Certain other material, such as copyrighted material, will be publicly available only at the OPPT Docket.


(2) *Physical location.* Environmental Protection Agency Docket Center (EPA/DC), Environmental Protection Agency, EPA West Bldg., Rm. 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001. The telephone number for the OPPT Docket is (202) 566-0280. This is not a mailing address. For instructions on visiting the docket, go to *http://www.epa.gov/dockets/contacts.htm.*

(3) *United States Postal Service mailing address.* Document Control Office (7407M), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460-0001.


(4) *Hand/courier delivery address.* Document Control Office, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, EPA East Bldg., Rm. 6428, 1201 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC. Deliveries are only accepted between 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., and special arrangements should be made for deliveries of boxed information. The telephone number for the Document Control Office is (202) 564-8930.




