# § 680.7   Prohibitions.

In addition to the general prohibitions specified in § 600.725 of this chapter, it is unlawful for any person to do any of the following:


(a) *Receiving and processing CR crab.* (1) Process any CR crab that has not been weighed by an RCR on:


(i) A scale approved by the State in which the RCR is located and that meets the requirements described in § 680.23(f); or


(ii) Onboard a catcher/processor RCR on a scale approved by NMFS as described in § 680.23(e).


(2) Receive CR crab harvested under an IFQ permit in any region other than the region for which the IFQ permit is designated, unless:


(i) Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab are received following the effective date of a NMFS-approved exemption pursuant to § 680.4(o), or


(ii) The IFQ permit and IFQ amount are subject to an exemption pursuant to § 680.4(p).


(3) Use IPQ on board a vessel outside of the territorial sea or internal waters of the State of Alaska.


(4) Use IPQ in any region other than the region for which the IPQ permit is designated, unless:


(i) Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab IPQ is used following the effective date of a NMFS-approved exemption pursuant to § 680.4(o), or


(ii) The IPQ permit and IPQ amount are subject to an exemption pursuant to § 680.4(p).


(5) Receive any crab harvested under a Class A IFQ permit in excess of the total amount of unused IPQ held by the RCR in a crab QS fishery, unless that RCR subsequently receives unused IPQ by transfer as described under § 680.41 that is at least equal to the amount of all Class A IFQ received by that RCR in that crab QS fishery before the end of the crab fishing year for which an IPQ permit was issued.


(6) Receive crab harvested under a Class B IFQ permit on a vessel if that vessel was used to harvest and process any crab in that crab QS fishery during the same crab fishing season.


(7) For an IPQ holder to use more IPQ than the maximum amount of IPQ that may be held by that person under § 680.42(b).


(b) *Landing CR crab.* (1) Remove retained and unprocessed CR crab from a vessel at any location other than to an RCR operating under an approved catch monitoring plan as described in § 680.23(g) unless that crab is accompanied by a signed landing receipt showing the crab was properly landed.


(2) Remove any CR crab processed at sea from any vessel before completing a landing report, as defined at § 680.5(c), for all such CR crab onboard.


(3) Fail to remove all processed crab harvested under a CPO or a CPC IFQ permit to an onshore location within the United States, accessible by road or regularly scheduled air service, and to weigh that crab product on a scale approved by the State in which the crab is weighed.


(4) Make an IFQ crab landing except by an individual who holds either a crab IFQ permit or a crab IFQ hired master permit issued under § 680.4 in his or her name.


(5) Make an IFQ crab landing without the following on board: a copy of the crab IFQ permit to be debited for the landing; and, if applicable, a copy of the crab IFQ hired master permit issued under § 680.4 in the name of the person making the landing.


(6) For a Crab IFQ hired master to make an IFQ crab landing on any vessel other than the vessel named on the Crab IFQ hired master permit.


(c) *Harvest crab.* (1) Harvest any CR crab with any vessel not named on a valid Federal crab vessel permit.


(2) Harvest CR crab with any vessel that does not use functioning VMS equipment as required by § 680.23.


(3) Harvest on any vessel more IFQ crab than are authorized under § 680.42.


(4) Harvest crab under a CVC or a CPC IFQ permit unless the person named on the IFQ permit is on board that vessel.


(5) Harvest crab under a CPO or CPC permit unless all scales used to weigh crab, or used by an observer for sampling crab, have passed an inseason scale test according to § 680.23(e)(1).


(6) For any person who is not an entity defined in § 680.40(c)(5)(ii), (c)(5)(iii), or (c)(5)(iv) to:


(i) Hold converted CPO QS.


(ii) Use the CPO IFQ derived from that converted CPO QS outside of a crab harvesting cooperative.


(d) *Recordkeeping and reporting.* (1) Fail to submit information on any report, application, or statement required under this part.


(2) Submit false information on any report, application, or statement required under this part.


(e) *Permits.* (1) Retain IFQ crab without a legible copy of a valid crab IFQ permit for that fishery on board the vessel.


(2) Begin a fishing trip for crab in a crab QS fishery with a vessel if the total amount of unharvested crab IFQ that is currently held in the IFQ accounts of all crab IFQ permit holders or Crab IFQ Hired Masters aboard that vessel in that crab QS fishery is zero or less.


(3) Have a negative balance in an IFQ or IPQ account for a crab QS fishery after the end of the crab fishing year for which an IFQ or IPQ permit was issued.


(f) *IPQ.* Use IPQ as collateral or otherwise leverage IPQ to acquire an ownership interest in Class B IFQ.


(g) *General.* (1) Possess, buy, sell, or transport any crab harvested or landed in violation of any provision of this part.


(2) Violate any other provision under this part.


(h) *Inseason action.* Conduct any fishing contrary to notification of inseason action closure, or adjustment issued under § 680.22. 



---

[N] [70 FR 10241, Mar. 2, 2005, as amended at 70 FR 33395, June 8, 2005; 73 FR 29982, May 23, 2008; 73 FR 76190, Dec. 15, 2008; 74 FR 25457, May 28, 2009; 74 FR 41095, Aug. 14, 2009; 76 FR 35786, June 20, 2011; 78 FR 28531, May 15, 2013; 81 FR 24518, Apr. 26, 2016; 85 FR 72583, Nov. 13, 2020; 89 FR 47877, June 4, 2024]






