# § 721.9700   Monosubstituted alkoxyaminotrazines (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance monosubstituted alkoxyaminotrazines (PMN P-86-1043) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.


(i) The significant new uses are:


(A) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1) and (a)(3), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).


(B) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(xi), and (g)(5). The provisions of § 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program and SDSs do not apply when the written program and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a SDS does not apply when a SDS is not required under § 721.72(c).


(C) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(D) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1) and (a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).


(E) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb], (b)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb], and (c)(4) [concern level of 10 ppb].


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) The chemical substance monosubstituted alkoxyaminotrazines (PMN P-86-1044) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.


(i) The significant new uses are:


(A) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iii) through (a)(5)(vii), and (a)(6)(i), (b) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], and (c).


(B) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (b)(2), (d), (e) [concentration set at 0.1 percent], (f), and (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), and (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(2)(v), (g)(4)(xi), and (5). The provisions of § 721.72(d) requiring employees to be provided with information on the location and availability of a written hazard communication program and SDSs do not apply when the written program and SDS are not required under § 721.72 (a) and (c), respectively. The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information on a SDS does not apply when a SDS in not required under § 721.72(c).


(C) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(D) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1) and (a)(2) and (b)(1) and (b)(2).


(E) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], (b)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb], and (c)(4) [concern level of 1 ppb].


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 26108, June 26, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




