# ยง 59.10-5   Cracks.

(a) Cracks extending from the calking edge of plates to the rivet holes of circumferential joints may be welded provided the cracks are veed out so that complete penetration of the weld metal is secured.


(b) Circumferential cracks from rivet hole to rivet hole in girth joints may be welded provided there are not more than three consecutive cracked ligaments nor more than a total of six cracked ligaments in any one girth joint.


(c) Cracks in staybolted plates may be welded provided they are located entirely within staybolted areas and the total length of any crack or series of consecutive cracks does not exceed two staybolt pitches.


(d) Cracks in furnaces may be welded provided any one crack does not exceed 12 inches in length and after completion the weld is stress-relieved. Cracks in corrugated furnaces may be repaired by welding provided any one crack does not exceed 20 inches in length.


(e) Fire cracks may be welded at riveted door openings extending from the edge of the plate, but not more than 2 inches beyond the centerline of the rivet holes.


(f) Cracks may be welded between tube holes in the shell of water tube boiler drums, provided there are not more than two cracks in any one row in any direction, nor more than a total of four cracks in a drum, and further provided the welding meets the requirements of this subchapter for Class I welded pressure vessels.


(g) Cracks that occur in superheater manifolds, water wallheaders, water drums, sectional headers, and other appurtenances including steam manifolds of water tube boilers may be repaired in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.


(h) All cracks permitted to be repaired under this subpart must be excavated to sound metal by grinding, flame or arc gouging or chipping out the defective metal to form a clean welding groove. Either a V groove or U groove wherein complete penetration of the weld metal is secured may be used. After excavation is completed and prior to welding, the excavated area must be examined by magnetic particle, dye penetrant, or other acceptable test method. When the reverse side of the weld is accessible, the root of the weld must be chipped or ground out to ensure a clean surface of the originally deposited metal and the resultant groove welded to obtain a sound weld having complete penetration. When the weld cannot be back chipped because the reverse side is inaccessible, a backing strip or other approved means of assuring full penetration must be employed.


(i) During welding of cracks, a preheat must be maintained by controlled temperatures. The degree of preheat must be determined by the rules listed in accordance with the materials P-number groupings of PW-38, Section I of the ASME BPVC, appendix R, Section VIII of the ASME BPVC, and Appendix D, Section IX of the ASME BPVC (all incorporated by reference; see ยง 59.01-2). For thicknesses exceeding three-fourths inch, suitable U grooves should be employed. A welding sequence must be used so as to equalize welding stresses.


(j) Postweld heat treatment of repaired cracks must be performed in accordance with the rules specified in PW-39, Section I of the ASME BPVC and UW-40, Section VIII of the ASME BPVC for boilers and pressure vessels respectively.


(k) Welded repairs of cracks must be nondestructively tested in accordance with the rules specified in PW-40, Section I of the ASME BPVC, and UW-51, Section VIII of the ASME BPVC for boilers and pressure vessels respectively.


(l) After cracks originating in tube or rivet holes are repaired by welding, the holes must be properly reamed and the weld reinforcing ground flush with the plate in way of rivet heads.


(m) Flat tube sheets in fire-tube boilers which have corroded or where cracks exist in the ligaments may be repaired by welding.


(n) Welding repairs to drums of power boilers, except as otherwise permitted in this subpart, are prohibited.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18887, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65189, Oct. 31, 2008]




