# § 50.73   Loss certifications.

(a) *General.* When an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible for a calendar year, the insurer may make claim upon Treasury for the payment of the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses. The insurer shall file an Initial Certification of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, and thereafter such Supplementary Certifications of Loss, on a form prescribed by Treasury, as may be necessary to receive payment for the Federal share of compensation for its insured losses.


(b) *Initial certification of loss.* An insurer shall use its best efforts to file with the Program the Initial Certification of Loss within 45 days following the last calendar day of the month when an insurer has paid aggregate insured losses that exceed its insurer deductible. The Initial Certification of Loss will include the following:


(1) Basic information, on a form prescribed by Treasury, about each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer. The form will include:


(i) A listing of each insured loss paid (or to be paid pursuant to § 50.73(b)(2)(i)) by the insurer by catastrophe code and line of business;


(ii) The total amount of reinsurance recovered from other sources;


(iii) A calculation of the aggregate insured losses sustained by the insurer above its insurer deductible for the calendar year; and


(iv) The amount the insurer claims as the Federal share of compensation for its aggregate insured losses.


(2) A certification that the insurer is in compliance with the provisions of section 103(b) of the Act and this part, including certifications that:


(i) The underlying insured losses reported pursuant to § 50.73(b)(1) either: Have been paid by the insurer; or will be paid by the insurer upon receipt of an advance payment of the Federal share of compensation as soon as possible, consistent with the insurer's normal business practices, but not longer than five business days after receipt of the Federal share of compensation;


(ii) The underlying claims for insured losses were filed by persons who suffered an insured loss, or by persons acting on behalf of such persons;


(iii) The underlying claims for insured losses were processed in accordance with appropriate business practices and the procedures specified in this subpart;


(iv) The insurer has complied with the disclosure requirements of §§ 50.10 through 50.14, and the cap disclosure requirement of § 50.15, for each underlying insured loss that is included in the amount of the insurer's aggregate insured losses; and


(v) The insurer has complied with the mandatory availability requirements of subpart C of this part.


(3) A certification of the amount of the insurer's direct earned premium, together with the calculation of its insurer deductible (provided this certification was not submitted previously with the Notice of Deductible Erosion).


(4) A certification that the insurer will disburse payment of the Federal share of compensation in accordance with this Subpart.


(5) A certification that if Treasury has determined a *Pro Rata* Loss Percentage (PRLP) (see § 50.112), the insurer has complied with applying the PRLP to insured loss payments, where required.


(c) *Supplementary certifications of loss.* If the total amount of the Federal share of compensation due an insurer for insured losses under the Act has not been determined at the time an Initial Certification of Loss has been filed, the insurer shall file monthly, or on a schedule otherwise determined by Treasury, Supplementary Certifications of Loss updating the amount of the Federal share of compensation due for the insurer's insured losses. Supplementary Certifications of Loss will include the following:


(1) A form as described in § 50.73(b)(1); and


(2) A certification as described in § 50.73(b)(2).


(d) *Supplementary information.* In addition to the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, Treasury may require such additional supporting documentation as required to ascertain the Federal share of compensation for the insured losses of any insurer.


(e) *State Residual Market Insurance Entities and State Workers' Compensation Funds.* A state residual market insurance entity or a state workers' compensation fund described in § 50.32 shall provide the Certifications of Loss described in § 50.73(b) and (c) for all of its insured losses to each participating insurer at the time it provides the allocated dollar value of the participating insurer's proportionate share of insured losses. In addition, at such time the state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund shall provide the certification described in § 50.73(b)(2) to Treasury. Participating insurers shall treat the allocated dollar value of their proportionate share of insured losses from a state residual market insurance entity or state workers' compensation fund as an insured loss for the purpose of their own reporting to Treasury in seeking the Federal share of compensation.




