# § 600.1104   Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI) crab species fee payment and collection system.

(a) *Purpose.* As authorized by Public Law 106-554, this section's purpose is to:


(1) In accordance with § 600.1012 of subpart L, establish:


(i) The borrower's obligation to repay a reduction loan, and


(ii) The loan's principal amount, interest rate, and repayment term; and


(2) In accordance with § 600.1013 through § 600.1016 of subpart L, implement an industry fee system for the reduction fishery.


(b) *Definitions.* Unless otherwise defined in this section, the terms defined in § 600.1000 of subpart L and § 600.1103 of this subpart expressly apply to this section. The following terms have the following meanings for the purpose of this section:


*Crab rationalization crab* means the same as in § 680.2 of this chapter.


*Crab rationalization fisheries* means the same as in § 680.2 of this chapter.


*Reduction endorsement fishery* means any of the seven fisheries that § 679.2 of this chapter formerly (before adoption of part 680 of this chapter) defined as crab area/species endorsements, except the area/species endorsement for Norton Sound red king. More specifically, the reduction endorsement fisheries, and the crab rationalization fisheries which (after adoption of part 680 of this chapter) correspond to the reduction endorsement fisheries, are:


(1) Bristol Bay red king (the corresponding crab rationalization fishery is Bristol Bay red king crab),


(2) Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area *C. opilio* and *C. bairdi* (the corresponding crab rationalization fisheries are two separate fisheries, one for Bering Sea snow crab and another for Bering Sea Tanner crab),


(3) Aleutian Islands brown king (the corresponding crab rationalization fisheries are the two separate fisheries, one for Eastern Aleutian Islands golden king crab and another for Western Aleutian Islands golden king crab),


(4) Aleutian Islands red king (the corresponding crab rationalization fishery is Western Aleutian Islands red king crab),


(5) Pribilof red king and Pribilof blue king (the corresponding crab rationalization fishery is Pribilof red king and blue king crab), and


(6) St. Matthew blue king (the corresponding crab rationalization fishery is also St. Matthew blue king crab).


*Reduction fishery* means the fishery for all crab rationalization crab, excluding CDQ allocations, in all crab rationalization fisheries.


*Sub-amount* means the portion of the reduction loan amount for whose repayment the borrower in each reduction endorsement fishery is obligated.


(c) *Reduction loan amount.* The reduction loan's original principal amount is $97,399,357.11.


(d) *Sub-amounts.* The sub-amounts are:


(1) For Bristol Bay red king, $17,129,957.23;


(2) For Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area *C. opilio* and *C. bairdi*, $66,410,767.20;


(3) For Aleutian Islands brown king, $6,380,837.19;


(4) For Aleutian Islands red king, $237,588.04;


(5) For Pribilof red king and Pribilof blue king, $1,571,216.35; and


(6) For St. Matthew blue king, $5,668,991.10.


(e) *Interest accrual from inception.* Interest began accruing on each portion of the reduction loan amount on and from the date on which NMFS disbursed each such portion.


(f) *Interest rate.* The reduction loan's interest rate shall be the applicable rate which the U.S. Treasury determines at the end of fiscal year 2005 plus 2 percent.


(g) *Repayment term.* For the purpose of determining fee rates, the reduction loan's repayment term is 30 years from January 19, 2005, but each fee shall continue indefinitely for as long as necessary to fully repay each subamount.


(h) *Reduction loan repayment.* (1) The borrower shall, in accordance with § 600.1012, repay the reduction loan;


(2) Fish sellers in each reduction endorsement fishery shall, in accordance with § 600.1013, pay the fee at the rate applicable to each such fishery's subamount;


(3) Fish buyers in each reduction endorsement fishery shall, in accordance with § 600.1013, collect the fee at the rate applicable to each such fishery;


(4) Fish buyers in each reduction endorsement fishery shall in accordance with § 600.1014, deposit and disburse, as well as keep records for and submit reports about, the fees applicable to each such fishery; except the requirements specified under paragraph (c) of this section concerning the deposit principal disbursement shall be made to NMFS not later than the 7th calendar day of each month; and the requirements specified under paragraph (e) of this section concerning annual reports which shall be submitted to NMFS by July 1 of each calendar year; and,


(5) The reduction loan is, in all other respects, subject to the provisions of § 600.1012 through § 600.1017.



---

[N] [70 FR 54656, Sept. 16, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 27210, May 10, 2006]




