# § 412.230   Criteria for an individual hospital seeking redesignation to another rural area or an urban area.

(a) *General*—(1) *Purposes.* Except as specified in paragraph (a)(5)—


(i) For fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2005, an individual hospital may be redesignated from a rural area to an urban area, from a rural area to another rural area, or from an urban area to another urban area for the purposes of using the other area's standardized amount for inpatient operating costs, the wage index value, or both.


(ii) Effective for fiscal year 2005 and subsequent fiscal years, an individual hospital may be redesignated from an urban area to another urban area, from a rural area to another rural area, or from a rural area to another urban area for the purposes of using the other area's wage index value.


(iii) An urban hospital that has been granted redesignation as rural under § 412.103 is considered to be located in the rural area of the state for the purposes of this section.


(2) *Proximity.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, to be redesignated to another rural area or an urban area, a hospital must demonstrate a close proximity to the area to which it seeks redesignation by meeting the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section, and submitting data requested under paragraph (c) of this section.


(3) *Special rules for sole community hospitals and rural referral centers.* To be redesignated under the special rules in this paragraph, a hospital must be approved as a sole community hospital or a rural referral center as of the date of the MGCRB's review.


(i) A hospital that is approved as a rural referral center or a sole community hospital, or both, does not have to demonstrate a close proximity to the area to which it seeks redesignation.


(ii) If a hospital that is approved as a rural referral center or a sole community hospital, or both, qualifies for urban redesignation, it is redesignated to the urban area that is closest to the hospital or to the hospital's geographic home area. If the hospital is closer to another rural area than to any urban area, it may seek redesignation to either the closest rural area or the closest urban area.


(iii) If a sole community hospital or rural referral center loses its special status as a result of redesignation, the hospital is considered to retain its special status for the purpose of applicability of the special rules in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(iv) A hospital that is redesignated under paragraph (a)(3) of this section may not be redesignated in the same fiscal year under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(4) *Application of criteria.* In applying the numeric criteria contained in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) and (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, rounding of numbers to meet the mileage or qualifying percentage standards is not permitted.


(5) *Limitations on redesignation.* The following limitations apply to redesignation:


(i) An individual hospital may not be redesignated to another area for purposes of the wage index if the pre-reclassified average hourly wage for that area is lower than the pre-reclassified average hourly wage for the area in which the hospital is located. An urban hospital that has been granted redesignation as rural under § 412.103 is considered to be located either in its geographic area or in the rural area of the State for the purposes of this paragraph (a)(5)(i).


(ii) A hospital may not be redesignated to more than one area, except for an urban hospital that has been granted redesignation as rural under § 412.103 and receives an additional reclassification by the MGCRB.


(iii) Beginning with wage index reclassification applications for FY 2003, if a hospital is already reclassified to a given geographic area for wage index purposes for a 3-year period, and submits an application for reclassification to the same area for either the second or third year of the 3-year period, that application will not be approved.


(b) *Proximity criteria.* A hospital demonstrates a close proximity with the area to which it seeks redesignation if one of the following conditions applies: 


(1) The distance from the hospital to the area is no more than 15 miles for an urban hospital and no more than 35 miles for a rural hospital. 


(2) At least 50 percent of the hospital's employees reside in the area. 


(c) *Appropriate proximity data.* For redesignation to an area, the hospital must submit appropriate data relating to its proximity to that area. 


(1) To demonstrate proximity to the area, the hospital must submit evidence of the shortest route over improved roads to the area and the distance of that route. 


(2) For employee address data, the hospital must submit current payroll records that include information that establishes the home addresses by zip code of its employees. 


(d) *Use of urban or other rural area's wage index*—(1) *Criteria for use of area's wage index.* Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section, to use an area's wage index, a hospital must demonstrate the following: 


(i) The hospital's incurred wage costs are comparable to hospital wage costs in an urban or other rural area;


(ii) The hospital has the necessary geographic relationship as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section;


(iii) One of the following conditions apply: 


(A) With respect to redesignations for Federal fiscal years 1994 through 2001, the hospital's average hourly wage is at least 108 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area in which the hospital is located;


(B) With respect to redesignations for Federal fiscal years 2002 through 2005, the hospital's average hourly wage is, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, at least 106 percent and in the case of a hospital located in an urban area, at least 108 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area in which the hospital is located; or


(C) With respect to redesignations for Federal fiscal year 2006 and subsequent years, the hospital's average hourly wage is, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, at least 106 percent and in the case of a hospital located in an urban area, at least 108 percent of the average hourly wage of all other hospitals in the area in which the hospital is located; 


(iv) One of the following conditions apply: 


(A) For redesignations effective before fiscal year 1999, the hospital's average hourly wage weighted for occupational categories is at least 90 percent of the average hourly wages of hospitals in the area to which it seeks redesignation. 


(B) With respect to redesignations for fiscal year 1994 through 2001, the hospital's average hourly wage is equal to at least 84 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area to which it seeks redesignation. 


(C) With respect to redesignations for fiscal years 2002 through 2009, the hospital's average hourly wage is equal to, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, at least 82 percent, and in the case of a hospital located in an urban area, at least 84 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area to which it seeks redesignation.


(D) With respect to redesignations for fiscal year 2010, the hospital's average hourly wage is equal to, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, at least 84 percent, and in the case of a hospital located in an urban area, at least 86 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area to which it seeks redesignation.


(E) With respect to redesignations for fiscal year 2011 and later fiscal years, the hospital's average hourly wage is equal to, in the case of a hospital located in a rural area, at least 82 percent, and in the case of a hospital located in an urban area, at least 84 percent of the average hourly wage of hospitals in the area to which it seeks redesignation.


(2) *Appropriate wage data.* For a wage index change, the hospital must submit appropriate wage data as follows:


(i) For redesignations effective through FY 2002:


(A) For hospital-specific data, the hospital must provide data from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes during the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year for which the hospital requests reclassification.


(B) For data for other hospitals, the hospital must provide data concerning the average hourly wage in the area in which the hospital is located and the average hourly wage in the area to which the hospital seeks reclassification. The wage data are taken from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes during the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year for which the hospital requests reclassification.


(ii) For redesignations effective beginning FY 2003:


(A) For hospital-specific data, the hospital must provide a weighted 3-year average of its average hourly wages using data from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes.


(*1*) For the limited purpose of qualifying for geographic reclassification based on wage data from cost reporting periods beginning prior to FY 2000, a hospital may request that its wage data be revised if the hospital is in an urban area that was subject to the rural floor for the period during which the wage data the hospital wishes to revise were used to calculate its wage index.


(*2*) Once a hospital has accumulated at least 1 year of wage data in the applicable 3-year average hourly wage period used by the MGCRB, the hospital is eligible to apply for reclassification based on those data.


(B) For data for other hospitals, the hospital must provide a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area in which the hospital is located and a weighted 3-year average of the average hourly wage in the area to which the hospital seeks reclassification. The wage data are taken from the CMS hospital wage survey used to construct the wage index in effect for prospective payment purposes.


(iii) For applications submitted for reclassifications effective in FYs 2006 through 2008, a campus of a multicampus hospital may seek reclassification only to a CBSA in which another campus(es) is located. If the campus is seeking reclassification to a CBSA in which another campus(es) is located, as part of its reclassification request, the requesting entity must submit the composite wage data for the entire multicampus hospital as its hospital-specific data.


(iv) For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2), if a new owner does not accept assignment of the existing hospital's provider agreement in accordance with § 489.18 of this chapter, the hospital will be treated as a new provider with a new provider number. In this case, the wage data associated with the previous hospital's provider number cannot be used in calculating the new hospital's 3-year average hourly wage. Once a new hospital has accumulated at least 1 year of wage data, it is eligible to apply for reclassification on the basis of those data.


(v) For applications submitted for reclassification effective in FY 2009 and thereafter, a campus of a multicampus hospital that is located in a geographic area different from the area associated with the provider number of the entire multicampus hospital may seek reclassification to another CBSA using the composite wage data of the entire multicampus hospital as its hospital-specific data. 


(3) *Rural referral center exceptions.* (i) If a hospital was ever approved as a rural referral center, it does not have to demonstrate that it meets the average hourly wage criterion set forth in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.


(ii) If a hospital was ever approved as a rural referral center, it is required to meet only the criterion that applies to rural hospitals under paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, regardless of its actual location in an urban or rural area.


(4) *Special dominating hospital exception.* The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(iii) of this section do not apply if a hospital meets the following criteria: 


(i) Its average hourly wage is at least 108 percent of the average hourly wage of all other hospitals in the area in which the hospital is located. 


(ii) It pays at least 40 percent of the adjusted uninflated wages in the MSA. 


(iii) It was approved for redesignation under this paragraph (d) for each year from fiscal year 1992 through fiscal year 1997. 


(5) *Single hospital MSA exception.* The requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section do not apply if a hospital is the single hospital in its MSA with published 3-year average hourly wage data included in the current fiscal year inpatient prospective payment system final rule.



---

[N] [55 FR 36766, Sept. 6, 1990]


