# § 1430.108   Margin protection payments.

(a) *When do MPP-Dairy payments trigger?* An MPP-Dairy payment will be made to a participating dairy operation for any consecutive 2-month period when the average actual dairy production margin for the consecutive 2-month period falls below the coverage level threshold in effect for the participating dairy operation. Payments may trigger at either the elected buy-up level if purchased by the dairy operation, or the catastrophic level.


(b) *How will payments be calculated?* Whether payments trigger at the catastrophic level or at the buy-up level, the payments will be calculated as explained in this paragraph. If the dairy operation only has catastrophic coverage or buy-up coverage at 90 percent, there will be a single calculation. If the dairy operation purchased buy-up coverage at less than 90 percent and the catastrophic level also triggers a payment, then there will be two calculations to determine the payment—first the calculation for the buy-up coverage percentage and then the calculation for the catastrophic level percentage, which is the balance of the established production history up to 90 percent; the result of these two calculations will be added together to determine the payment amount. Each calculation multiplies the payment rate times the coverage percentage times the production history divided by 6 as follows:


(1) *Payment rate.* The amount by which the coverage level exceeds the average actual dairy production margin for the 2-month period;


(2) *Coverage percentage.* The coverage percentage; and


(3) *Production history.* The production history of the dairy operation, divided by 6.


(c) *Example of payment for buy-up coverage of less than 90 percent when catastrophic level also triggers a payment.* If the dairy operation purchased buy-up level coverage at less than 90 percent of production history, then the dairy operation will receive a payment calculated at the buy-up level, plus the payment at the catastrophic level, if triggered, for the balance of 90 percent of its established production history. For example, if a producer purchased buy-up coverage at the 50 percent level, then that producer will also receive catastrophic level coverage for the next 40 percent for total coverage of 90 percent.



---

[N] [81 FR 21706, Apr. 13, 2016]




