# § 121.424   Pilots: Initial, transition, conversion, and upgrade flight training.

(a) Initial, transition, and conversion flight training for pilots must include the following:


(1) Flight training and practice in the maneuvers and procedures set forth in the certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program and in appendix E to this part, as applicable; and


(2) Extended envelope training set forth in § 121.423.


(b) In addition to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, initial flight training for pilots in command must include sufficient scenario-based training incorporating CRM and leadership and command skills to ensure the pilot's proficiency as pilot in command. The training required by this paragraph (b) may be completed inflight or in an FSTD.


(c) The training required by paragraph (a) of this section must be performed inflight except—


(1) That windshear maneuvers and procedures must be performed in an FFS in which the maneuvers and procedures are specifically authorized to be accomplished;


(2) That the extended envelope training required by § 121.423 must be performed in a Level C or higher full flight simulator unless the Administrator has issued to the certificate holder a deviation in accordance with § 121.423(e); and


(3) To the extent that certain other maneuvers and procedures may be performed in an FFS, an FTD, or a static airplane as permitted in appendix E to this part.


(d) Except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section, the initial flight training required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include at least the following programmed hours of inflight training and practice unless reduced under § 121.405;


(1) Group I airplanes—


(i) *Reciprocating powered.* Pilot in command, 10 hours; second in command, 6 hours; and 


(ii) *Turbopropeller powered.* Pilot in command, 15 hours; second in command, 7 hours. 


(2) *Group II airplanes.* Pilot in command, 20 hours; second in command, 10 hours. 


(e) If the certificate holder's approved training program includes a course of training utilizing an FFS under § 121.409 (c) and (d) of this part, each pilot must successfully complete—


(1) With respect to § 121.409(c) of this part—


(i) Training and practice in the FFS in at least all of the maneuvers and procedures set forth in appendix E of this part for initial flight training that are capable of being performed in an FFS; and


(ii) A proficiency check in the FFS or the airplane to the level of proficiency of a pilot in command or second in command, as applicable, in at least the maneuvers and procedures set forth in appendix F of this part that are capable of being performed in an FFS.


(2) With respect to § 121.409(d) of this part, training and practice in at least the maneuvers and procedures set forth in the certificate holder's approved low-altitude windshear flight training program that are capable of being performed in an FFS in which the maneuvers and procedures are specifically authorized.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 9509, 35 FR 90, Jan. 3, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 121-199, 53 FR 37697, Sept. 27, 1988; Amdt. 121-366, 78 FR 67840, Nov. 12, 2013; Amdt. 121-382, 85 FR 10923, Feb. 25, 2020; Amdt. 121-384, 85 FR 39070, June 30, 2020; Docket No. FAA-2019-0360; Amdt. No. 121-392, 89 FR 51427, June 18, 2024]






