# ยง 7401.102   Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) *General requirement.* Before engaging in any outside employment, with or without compensation, an employee of the MSPB, other than a special Government employee, must obtain written approval from the employee's supervisor and the concurrence of the Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO) or the alternate DAEO, except to the extent that the MSPB DAEO or alternate DAEO has issued an instruction or manual pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section exempting an activity or class of activities from this requirement. Nonetheless, special Government employees remain subject to other statutory and regulatory provisions governing their outside activities, including 18 U.S.C. 203(c) and 205(c), as well as applicable provisions of 5 CFR part 2635.


(b) *Definition of employment.* For purposes of this section, employment means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services, whether or not for compensation. It includes, but is not limited to, services as an officer, director, employee, agent, advisor, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. The definition does not include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service or civic organization, unless:


(1) The employee will receive compensation other than reimbursement of expenses;


(2) The organization's activities are devoted substantially to matters relating to the employee's official duties as defined in 5 CFR 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(B) through (E) and the employee will serve as officer or director of the organization; or


(3) The activities will involve the provision of consultative or professional services. *Consultative services* means the provision of personal services by an employee, including the rendering of advice or consultation, which requires advanced knowledge in a field of science or learning customarily acquired by a course of specialized instruction and study in an institution of higher education, hospital, or similar facility. *Professional services* means the provision of personal services by an employee, including the rendering of advice or consultation, which involves application of the skills of a profession as defined in 5 CFR 2636.305(b)(1) or involves a fiduciary relationship as defined in 5 CFR 2636.305(b)(2).


(c) *Procedure for requesting approval.* (1) The approval required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be requested by e-mail or other form of written correspondence in advance of engaging in outside employment as defined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) The request for approval to engage in outside employment or certain other activities shall set forth, at a minimum:


(i) The name of the employer or organization;


(ii) The nature of the legal activity or other work to be performed;


(iii) The title of the position; and


(iv) The estimated duration of the outside employment.


(3) Upon a significant change in the nature or scope of the outside employment or in the employee's official position within the MSPB, the employee must, within 7 calendar days of the change, submit a revised request for approval.


(d) *Standard for approval.* Approval shall be granted only upon a determination that the outside employment is not expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.


(e) *DAEO's and alternate DAEO's responsibilities.* The MSPB DAEO or alternate DAEO may issue instructions or manual issuances governing the submission of requests for approval of outside employment. The instructions or manual issuances may exempt categories of employment from the prior approval requirement of this section based on a determination that employment within those categories of employment would generally be approved and is not likely to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635. The DAEO or alternate DAEO may include in these instructions or issuances examples of outside employment that are permissible or impermissible consistent with this part and 5 CFR part 2635.




