# § 457.310   Targeted low-income child.

(a) *Definition.* A targeted low-income child is a child who meets the standards set forth below and the eligibility standards established by the State under § 457.320. 


(b) *Standards.* A targeted low-income child must meet the following standards: 


(1) *Financial need standard.* A targeted low-income child: 


(i) Has a household income, as determined in accordance with § 457.315 of this subpart, at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty level for a family of the size involved;


(ii) Resides in a State with no Medicaid applicable income level;


(iii) Resides in a State that has a Medicaid applicable income level and has a household income that either— 


(A) Exceeds the Medicaid applicable income level for the age of such child, but not by more than 50 percentage points; or 


(B) Does not exceed the income level specified for such child to be eligible for medical assistance under policies of the State plan under title XIX on June 1, 1997. 


(2) *No other coverage standard.* A targeted low-income child must not be— 


(i) Found eligible or potentially eligible for Medicaid under policies of the State plan (determined through either the Medicaid application process or the screening process described at § 457.350), except for eligibility under § 435.214 of this chapter (related to coverage for family planning services);


(ii) Covered under a group health plan or under health insurance coverage, as defined in section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act, unless the plan or health insurance coverage program has been in operation since before July 1, 1997 and is administered by a State that receives no Federal funds for the program's operation. A child is not considered covered under a group health plan or health insurance coverage if the child does not have reasonable geographic access to care under that plan. 


(3) For purposes of this section, policies of the State plan under title XIX plan include policies under a Statewide demonstration project under section 1115(a) of the Act other than a demonstration project that covered an expanded group of eligible children but that either— 


(i) Did not provide inpatient hospital coverage; or 


(ii) Limited eligibility to children previously enrolled in Medicaid, imposed premiums as a condition of initial or continued enrollment, and did not impose a general time limit on eligibility. 


(c) *Exclusions.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the following groups are excluded from the definition of targeted low-income children: 


(1) *Children eligible for certain State health benefits coverage.* (i) A targeted low-income child may not be eligible for health benefits coverage under a State health benefits plan in the State on the basis of a family member's employment with a public agency, even if the family declines to accept the coverage. 


(ii) A child is considered eligible for health benefits coverage under a State health benefits plan if a more than nominal contribution to the cost of health benefits coverage under a State health benefits plan is available from the State or public agency with respect to the child or would have been available from those sources on November 8, 1999. A contribution is considered more than nominal if the State or public agency makes a contribution toward the cost of an employee's dependent(s) that is $10 per family, per month, more than the State or public agency's contribution toward the cost of covering the employee only. 


(2) *Residents of an institution.* A child must not be— 


(i) An inmate of a public institution as defined at § 435.1010 of this chapter; or 


(ii) A patient in an institution for mental diseases, as defined at § 435.1010 of this chapter, at the time of initial application or any redetermination of eligibility. 


(d) A targeted low-income child must also include any child enrolled in Medicaid on December 31, 2013 who is determined to be ineligible for Medicaid as a result of the elimination of income disregards as specified under § 435.603(g) of this chapter, regardless of any other standards set forth in this section except those in paragraph (c) of this section. Such a child shall continue to be a targeted low-income child under this paragraph until the date of the child's next renewal under § 457.343 of this subpart.



---

[N] [66 FR 2675, Jan. 11, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 39229, July 12, 2006; 77 FR 17214, Mar. 23, 2012; 81 FR 86463, Nov. 30, 2016]




