# ยง 95.18   Wool, hair, and bristles; requirements for unrestricted entry.

Wool, hair, or bristles derived from ruminants and/or swine which do not meet the conditions or requirements specified in any one of paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section shall not be imported except subject to handling and treatment in accordance with ยง 95.19 after their arrival at the port of entry: *Provided, however,* That no bloodstained wool, hair, or bristles shall be imported under any condition: 


(a) Such wool, hair, or bristles may be imported without other restriction if originating in and shipped directly from a region not declared by the Secretary of Agriculture to be infected with foot-and-mouth disease. 


(b) Wool or hair clipped from live animals or pulled wool or hair may be imported without other restriction if the said wool or hair is reasonably free from animal manure in the form of dung locks or otherwise. 


(c) Wool, hair, or bristles taken from sheep, goats, cattle, or swine, when such animals have been slaughtered under national government inspection in a region 
3 and in an abattoir in which is maintained an inspection service determined by the Secretary of Agriculture to be adequate to assure that such materials have been removed from animals found at time of slaughter to be free from anthrax and foot-and-mouth disease, and to assure further the identity of such materials until loaded upon the transporting vessel, may be imported without other restriction if accompanied by a certificate bearing the seal of the proper department of said national government and signed by an official veterinary inspector of such region showing that the therein described wool, hair, or bristles were taken from animals slaughtered in such specified abattoir and found free from anthrax and foot-and-mouth disease.


(d) Wool, hair, or bristles which have been scoured, thoroughly washed, or dyed may be imported without other restriction. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5981, June 13, 1963, as amended at 48 FR 57472, Dec. 30, 1983; 62 FR 56024, Oct. 28, 1997; 74 FR 66226, Dec. 15, 2009. Redesignated and amended at 78 FR 73003, 73006, Dec. 4, 2013; 83 FR 15494, Apr. 11, 2018]




