# § 647.22   How does the Secretary evaluate prior experience?

(a) In the case of an applicant described in § 647.20(a)(2)(i), the Secretary—


(1) Evaluates an applicant's performance under its expiring McNair project;


(2) Uses the approved project objectives for the applicant's expiring McNair grant and the information the applicant submitted in its annual performance reports (APRs) to determine the number of PE points; and


(3) May adjust a calculated PE score or decide not to award PE points if other information such as audit reports, site visit reports, and project evaluation reports indicates the APR data used to calculate PE are incorrect.


(b) The Secretary does not award PE points for a given year to an applicant that does not serve at least 90 percent of the approved number of participants. For purposes of this section, the approved number of participants is the total number of participants the project would serve as agreed upon by the grantee and the Secretary.


(c) The Secretary does not award any PE points for the criteria specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section (Number of participants) if the applicant did not serve at least the approved number of participants.


(d) The Secretary uses the approved number of participants, or the actual number of participants served in a given year if greater than the approved number of participants, as the denominator for calculating whether the applicant has met its approved objective related to paragraph (e)(2) of this section (Research and scholarly activities).


(e) For purposes of the PE evaluation of grants awarded after January 1, 2009, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's PE on the basis of the following outcome criteria:


(1) (3 points) *Number of participants.* Whether the applicant provided services to no less than the approved number of participants.


(2) (3 points) *Research or scholarly activities.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective for providing participants served during the project year with appropriate research and scholarly activities each academic year.


(3) (3 points) *Graduate school enrollment.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective with regard to the acceptance and enrollment in graduate programs of participants served during the project year who complete the baccalaureate program during the academic year.


(4) (4 points) *Continued enrollment in graduate school.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective with regard to the continued enrollment in graduate school of prior participants.


(5) (2 points) *Doctoral degree attainment.* Whether the applicant met or exceeded its objective with regard to the attainment of doctoral level degrees of prior participants in the specified number of years.



---

[N] [75 FR 65796, Oct. 26, 2010]




