# § 512.515   Geographic areas.

(a) *General.* CMS uses stratified random sampling to select the mandatory CBSAs included in TEAM.


(b) *Exclusions.* CMS excludes from the selection of geographic areas CBSAs that meet any of the following criteria:


(1) Are located entirely in the State of Maryland.


(2) Are located partially in Maryland, and in which more than 50 percent of the five episode categories tested in TEAM were initiated at a Maryland hospital between January 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023.


(3) Did not have at least one episode for at least one of the five episode categories tested in TEAM between January 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023.


(c) *Stratification.* (1) Based on the median for each of the following four metrics, CMS designates the CBSAs that are not excluded in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section as “high” and “low”:


(i) Average episode spend for a broad set of episode categories tested in the BPCI Advanced Model, as described in § 512.505, between January 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023.


(ii) Number of acute care hospitals paid under the IPPS between January 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023.


(iii) Past exposure to CMS' bundled payment models, which are Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI) Models 2, 3, and 4, as described in § 512.505, Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) as described in § 512.505, or BPCI Advanced between October 1, 2013 and December 31, 2022.


(iv) Number of Safety Net hospitals in 2022 that have initiated at least one episode between January 1, 2022 and June 30, 2023 for at least one of the five episode categories tested in TEAM.


(2)(i) CMS stratifies the CBSAs into mutually exclusive groups corresponding to the 16 unique combinations of these “high” and “low” designations.


(ii) CMS assigns selection probabilities ranging from 20 percent to 33.3 percent to each of the 16 strata, with a higher selection probability for strata containing CBSAs with a high number of safety net hospitals or low past exposure to bundles and a lower selection probability for all other strata.


(3)(i) CMS recategorizes outlier CBSAs in these 16 strata with a very high number of safety net hospitals into a 17th stratum.


(ii) CMS assigns a selection probability of 50 percent to the 17th stratum.


(4)(i) CMS recategorizes CBSAs still remaining in the first 16 strata with at least one hospital participating in BPCI Advanced or CJR as of January 1, 2024 or those located in the states of Vermont, Connecticut, or Hawaii into an 18th stratum.


(ii) CMS assigns a selection probability of 20 percent to the 18th stratum.


(d) *Random selection into TEAM.* CMS randomly selects mandatory CBSAs into TEAM from each of the 18 strata according to selection probabilities described in paragraph (c) of this section.






