# § 1.1(i)-1T   Questions and answers relating to the tax on unearned income certain minor children (Temporary).

*Q-1. To whom does section 1(i) apply?*

A-1. Section 1(i) applies to any child who is under 14 years of age at the close of the taxable year, who has at least one living parent at the close of the taxable year, and who recognizes over $1,000 of unearned income during the taxable year.


*Q-2. What is the effective date of section 1(i)?*

A-2. Section 1(i) applies to taxable years of the child beginning after December 31, 1986.


*Q-3. What is the amount of tax imposed by section 1 on a child to whom section 1(i) applies?*

A-3. In the case of a child to whom section 1(i) applies, the amount of tax imposed by section 1 equals the greater of (A) the tax imposed by section 1 without regard to section 1(i) or (B) the sum of the tax that would be imposed by section 1 if the child's taxable income was reduced by the child's net unearned income, plus the child's share of the allocable parental tax.


*Q-4. What is the allocable parental tax?*

A-4. The allocable parental tax is the excess of (A) the tax that would be imposed by section 1 on the sum of the parent's taxable income plus the net unearned income of all children of such parent to whom section 1(i) applies, over (B) the tax imposed by section 1 on the parent's taxable income. Thus, the allocable parental tax is not computed with reference to unearned income of a child over 14 or a child under 14 with less than $1,000 of unearned income. *See* A-10 through A-13 for rules regarding the determination of the parent(s) whose taxable income is taken into account under section 1(i). *See* A-14 for rules regarding the determination of children of the parent whose net unearned income is taken into account under section 1(i).


*Q-5. What is the child's share of the allocable parental tax?*

A-5. The child's share of the allocable parental tax is an amount that bears the same ratio to the total allocable parental tax as the child's net unearned income bears to the total net unearned income of all children of such parent to whom section 1(i) applies. See A-14.


*Q-6. What is net unearned income?*

A-6. Net unearned income is the excess of the portion of adjusted gross income for the taxable year that is not “earned income” as defined in section 911(d)(2) (income that is not attributable to wages, salaries, or other amounts received as compensation for personal services), over the sum of the standard deduction amount provided for under section 63 (c)(5)(A) ($500 for 1987 and 1988; adjusted for inflation thereafter), plus the greater of (A) $500 (adjusted for inflation after 1988) or (B) the amount of allowable itemized deductions that are directly connected with the production of unearned income. A child's net unearned income for any taxable year shall not exceed the child's taxable income for such year.


*Q-7. Will a child be subject to tax under section 1(i) on net unearned income (as defined in section 1(i) (4) and A-6 of this section) that is attributable to property transferred to the child prior to 1987?*

A-7. Yes. The tax imposed by section 1(i) on a child's net unearned income applies to any net unearned income of the child for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1986, regardless of when the underlying assets were transferred to the child.


*Q-8. Will a child be subject to tax under section 1(i) on net unearned income that is attributable to gifts from persons other than the child's parents or attributable to assets resulting from the child's earned income?*

A-8. Yes. The tax imposed by section 1(i) applies to all net unearned income of the child, regardless of the source of the assets that produced such income. Thus, the rules of section 1(i) apply to income attributable to gifts not only from the parents but also from any other source, such as the child's grandparents. Section 1(i) also applies to unearned income derived with respect to assets resulting from earned income of the child, such as interest earned on bank deposits.


*Q-9. For purposes of section 1(i), does income which is not earned income (as defined in section 911(d)(2)) include social security benefits or pension benefits that are paid to the child?*

A-9. Yes. For purposes of section 1(i), earned income (as defined in section 911(d)(2)) does not include any social security or pension benefits paid to the child. Thus, such amounts are included in unearned income to the extent they are includible in the child's gross income.


*Q-10. If a child's parents file a joint return, what is the taxable income that must be taken into account by the child in determining tax liability under section 1(i)?*

A-10. In the case of parents who file a joint return, the parental taxable income to be taken into account in determining the tax liability of a child is the total taxable income shown on the joint return.


*Q-11. If a child's parents are married and file separate tax returns, which parent's taxable income must be taken into account by the child in determining tax liability under section 1(i)?*

A-11. For purposes of determining the tax liability of a child under section 1(i), where such child's parents are married and file separate tax returns, the parent whose taxable income is the greater of the two for the taxable year shall be taken into account.


*Q-12. If the parents of a child are divorced, legally separated, or treated as not married under section 7703(b), which parent's taxable income is taken into account in computing the child's tax liability?*

A-12. If the child's parents are divorced, legally separated, or treated as not married under section 7703(b), the taxable income of the custodial parent (within the meaning of section 152(e)) of the child is taken into account under section 1(i) in determining the child's tax liability.


*Q-13. If a parent whose taxable income must be taken into account in determining a child's tax liability under section 1(i) files a joint return with a spouse who is not a parent of the child, what taxable income must the child take into account?*

A-13. The amount of a parent's taxable income that a child must take into account for purposes of section 1(i) where the parent files a joint return with a spouse who is not a parent of the child is the total taxable income shown on such joint return. 


*Q-14. In determining a child's share of the allocable parental tax, is the net unearned income of legally adopted children, children related to such child by half-blood, or children from a prior marriage of the spouse of such child's parent taken into account in addition to the natural children of such child's parent?*

A-14. Yes. In determining a child's share of the allocable parental tax, the net unearned income of all children subject to tax under section 1(i) and who use the same parent's taxable income as such child to determine their tax liability under section 1(i) must be taken into account. Such children are taken into account regardless of whether they are adopted by the parent, related to such child by half-blood, or are children from a prior marriage of the spouse of such child's parent.


*Q-15. Will the unearned income of a child who is subject to section 1(i) that is attributable to gifts given to the child under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act (UGMA) be subject to tax under section 1(i)?*

A-15. Yes. A gift under the UGMA vests legal title to the property in the child although an adult custodian is given certain rights to deal with the property until the child attains majority. Any unearned income attributable to such a gift is the child's unearned income and is subject to tax under section 1(i), whether distributed to the child or not.


*Q-16. Will a child who is a beneficiary of a trust be required to take into account the income of a trust in determining the child's tax liability under section 1(i)?*

A-16. The income of a trust must be taken into account for purposes of determining the tax liability of a beneficiary who is subject to section 1(i) only to the extent it is included in the child's gross income for the taxable year under sections 652(a) or 662(a). Thus, income from a trust for the fiscal taxable year of a trust ending during 1987, that is included in the gross income of a child who is subject to section 1(i) and who has a calendar taxable year, will be subject to tax under section 1(i) for the child's 1987 taxable year.


*Q-17. What effect will a subsequent adjustment to a parent's taxable income have on the child's tax liability if such parent's taxable income was used to determine the child's tax liability under section 1(i) for the same taxable year?*

A-17. If the parent's taxable income is adjusted and if, for the same taxable year as the adjustment, the child paid tax determined under section 1(i) with reference to that parent's taxable income, then the child's tax liability under section 1(i) must be recomputed using the parent's taxable income as adjusted.


*Q-18. In the case where more than one child who is subject to section 1(i) uses the same parent's taxable income to determine their allocable parental tax, what effect will a subsequent adjustment to the net unearned income of one child have on the other child's share of the allocable parental tax?*

A-18. If, for the same taxable year, more than one child uses the same parent's taxable income to determine their share of the allocable parental tax and a subsequent adjustment is made to one or more of such children's net unearned income, each child's share of the allocable parental tax must be recomputed using the combined net unearned income of all such children as adjusted.


*Q-19. If a recomputation of a child's tax under section 1(i), as a result of an adjustment to the taxable income of the child's parents or another child's net unearned income, results in additional tax being imposed by section 1(i) on the child, is the child subject to interest and penalties on such additional tax?*

A-19. Any additional tax resulting from an adjustment to the taxable income of the child's parents or the net unearned income of another child shall be treated as an underpayment of tax and interest shall be imposed on such underpayment as provided in section 6601. However, the child shall not be liable for any penalties on the underpayment resulting from additional tax being imposed under section 1(i) due to such an adjustment.


*Q-20. Does the phase-out of the parent's 15 percent rate bracket and personal exemptions under section 1(g), if applicable, have any effect on the calculation of the allocable parental tax imposed on a child's net unearned income under section 1(i)?*

A-20. Yes. Any phase-out of the parent's 15 percent rate bracket or personal exemptions under section 1(g) is given full effect in determining the tax that would be imposed on the sum of the parent's taxable income and the total net unearned income of all children of the parent. Thus, any additional tax on a child's net unearned income resulting from the phase-out of the 15 percent rate bracket and the personal exemptions is reflected in the tax liability of the child. 


*Q-21. For purposes of calculating a parent's tax liability or the allocable parental tax imposed on a child, are other phase-outs, limitations, or floors on deductions or credits, such as the phase-out of the $25,000 passive loss allowance for rental real estate activities under section 469(i)(3) or the 2 percent of AGI floor on miscellaneous itemized deductions under section 67, affected by the addition of a child's net unearned income to the parent's taxable income?*

A-21. No. A child's net unearned income is not taken into account in computing any deduction or credit for purposes of determining the parent's tax liability or the child's allocable parental tax. Thus, for example, although the amounts allowable to the parent as a charitable contribution deduction, medical expense deduction, section 212 deduction, or a miscellaneous itemized deduction are affected by the amount of the parent's adjusted gross income, the amount of these deductions that is allowed does not change as a result of the application of section 1(i) because the amount of the parent's adjusted gross income does not include the child's net unearned income. Similarly, the amount of itemized deductions that is allowed to a child does not change as a result of section 1(i) because section 1(i) only affects the amount of tax liability and not the child's adjusted gross income. 


*Q-22. If a child is unable to obtain information concerning the tax return of the child's parents directly from such parents, how may the child obtain information from the parent's tax return which is necessary to determine the child's tax liability under section 1(i)?*

A-22. Under section 6103(e)(1)(A)(iv), a return of a parent shall, upon written request, be open to inspection or disclosure to a child of that individual (or the child's legal representative) to the extent necessary to comply with section 1(i). Thus, a child may request the Internal Revenue Service to disclose sufficient tax information about the parent to the child so that the child can properly file his or her return.



---

[N] [T.D. 8158, 52 FR 33579, Sept. 4, 1987; 52 FR 36133, Sept. 25, 1987]




