# ยง 1282.20   Determination of compliance with housing goals; notice of determination.

(a) *Single-family housing goals.* The Director shall evaluate each Enterprise's performance under the low-income families housing goal, the very low-income families housing goal, the low-income areas housing goal, the low-income areas housing subgoal, and the refinancing mortgages housing goal on an annual basis. If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet a single-family housing goal established by this subpart, the Director shall notify the Enterprise in writing of such preliminary determination.


(b) *Multifamily housing goal and subgoals.* The Director shall evaluate each Enterprise's performance under the multifamily low-income housing goal, the multifamily very low-income housing subgoal, and the small multifamily low-income housing subgoal, on an annual basis. If the Director determines that an Enterprise has failed, or there is a substantial probability that an Enterprise will fail, to meet a multifamily housing goal or subgoal established by this subpart, the Director shall notify the Enterprise in writing of such preliminary determination.


(c) Any notification to an Enterprise of a preliminary determination under this section shall provide the Enterprise with an opportunity to respond in writing in accordance with the procedures at 12 U.S.C. 4566(b).



---

[N] [75 FR 55930, Sept. 14, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53433, Sept. 3, 2015]




