# § 1.50001   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart:


(a) *Advanced communications service.* The term “advanced communications service” means high-speed, switched, broadband telecommunications capability that enables users to originate and receive high-quality voice, data, graphics, and video telecommunications using any technology with connection speeds of at least 200 kbps in either direction.


(b) *Appropriate national security agency.* The term “appropriate national security agency” means:


(1) The Department of Homeland Security;


(2) The Department of Defense;


(3) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence;


(4) The National Security Agency; and


(5) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.


(c) *Communications equipment or service.* The term “communications equipment or service” means any equipment or service used in fixed and mobile networks that provides advanced communication service, provided the equipment or service includes or uses electronic components.


(d) *Covered communications equipment or service.* The term “covered communications equipment or service” means any communications equipment or service that is included on the Covered List developed pursuant to § 1.50002.


(e) *Determinations.* The term “determination” means any determination from sources identified in § 1.50002(b)(1)(i)-(iv) that communications equipment or service pose an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons.


(f) *Covered List.* The Covered List is a regularly updated list of covered communications equipment and services.


(g) *Reimbursement Program.* The Reimbursement Program means the program established by section 4 of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019, Public Law 116-124, 133 Stat. 158, codified at 47 U.S.C. 1603, as implemented by the Commission in § 1.50004.


(h) *Reimbursement Program recipient (or recipient).* The term “Reimbursement Program recipient” or “recipient” means an eligible advanced communications service provider that has requested via application and been approved for funding in the Reimbursement Program, regardless of whether the provider has received reimbursement funds.


(i) *Replacement List.* The Replacement List is a list of categories of suggested replacements for covered communications equipment or service.




