# ยง 165.1415   Safety Zone; Pacific Ocean, Kilauea Lava Flow Ocean Entry on Southeast Side of Island of Hawaii, HI.

(a) *Location.* The safety zone area is located within the Captain of the Port (COTP) Honolulu Zone (See 33 CFR 3.70-10) and encompasses all primary areas from the surface of the water to the ocean floor at the Kilauea active lava flow entry into the Pacific Ocean on the southeast side of the Island of Hawaii, HI. The entry point of the lava may change based on flow. The safety zone encompasses all waters extending 300 meters (984 feet) in all directions around entry points of lava flow into the ocean associated with the Kilauea active lava flow.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, designated representative means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the COTP Honolulu to assist in enforcing the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Regulations.* The general regulations governing safety zones contained in ยง 165.23 apply to this safety zone.


(1) All persons and vessels are required to comply with the general regulations governing safety zones found in this part.


(2) Entry into or remaining in this safety zone when enforced is prohibited unless authorized by the COTP Honolulu, or his designated representative.


(3) Persons or vessels desiring to enter the safety zone identified in paragraph (a) of this section should submit a written request to the COTP Honolulu before initial entry into the safety zone when the Coast Guard notifies the public of safety zone enforcement. The request must explain how the vessel will operate safely in proximity to lava. A typical request should note the vessel's condition, the operator's familiarity with the surrounding waters, and any specific safety practices for operating near the lava ocean-entry points. Persons authorized initial entry may, thereafter, contact the COTP Honolulu through his designated representatives at the Command Center via telephone: 808-842-2600 and 808-842-2601; fax: 808-842-2642; or on VHF channel 16 (156.8 Mhz) to request permission to transit the safety zone.


(4) If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the COTP Honolulu, or his designated representative, and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while transiting through or in the safety zone as well as maintain a safe distance from the lava hazards.


(5) The COTP Honolulu will provide notice of enforcement of the safety zone described in this section by verbal radio broadcasts and written notice to mariners. The Coast Guard vessels enforcing this section can be contacted on marine band radio VHF-FM channel 16 (156.8 MHZ). The COTP Honolulu and his or her designated representatives can be contacted at telephone number listed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(6) The Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2017-0234, 83 FR 21882, May 11, 2018. Redesignated as ยง 165.1415 by USCG-2020-0304, 85 FR 58280, Sept. 18, 2020]




