# § 223.15   Provision of trees, portions of trees, or forest products to Indian tribes for traditional and cultural purposes.

(a) Pursuant to section 8105 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246, 122 Stat. 1651) [hereinafter the “2008 Farm Bill”], Regional Foresters or designated Forest Officers may, at their discretion, provide trees, portions of trees, or forest products to Indian tribes free of charge for traditional and cultural purposes provided that:


(1) The trees, portions of trees, or forest products are provided to tribal officials on behalf of an Indian tribe for traditional and cultural purposes; and


(2) The trees, portions of trees, or forest products will not be used for commercial purposes.


(b) The following definitions apply to this section:


*Indian tribe.* The term “Indian tribe” means any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or other community the name of which is included on a list published by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a-1).


*Traditional and cultural purpose.* The term “traditional and cultural purpose,” with respect to a definable use, area, or practice, means that the use, area, or practice is identified by an Indian tribe as traditional or cultural because of the long-established significance or ceremonial nature of the use, area, or practice to the Indian tribe.


*Tribal officials:* The term “tribal officials” means elected or duly appointed officials of Indian tribal governments.


(c) Requests for trees, portions of trees, or forest products made under this section must be submitted to the local Forest Service District Ranger's Office(s) in writing. Requests may be made:


(1) Directly by a tribal official(s) who has been authorized by the Indian tribe to make such requests; or


(2) By providing a copy of a formal resolution approved by the tribal council or other governing body of the Indian tribe.


(d) Requests for trees, portions of trees, and forest products made under this section must be directed to the appropriate Forest Service District Ranger(s)' Office from which the items are being requested. Tribal officials are encouraged to explain their requests to the Regional Forester or designated Forest Officer and, if necessary, describe how the request fits a traditional and cultural purpose. When an Indian tribe requests forest products located on two or more National Forests, authorized tribal officials should notify each of the affected Forest Service District Ranger's Offices of the requests made on other forests.


(e) Agency Line Officers and managers (who have been authorized by name through official Forest Service correspondence) are authorized to provide trees, portions of trees, and forest products under this section subject to the following limitations:


(1) District Rangers and Forest Officers may provide material not exceeding $25,000 in value in any one fiscal year to an Indian tribe;


(2) Forest Supervisors may provide material not exceeding $50,000 in value in any one fiscal year to an Indian tribe;


(3) Regional Foresters may provide material not exceeding $100,000 in value in any one fiscal year to an Indian tribe; and


(4) The Chief of the Forest Service may provide material exceeding $100,000 in value to an Indian tribe.


(f) A request for trees, portions of trees, or forest products under this section may be conditioned or denied for reasons including, but not limited to the following:


(1) Protecting public health and safety;


(2) Preventing interference with Forest Service and/or commercial operations;


(3) Complying with Federal and State laws and regulations;


(4) Ensuring sustainability; or


(5) Otherwise protecting National Forest System land and resources.


(g) All decisions made under this section must comply with the National Forest Management Act, relevant land management plans, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, all other applicable laws and regulations, and are subject to tribal treaty and other reserved rights and the savings provisions of the Cultural and Heritage Cooperation Authority (25 U.S.C. 3057(b)).





---

[N] [81 FR 65896, Sept. 26, 2016]




