# § 549.12   Testing.

(a) *Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)*—(1) *Clinically indicated.* The Bureau tests inmates who have sentences of six months or more if health services staff determine, taking into consideration the risk as defined by the Centers for Disease Control guidelines, that the inmate is at risk for HIV infection. If the inmate refuses testing, staff may initiate an incident report for refusing to obey an order.


(2) *Exposure incidents.* The Bureau tests an inmate, regardless of the length of sentence or pretrial status, when there is a well-founded reason to believe that the inmate may have transmitted the HIV infection, whether intentionally or unintentionally, to Bureau employees or other non-inmates who are lawfully present in a Bureau institution. Exposure incident testing does not require the inmate's consent.


(3) *Surveillance Testing.* The Bureau conducts HIV testing for surveillance purposes as needed. If the inmate refuses testing, staff may initiate an incident report for refusing to obey an order.


(4) *Inmate request.* An inmate may request to be tested. The Bureau limits such testing to no more than one per 12-month period unless the Bureau determines that additional testing is warranted.


(5) *Counseling.* Inmates being tested for HIV will receive pre- and post-test counseling, regardless of the test results.


(b) *Tuberculosis (TB).* (1) The Bureau screens each inmate for TB within two calendar days of initial incarceration.


(2) The Bureau conducts screening for each inmate annually as medically indicated.


(3) The Bureau will screen an inmate for TB when health services staff determine that the inmate may be at risk for infection.


(4) An inmate who refuses TB screening may be subject to an incident report for refusing to obey an order. If an inmate refuses skin testing, and there is no contraindication to tuberculin skin testing, then, institution medical staff will test the inmate involuntarily.


(5) The Bureau conducts TB contact investigations following any incident in which inmates or staff may have been exposed to tuberculosis. Inmates will be tested according to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.


(c) *Diagnostics.* The Bureau tests an inmate for an infectious or communicable disease when the test is necessary to verify transmission following exposure to bloodborne pathogens or to infectious body fluid. An inmate who refuses diagnostic testing is subject to an incident report for refusing to obey an order.




