# § 122.166   Arrival, departure, discharge, and documentation.

(a) *Liability for civil penalties.* Except as otherwise provided, any aircraft pilot violation of the requirements of section 433, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1433), with respect to the following actions shall be liable for civil penalties as provided by section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1436), and described in paragraph (c) of this section:


(1) Advance notification of arrival;


(2) Report of arrival;


(3) Landing of aircraft;


(4) Presentation of documentation;


(5) Departure from the port, place, or airport of arrival without authorization; or


(6) Discharge of passenger, or merchandise (to include baggage) without authorization.


(b) *Liability for criminal penalties.* Upon conviction, any aircraft pilot violating any of the Customs requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section shall, in addition to civil penalties be subject to criminal penalties as set forth in section 436, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1436), and described in paragraph (c) of this section. If the aircraft has or is discovered to have had on board any merchandise (other than the equivalent, for a vessel, of sea stores) the importation of which into the U.S. is prohibited, that person shall be subject to an additional fine as set forth in 19 U.S.C. 1436 and described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Civil and criminal penalties described*—(1) *Civil penalty.* The pilot of any aircraft who fails to comply with the requirements of this section is liable for a civil penalty of $5,000 for the first violation, and $10,000 for each subsequent violation. Any aircraft used in connection with any such violation is subject to seizure and forfeiture.


(2) *Criminal penalty.* In addition to the civil penalty prescribed for violation of this section, the pilot of any aircraft who intentionally fails to comply with the requirements of this section is liable, upon conviction, for a fine of not more than $2,000 or imprisonment for 1 year, or both. If the aircraft is found to have, or to have had, on board any merchandise the importation of which is prohibited, such individual is liable for an additional fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both.


(3) *Additional civil penalty.* If any merchandise, other than the equivalent of vessel sea stores, is imported or brought into the U.S. aboard an aircraft which has failed to comply with the requirements prescribed by this section, the pilot of the aircraft shall be liable for a civil penalty equal to the value of the merchandise, and the merchandise may be seized and forfeited, unless properly entered by the importer or consignee.




