# ยง 160.045-7   Design, construction, and performance of throwable PFDs.

(a) *General.* Every throwable PFD must conform to the requirements as accepted by the Commandant for listing and labeling by a recognized laboratory, and must be of such design, materials, and construction as to meet the requirements specified in this section.


(b) *Designs and constructions.* Throwable PFDs must not provide means for adjustment or close fitting to the body. Methods of construction must provide strengths, with reinforcements where necessary, to be adequate for the intended use and purpose of the device.


(c) *Materials.* All materials used in any device covered by this subpart must meet the applicable requirements of subpart 164.019 of this chapter, must be all new materials, must be suitable for the purpose intended, and must be at least equivalent to corresponding materials specified for standard buoyant cushions. Hardware or fastenings must be of sufficient strength for the purpose of the device and must be of inherently corrosion-resistant material, such as stainless steel, brass, bronze, certain plastics, etc. Decorative platings of any thickness are permissible. Fabrics, coated fabrics, tapes, and webbing must be either mildew-resistant or treated for mildew resistance. Buoyancy provided by inherently buoyant material must not be dependent upon loose, granulated material.


(d) *Standard construction.* A standard foam cushion that is designed to be thrown must be 2 inches or more in thickness and must have 225 or more square inches of top surface area.


(e) *Nonstandard construction.* A nonstandard throwable PFD must meet the requirements in ANSI/UL 1123 or ANSI/UL 1175 (both incorporated by reference, see ยง 160.045-5) and any additional requirements that the Commandant may prescribe to approve unique or novel designs.


(f) *Buoyancy.* (1) Ring life buoys must have 16
1/2 pounds or more of buoyancy.


(2) Foam cushions must have 18 pounds or more of buoyancy.


(3) A device other than those standard devices specified in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section must have 20 pounds or more of buoyancy.


(g) *Workmanship.* Throwable PFDs must be of first quality workmanship and must be free from any defects materially affecting their appearance or serviceability.






