# § 400.34   Examiner's review—application for production authority.

(a) The examiner shall conduct a review taking into account the factors enumerated in this section, § 400.27, and other appropriate sections of this part, which shall include:


(1) Conducting or participating in hearings scheduled by the Executive Secretary;


(2) Reviewing case records, including public comments;


(3) Requesting information and evidence from parties of record and others, as warranted;


(4) Developing information and evidence necessary for analysis of the threshold factors and the economic factors enumerated in § 400.27; and


(5) Conducting an analysis to include:


(i) An evaluation of policy considerations pursuant to §§ 400.27(a)(1) and (2);


(ii) An evaluation of the economic factors enumerated in §§ 400.27(a)(3) and 400.27(b), which shall include an evaluation of the economic impact on domestic industry, considering both producers of like products and producers of components/materials used in the production activity;


(iii) Conducting appropriate industry research and surveys, as necessary; and


(iv) Developing recommendations to the Board and submitting a report to the Executive Secretary, generally within 150 days of the close of the period for public comment (although additional time may be required in circumstances such as when the applicant or other party has obtained a time extension for a particular procedural step):


(A) If the recommendations are unfavorable to the applicant, they shall be considered preliminary and the applicant shall be notified in writing (via electronic transmission where appropriate) of the preliminary recommendations and the factors considered in their development. The applicant shall be given 45 days from the date of notification in which to respond to the recommendations and submit additional evidence pertinent to the factors considered in the development of the preliminary recommendations. Public comment may be invited on preliminary recommendations when warranted.


(B) If the response contains new evidence on which there has not been an opportunity for public comment, the Executive Secretary shall publish notice in the _Federal Register_ after completion of the review of the response. The new material shall be made available for public inspection and the _Federal Register_ notice shall invite further public comment for a period of not less than 30 days, with an additional 15-day period for rebuttal comments.


(C) If the factors considered for an examiner's recommendation(s) change as a result of new evidence, the applicable procedures of paragraphs (a)(5)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section shall be followed.


(b) *Methodology and evidence.* The evaluation of an application for production authority shall include the following steps:


(1) The first phase (§ 400.27(a)) involves consideration of threshold factors. If an examiner or reviewer makes a negative finding on any of the factors in § 400.27(a) in the course of a review, the applicant shall be informed pursuant to § 400.34(a)(5)(iv)(A). When threshold factors are the basis for a negative recommendation in a review of ongoing activity, the zone grantee and directly affected party shall be notified and given an opportunity to submit evidence pursuant to § 400.34(a)(5)(iv)(A). If the Board determines in the negative regarding any of the factors in § 400.27(a), it shall deny or restrict authority for the proposed or ongoing activity.


(2) The second phase (§ 400.27(b)) involves consideration of the enumerated economic factors, taking into account their relative weight and significance under the circumstances. Previous evaluations in similar cases shall be considered.



---

[N] [77 FR 12139, Feb. 28, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 8529, Feb. 8, 2024]




