# § 222.43   What notices and other information are required to create or continue a quiet zone?

(a)(1) The public authority shall provide written notice, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of its intent to create a New Quiet Zone or New Partial Quiet Zone under § 222.39 of this part or to implement new SSMs or ASMs within a Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone under § 222.41(c) or (d) of this part. Such notification shall be provided to: All railroads operating over the public highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone; the State agency responsible for highway and road safety; and the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety.


(2) The public authority shall provide written notification, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to continue a Pre-Rule Quiet Zone or Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zone under § 222.41 of this part or to continue an Intermediate Quiet Zone or Intermediate Partial Quiet Zone under § 222.42 of this part. Such notification shall be provided to: All railroads operating over the public highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone; the highway or traffic control or law enforcement authority having jurisdiction over vehicular traffic at grade crossings within the quiet zone; the landowner having control over any private highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone; the State agency responsible for highway and road safety; the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety; and the Associate Administrator.


(3) The public authority shall provided written notice, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the establishment of a quiet zone under § 222.39 or § 222.41 of this part. Such notification shall be provided to: All railroads operating over the public highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone; the highway or traffic control or law enforcement authority having jurisdiction over vehicular traffic at grade crossings within the quiet zone; the landowner having control over any private highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone; the State agency responsible for highway and road safety; the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety; and the Associate Administrator.


(b) *Notice of Intent*—(1) *Timing.* (i) The Notice of Intent shall be mailed at least 60 days before the mailing of the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment, unless the public authority obtains written comments and/or “no-comment” statements from each railroad operating over public highway-rail grade crossings within the quiet zone, the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety, and the State agency responsible for highway and road safety, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(ii) The Notice of Intent shall be mailed no later than February 24, 2008 for all Pre-Rule Quiet Zones and Pre-Rule Partial Quiet Zones governed by §§ 222.41(c) and (d) of this part, in order to continue existing locomotive horn sounding restrictions beyond June 24, 2008 without interruption.


(2) *Required Contents.* The Notice of Intent shall include the following:


(i) A list of each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone, identified by both U.S. DOT National Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Inventory Number and street or highway name, if applicable.


(ii) A statement of the time period within which restrictions would be imposed on the routine sounding of the locomotive horn (i.e., 24 hours or from 10 p.m. until 7 a.m.).


(iii) A brief explanation of the public authority's tentative plans for implementing improvements within the proposed quiet zone.


(iv) The name and title of the person who will act as point of contact during the quiet zone development process and the manner in which that person can be contacted.


(v) A list of the names and addresses of each party that will receive notification in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(3) *60-day comment period.* (i) A party that receives a copy of the public authority's Notice of Intent may submit information or comments about the proposed quiet zone to the public authority during the 60-day period after the date on which the Notice of Intent was mailed.


(ii) The 60-day comment period established under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section may terminate when the public authority obtains from each railroad operating over public highway-rail grade crossings within the proposed quiet zone, the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety, and the State agency responsible for highway and road safety:


(A) Written comments; or


(B) Written statements that the railroad and State agency do not have any comments on the Notice of Intent (“no-comment statements”).


(c) *Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation*—(1) *Timing.* (i) In order to prevent the resumption of locomotive horn sounding on June 24, 2005, the Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation under § 222.41 or § 222.42 of this part shall be served no later than June 3, 2005.


(ii) If the Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation under § 222.41 or § 222.42 of this part is mailed after June 3, 2005, the Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation shall state on which date locomotive horn use at grade crossings within the quiet zone shall cease, but in no event shall that date be earlier than 21 days after the date of mailing.


(2) *Required contents.* The Notice of Quiet Zone Continuation shall include the following:


(i) A list of each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone, identified by both U.S. DOT National Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Inventory Number and street or highway name.


(ii) A specific reference to the regulatory provision that provides the basis for quiet zone continuation, citing as appropriate, § 222.41 or § 222.42 of this part.


(iii) A statement of the time period within which restrictions on the routine sounding of the locomotive horn will be imposed (i.e., 24 hours or nighttime hours only.)


(iv) An accurate and complete Grade Crossing Inventory Form for each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone that reflects conditions currently existing at the crossing.


(v) The name and title of the person responsible for monitoring compliance with the requirements of this part and the manner in which that person can be contacted.


(vi) A list of the names and addresses of each party that will receive notification in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(vii) A statement signed by the chief executive officer of each public authority participating in the continuation of the quiet zone, in which the chief executive officer certifies that the information submitted by the public authority is accurate and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief.


(d) *Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment*—(1) *Timing.* (i) The Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment shall provide the date upon which the quiet zone will be established, but in no event shall the date be earlier than 21 days after the date of mailing.


(ii) If the public authority was required to provide a Notice of Intent, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment shall not be mailed less than 60 days after the date on which the Notice of Intent was mailed, unless the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment contains a written statement affirming that written comments and/or “no-comment” statements have been received from each railroad operating over public highway-rail grade crossings within the proposed quiet zone, the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety, and the State agency responsible for highway and road safety, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(2) *Required contents.* The Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment shall include the following:


(i) A list of each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone, identified by both U.S. DOT National Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Inventory Number and street or highway name, if applicable.


(ii) A specific reference to the regulatory provision that provides the basis for quiet zone establishment, citing as appropriate, § 222.39(a)(1), 222.39(a)(2)(i), 222.39(a)(2)(ii), 222.39(a)(3), 222.39(b), 222.41(a)(1)(i), § 222.41(a)(1)(ii), 222.41(a)(1)(iii), 222.41(a)(1)(iv), 222.41(b)(1)(i), 222.41(b)(1)(ii), 222.41(b)(1)(iii), or 222.41(b)(1)(iv) of this part.


(A) If the Notice contains a specific reference to § 222.39(a)(2)(i), 222.39(a)(2)(ii), 222.39(a)(3), § 222.41(a)(1)(ii), 222.41(a)(1)(iii), 222.41(a)(1)(iv), 222.41(b)(1)(ii), 222.41(b)(1)(iii), or 222.41(b)(1)(iv) of this part, it shall include a copy of the FRA Web page that contains the quiet zone data upon which the public authority is relying (*http://www.fra.dot.gov/us/content/1337*).


(B) If the Notice contains a specific reference to § 222.39(b) of this part, it shall include a copy of FRA's notification of approval.


(iii) If a diagnostic team review was required under § 222.25 or § 222.27 of this part, the Notice shall include a statement affirming that the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety and all affected railroads were provided an opportunity to participate in the diagnostic team review. The Notice shall also include a list of recommendations made by the diagnostic team.


(iv) A statement of the time period within which restrictions on the routine sounding of the locomotive horn will be imposed (i.e., 24 hours or from 10 p.m. until 7 a.m.).


(v) An accurate and complete Grade Crossing Inventory Form for each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone that reflects the conditions existing at the crossing before any new SSMs or ASMs were implemented.


(vi) An accurate, complete and current Grade Crossing Inventory Form for each public, private, and pedestrian grade crossing within the quiet zone that reflects SSMs and ASMs in place upon establishment of the quiet zone. SSMs and ASMs that cannot be fully described on the Inventory Form shall be separately described.


(vii) If the public authority was required to provide a Notice of Intent, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment shall contain a written statement affirming that the Notice of Intent was provided in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section. This statement shall also state the date on which the Notice of Intent was mailed.


(viii) If the public authority was required to provide a Notice of Intent, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and the Notice of Intent was mailed less than 60 days before the mailing of the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment, the Notice of Quiet Zone Establishment shall also contain a written statement affirming that written comments and/or “no-comment” statements have been received from each railroad operating over public highway-rail grade crossings within the proposed quiet zone, the State agency responsible for grade crossing safety, and the State agency responsible for highway and road safety, in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(ix) The name and title of the person responsible for monitoring compliance with the requirements of this part and the manner in which that person can be contacted.


(x) A list of the names and addresses of each party that shall be notified in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(xi) A statement signed by the chief executive officer of each public authority participating in the establishment of the quiet zone, in which the chief executive officer shall certify that the information submitted by the public authority is accurate and complete to the best of his/her knowledge and belief.




