# § 438.604   Data, information, and documentation that must be submitted.

(a) *Specified data, information, and documentation.* The State must require any MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity to submit to the State the following data:


(1) Encounter data in the form and manner described in § 438.818.


(2) Data on the basis of which the State certifies the actuarial soundness of capitation rates to an MCO, PIHP or PAHP under § 438.4, including base data described in § 438.5(c) that is generated by the MCO, PIHP or PAHP.


(3) Data on the basis of which the State determines the compliance of the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP with the medical loss ratio requirement described in § 438.8.


(4) Data on the basis of which the State determines that the MCO, PIHP or PAHP has made adequate provision against the risk of insolvency as required under § 438.116.


(5) Documentation described in § 438.207(b) on which the State bases its certification that the MCO, PIHP or PAHP has complied with the State's requirements for availability and accessibility of services, including the adequacy of the provider network, as set forth in § 438.206.


(6) Information on ownership and control described in § 455.104 of this chapter from MCOs, PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs, PCCM entities, and subcontractors as governed by § 438.230.


(7) The annual report of overpayment recoveries as required in § 438.608(d)(3).


(b) *Additional data, documentation, or information.* In addition to the data, documentation, or information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity must submit any other data, documentation, or information relating to the performance of the entity's obligations under this part required by the State or the Secretary.



---

[N] [81 FR 27853, May 6, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 39, Jan. 3, 2017]




