# § 721.9005   2-Pyrrolidinone, 1,1′-(2-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl)bis-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 2-pyrrolidinone, 1,1′-(2-methyl-1,5-pentanediyl)bis- (PMN P-93-761; CAS No. 146453-62-5) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i) (There must be no permeation of the PMN substance greater than 0.08 grams (g)/minutes (min) centimeter (cm
2) after 8 hours of testing in accordance with the most current version of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) F739 “Standard Test Method for Resistance of Protective Clothing Materials to Permeation by Liquids or Gases.” The results of all glove permeation testing must be reported in accordance with the most current version of (ASTM) F1194 “Guide for Documenting the Results of Chemical Permeation Testing of Protective Clothing Materials.” Manufacturers, importers, and processors must submit such glove test data to the Agency and must receive written Agency approval for each type of glove tested prior to use of such gloves. The following gloves have been tested in accordance with the ASTM F739 method and found to satisfy the requirements for use by EPA: Ansell Edmond/8-352/Neoprene rubber, 0.097 cm thick. Gloves may not be used for a time period longer than they are actually tested and must be replaced at the end of each work shift), (a)(2)(ii), (a)(2)(iii), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(l)(iii), (g)(l)(iv), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). The label and SDS as required by this paragraph shall also include the following statement: This substance is expected to enhance the absorption of other chemicals into skin or other materials.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (o), (q), and (k) (use other than as a heat transfer fluid).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 3435, Jan. 22, 1998]




