# § 721.1800   3,3′,5,5′-Tetramethylbiphenyl-4,4′-diol.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 3,3′,5,5′-tetramethylbiphenyl-4,4′-diol (PMN P-88-972) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(iv), (b) (concentration set at 1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (k) (monomer for epoxy resins and engineering plastics or an antioxidizing agent for lubricating oils) and (p) (level set at 42,000 kg and 366,000 kg).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (j). 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [55 FR 33308, Aug. 15, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




