# § 1301.51   Modification in registration.

(a) Any registrant may apply to modify his/her registration to authorize the handling of additional controlled substances or to change his/her name or address by submitting a written request to the Registration Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. Additionally, such a request may be submitted on-line at *www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov.*

(1) The request shall contain:


(i) The registrant's name, address, and registration number as printed on the certificate of registration;


(ii) The substances and/or schedules to be added to the registration or the new name or address; and


(iii) A signature in accordance with § 1301.13(j).


(2) If the registrant is seeking to handle additional controlled substances listed in Schedule I for the purpose of research or instructional activities, the registrant shall attach three copies of a research protocol describing each research project involving the additional substances, or two copies of a statement describing the nature, extent, and duration of such instructional activities, as appropriate.


(b) Any manufacturer, distributor, reverse distributor, narcotic treatment program, hospital/clinic with an on-site pharmacy, or retail pharmacy registered pursuant to this part, may apply to modify its registration to become authorized as a collector by submitting a written request to the Registration Unit, Drug Enforcement Administration. See the Table of DEA Mailing Addresses in § 1321.01 of this chapter for the current mailing address. Additionally, such request may be submitted on-line at *www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov.*

(1) The request shall contain:


(i) The registrant's name, address, and registration number as printed on the certificate of registration;


(ii) The method(s) of collection the registrant intends to conduct (collection receptacle and/or mail-back program); and


(iii) A signature in accordance with § 1301.13(j).


(2) If a hospital/clinic with an on-site pharmacy or retail pharmacy is applying for a modification in registration to authorize such registrant to be a collector to maintain a collection receptacle at a long-term care facility in accordance with § 1317.80 of this chapter, the request shall also include the name and physical location of each long-term care facility at which the hospital/clinic with an on-site pharmacy, or the retail pharmacy, intends to operate a collection receptacle.


(c) No fee shall be required for modification. The request for modification shall be handled in the same manner as an application for registration. If the modification of registration is approved, the Administrator shall issue a new certificate of registration (DEA Form 223) to the registrant, who shall maintain it with the old certificate of registration until expiration.



---

[N] [79 FR 53561, Sept. 9, 2014]




