# ยง 372.2   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires:


*Charter* means overseas military personnel charter. 


*Charter operator* means overseas military personnel charter operator. 


*Charter participant* means a member of the overseas military personnel charter group. 


*Charter price* means the total amount of money paid by the charter participant to the charter operator for air transportation. 


*Immediate family* means only the following persons: the spouse, children, parents, parents of the spouse, children of the parents, and children of the parents of the spouse of (1) military personnel on active duty with the United States Armed Forces (including Coast Guard) stationed outside the contiguous states of the United States and the District of Columbia, and (2) civilian employees of the Department of Defense who are citizens of the United States and are stationed in a foreign country, or in a U.S. territory or possession, where U.S. military personnel are stationed. 


*Overseas military personnel charter* means a charter, either one-way or round-trip, limited to military personnel on active duty with the U.S. Armed Forces (including the Coast Guard), stationed outside the 48 contiguous States of the United States and the District of Columbia, and/or civilian employees of the Department of Defense who are citizens of the United States and are stationed in a foreign country, or in a U.S. territory or possession, where such U.S. military personnel are stationed, and/or the immediate families of the foregoing persons, where the following conditions are met: (a) All military personnel and civilian employees of the Department of Defense participating in the charter are on official furlough, leave, pass, or other authorized absence from duty, and (b) the transportation is between a place in the 48 contiguous States of the United States or the District of Columbia and a place in Alaska, Hawaii, or a territory or possession of the United States, or a foreign country in which military personnel of the United States are stationed: *Provided, however,* That nothing contained herein shall preclude an overseas military personnel charter operator from utilizing any unused space on an aircraft chartered by it pursuant to this part for the transportation, on a free or reduced-rate basis, of such charter operator's employees, directors, and officers, and the parents and immediate families of such persons, subject to the provisions of part 223 of this chapter. 


*Overseas military personnel charter operator* means any citizen of the United States, as defined in section 40102(a)(15) of 49 U.S.C. Subtitle VII authorized hereunder to engage in the formation of overseas military personnel charter groups and who complies with the provisions of this part. 


*Person* means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation. 



---

[N] [SPR-54, 37 FR 11163, June 3, 1972, as amended by SPR-69, 38 FR 14164, May 30, 1973; SPR-109, 41 FR 35158, Aug. 20, 1976; 60 FR 43529, Aug. 22, 1995; Doc. No. DOT-OST-2014-0140, 84 FR 15938, Apr. 16, 2019]




