# ยง 9701.106   Relationship to other provisions.

(a)(1) The provisions of title 5, U.S. Code, are waived or modified to the extent authorized by 5 U.S.C. 9701 to conform to the provisions of this part.


(2) This part must be interpreted in a way that recognizes the critical mission of the Department. Each provision of this part must be construed to promote the swift, flexible, effective day-to-day accomplishment of this mission, as defined by the Secretary or designee. The interpretation of the regulations in this part by DHS and OPM must be accorded great deference.


(b) For the purpose of applying other provisions of law or Governmentwide regulations that reference provisions under chapters 43, 51, 53, 71, 75, and 77 of title 5, U.S. Code, the referenced provisions are not waived but are modified consistent with the corresponding regulations in this part, except as otherwise provided in this part (including paragraph (c) of this section) or in DHS implementing directives. Applications of this rule include, but are not limited to, the following:


(1) If another provision of law or Governmentwide regulations requires coverage under one of the chapters modified or waived under this part (*i.e.*, chapters 43, 51, 53, 71, 75, and 77 of title 5, U.S. Code), DHS employees are deemed to be covered by the applicable chapter notwithstanding coverage under a system established under this part. Selected examples of provisions that continue to apply to any DHS employees (notwithstanding coverage under subparts B through G of this part) include, but are not limited to, the following:


(i) Foreign language awards for law enforcement officers under 5 U.S.C. 4521-4523;


(ii) Pay for firefighters under 5 U.S.C. 5545b;


(iii) Differentials for duty involving physical hardship or hazard under 5 U.S.C. 5545(d);


(iv) Recruitment, relocation, and retention payments under 5 U.S.C. 5753-5754;


(v) Physicians' comparability allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5948; and


(vi) The higher cap on relocation bonuses for law enforcement officers established by section 407 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (section 529 of Pub. L. 101-509).


(2) In applying the back pay law in 5 U.S.C. 5596 to DHS employees covered by subpart G of this part (dealing with appeals), the reference in section 5596(b)(1)(A)(ii) to 5 U.S.C. 7701(g) (dealing with attorney fees) is considered to be a reference to a modified section 7701(g) that is consistent with ยง 9701.706(h).


(3) In applying the back pay law in 5 U.S.C. 5596 to DHS employees covered by subpart E of this part (dealing with labor relations), the reference in section 5596(b)(5) to section 7116 (dealing with unfair labor practices) is considered to be a reference to a modified section 7116 that is consistent with ยง 9701.517.


(c) When a specified category of employees is covered by a classification and pay system established under subparts B and C of this part, the following provisions do not apply:


(1) Time-in-grade restrictions that apply to competitive service GS positions under 5 CFR part 300, subpart F;


(2) Supervisory differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5755; and


(3) Law enforcement officer special rates and geographic adjustments under sections 403 and 404 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (section 529 of Pub. L. 101-509).


(d) Nothing in this part waives, modifies or otherwise affects the employment discrimination laws that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces under 42 U.S.C. 2000e *et seq.,* 29 U.S.C. 621 *et seq.,* 29 U.S.C. 791 *et seq.,* and 29 U.S.C. 206(d). Employees and applicants for employment in DHS will continue to be covered by EEOC's Federal sector regulations found at 29 CFR part 1614.




