# ยง 578.25   Site control.

(a) *In general.* When grant funds will be used for acquisition, rehabilitation, new construction, operating costs, or to provide supportive services, the recipient or subrecipient must demonstrate that it has site control within the time frame established in section ยง 578.21 before HUD will execute a grant agreement. This requirement does not apply to funds used for housing that will eventually be owned or controlled by the individuals or families served or for supportive services provided at sites not operated by the recipient or subrecipient.


(b) *Evidence.* Acceptable evidence of site control is a deed or lease. If grant funds will be used for acquisition, acceptable evidence of site control will be a purchase agreement. The owner, lessee, and purchaser shown on these documents must be the selected applicant or intended subrecipient identified in the application for assistance.


(c) *Tax credit projects.* (1) Applicants that plan to use the low-income housing tax credit authorized under 26 U.S.C. 42 to finance a project must prove to HUD's satisfaction that the applicant or subrecipient identified in the application is in control of the limited partnership or limited liability corporation that has a deed or lease for the project site.


(i) To have control of the limited partnership, the applicant or subrecipient must be the general partner of the limited partnership or have a 51 percent controlling interest in that general partner.


(ii) To have control of the limited liability company, the applicant or subrecipient must be the sole managing member.


(2) If grant funds are to be used for acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction, the recipient or subrecipient must maintain control of the partnership or corporation and must ensure that the project is operated in compliance with law and regulation for 15 years from the date of initial occupancy or initial service provision. The partnership or corporation must own the project site throughout the 15-year period. If grant funds were not used for acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction, then the recipient or subrecipient must maintain control for the term of the grant agreement and any renewals thereof.




