# § 1.168(i)-8   Dispositions of MACRS property.

(a) *Scope.* This section provides rules applicable to dispositions of MACRS property (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(2)) or to depreciable property (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(1)) that would be MACRS property but for an election made by the taxpayer either to expense all or some of the property's cost under section 179, section 179A, section 179B, section 179C, section 179D, or section 1400I(a)(1), or any similar provision, or to amortize all or some of the property's cost under section 1400I(a)(2) or any similar provision. This section also applies to dispositions described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section of a portion of such property. Except as provided in § 1.168(i)-1(e)(3), this section does not apply to dispositions of assets included in a general asset account. For rules applicable to dispositions of assets included in a general asset account, see § 1.168(i)-1(e).


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


(1) *Building* has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 1.48-1(e)(1).


(2) *Disposition* occurs when ownership of the asset is transferred or when the asset is permanently withdrawn from use either in the taxpayer's trade or business or in the production of income. A disposition includes the sale, exchange, retirement, physical abandonment, or destruction of an asset. A disposition also occurs when an asset is transferred to a supplies, scrap, or similar account, or when a portion of an asset is disposed of as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If a structural component, or a portion thereof, of a building is disposed of in a disposition described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a disposition also includes the disposition of such structural component or such portion thereof.


(3) *Mass assets* is a mass or group of individual items of depreciable assets—


(i) That are not necessarily homogenous;


(ii) Each of which is minor in value relative to the total value of the mass or group;


(iii) Numerous in quantity;


(iv) Usually accounted for only on a total dollar or quantity basis;


(v) With respect to which separate identification is impracticable; and


(vi) Placed in service in the same taxable year.


(4) *Portion of an asset* is any part of an asset that is less than the entire asset as determined under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(5) *Structural component* has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 1.48-1(e)(2).


(6) *Unadjusted depreciable basis of the multiple asset account or pool* is the sum of the unadjusted depreciable bases (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of all assets included in the multiple asset account or pool.


(c) *Special rules*—(1) *Manner of disposition.* The manner of disposition (for example, normal retirement, abnormal retirement, ordinary retirement, or extraordinary retirement) is not taken into account in determining whether a disposition occurs or gain or loss is recognized.


(2) *Disposition by transfer to a supplies account.* If a taxpayer made an election under § 1.162-3(d) to treat the cost of any rotable spare part, temporary spare part, or standby emergency spare part (as defined in § 1.162-3(c)) as a capital expenditure subject to the allowance for depreciation, the taxpayer can dispose of the rotable, temporary, or standby emergency spare part by transferring it to a supplies account only if the taxpayer has obtained the consent of the Commissioner to revoke the § 1.162-3(d) election. If a taxpayer made an election under § 1.162-3T(d) to treat the cost of any material and supply (as defined in § 1.162-3T(c)(1)) as a capital expenditure subject to the allowance for depreciation, the taxpayer can dispose of the material and supply by transferring it to a supplies account only if the taxpayer has obtained the consent of the Commissioner to revoke the § 1.162-3T(d) election. See § 1.162-3(d)(3) for the procedures for revoking a § 1.162-3(d) or a § 1.162-3T(d) election.


(3) *Leasehold improvements.* This section also applies to—


(i) A lessor of leased property that made an improvement to that property for the lessee of the property, has a depreciable basis in the improvement, and disposes of the improvement, or disposes of a portion of the improvement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, before or upon the termination of the lease with the lessee. See section 168(i)(8)(B); and


(ii) A lessee of leased property that made an improvement to that property, has a depreciable basis in the improvement, and disposes of the improvement, or disposes of a portion of the improvement under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, before or upon the termination of the lease.


(4) *Determination of asset disposed of*—(i) *General rules.* For purposes of applying this section, the facts and circumstances of each disposition are considered in determining what is the appropriate asset disposed of. The asset for disposition purposes may not consist of items placed in service by the taxpayer on different dates, without taking into account the applicable convention. For purposes of determining what is the appropriate asset disposed of, the unit of property determination under § 1.263(a)-3(e) or in published guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) under section 263(a) and the distinct asset determination under § 1.1031(a)-3(a)(4) do not apply.


(ii) *Special rules.* In addition to the general rules in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, the following rules apply for purposes of applying this section:


(A) Each building, including its structural components, is the asset, except as provided in § 1.1250-1(a)(2)(ii) or in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) or (D) of this section.


(B) If a building has two or more condominium or cooperative units, each condominium or cooperative unit, including its structural components, is the asset, except as provided in § 1.1250-1(a)(2)(ii) or in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section.


(C) If a taxpayer properly includes an item in one of the asset classes 00.11 through 00.4 of Rev. Proc. 87-56 (1987-2 CB 674) (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) or properly classifies an item in one of the categories under section 168(e)(3), except for a category that includes buildings or structural components (for example, retail motor fuels outlet, qualified leasehold improvement property, qualified restaurant property, and qualified retail improvement property), each item is the asset provided paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section does not apply to the item. For example, each desk is the asset, each computer is the asset, and each qualified smart electric meter is the asset.


(D) If the taxpayer places in service an improvement or addition to an asset after the taxpayer placed the asset in service, the improvement or addition and, if applicable, its structural components are a separate asset.


(d) *Disposition of a portion of an asset*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of applying this section, a disposition includes a disposition of a portion of an asset as a result of a casualty event described in section 165, a disposition of a portion of an asset for which gain, determined without regard to section 1245 or section 1250, is not recognized in whole or in part under section 1031 or section 1033, a transfer of a portion of an asset in a transaction described in section 168(i)(7)(B), or a sale of a portion of an asset, even if the taxpayer does not make the election under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for that disposed portion. For other transactions, a disposition includes a disposition of a portion of an asset only if the taxpayer makes the election under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for that disposed portion.


(2) *Partial disposition election*—(i) *In general.* A taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (d)(2) to apply this section to a disposition of a portion of an asset. If the asset is properly included in one of the asset classes 00.11 through 00.4 of Rev. Proc. 87-56, a taxpayer may make an election under this paragraph (d)(2) to apply this section to a disposition of a portion of such asset only if the taxpayer classifies the replacement portion of the asset under the same asset class as the disposed portion of the asset.


(ii) *Time and manner for making election*—(A) *Time for making election.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section, a taxpayer must make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section by the due date, including extensions, of the original Federal tax return for the taxable year in which the portion of an asset is disposed of by the taxpayer.


(B) *Manner of making election.* Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section, a taxpayer must make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section by applying the provisions of this section for the taxable year in which the portion of an asset is disposed of by the taxpayer, by reporting the gain, loss, or other deduction on the taxpayer's timely filed, including extensions, original Federal tax return for that taxable year, and, if the asset is properly included in one of the asset classes 00.11 through 00.4 of Rev. Proc. 87-56, by classifying the replacement portion of such asset under the same asset class as the disposed portion of the asset in the taxable year in which the replacement portion is placed in service by the taxpayer. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) or (iv)(B) of this section or except as otherwise expressly provided by other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter), the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section may not be made through the filing of an application for change in accounting method.


(iii) *Special rule for subsequent Internal Revenue Service adjustment.* This paragraph (d)(2)(iii) applies when a taxpayer deducted the amount paid or incurred for the replacement of a portion of an asset as a repair under § 1.162-4, the taxpayer did not make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for the disposed portion of that asset within the time and in the manner under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) or (iv) of this section, and as a result of an examination of the taxpayer's Federal tax return, the Internal Revenue Service disallows the taxpayer's repair deduction for the amount paid or incurred for the replacement of the portion of that asset and instead capitalizes such amount under § 1.263(a)-2 or § 1.263(a)-3. If this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) applies, the taxpayer may make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for the disposition of the portion of the asset to which the Internal Revenue Service's adjustment pertains by filing an application for change in accounting method, provided the asset of which the disposed portion was a part is owned by the taxpayer at the beginning of the year of change (as defined for purposes of section 446(e)).


(iv) *Special rules for 2012 or 2013 returns.* If, under paragraph (j)(2) of this section, a taxpayer chooses to apply the provisions of this section to a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and ending on or before September 19, 2013 (applicable taxable year), and the taxpayer did not make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section on its timely filed original Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, including extensions, the taxpayer must make the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section for the applicable taxable year by filing either—


(A) An amended Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year on or before 180 days from the due date including extensions of the taxpayer's Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, notwithstanding that the taxpayer may not have extended the due date; or


(B) An application for change in accounting method with the taxpayer's timely filed original Federal tax return for the first or second taxable year succeeding the applicable taxable year.


(v) *Revocation.* A taxpayer may revoke the election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section only by filing a request for a private letter ruling and obtaining the Commissioner's consent to revoke the election. The Commissioner may grant a request to revoke this election if the taxpayer acted reasonably and in good faith, and the revocation will not prejudice the interests of the Government. See generally § 301.9100-3 of this chapter. The election specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section may not be revoked through the filing of an application for change in accounting method.


(e) *Gain or loss on dispositions.* Solely for purposes of this paragraph (e), the term *asset* is an asset within the scope of this section or the portion of such asset that is disposed of in a disposition described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Except as provided by section 280B and § 1.280B-1, the following rules apply when an asset is disposed of during a taxable year:


(1) If an asset is disposed of by sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion, gain or loss must be recognized under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.


(2) If an asset is disposed of by physical abandonment, loss must be recognized in the amount of the adjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(4)) of the asset at the time of the abandonment, taking into account the applicable convention. However, if the abandoned asset is subject to nonrecourse indebtedness, paragraph (e)(1) of this section applies to the asset instead of this paragraph (e)(2). For a loss from physical abandonment to qualify for recognition under this paragraph (e)(2), the taxpayer must intend to discard the asset irrevocably so that the taxpayer will neither use the asset again nor retrieve it for sale, exchange, or other disposition.


(3) If an asset is disposed of other than by sale, exchange, involuntary conversion, physical abandonment, or conversion to personal use (as, for example, when the asset is transferred to a supplies or scrap account), gain is not recognized. Loss must be recognized in the amount of the excess of the adjusted depreciable basis of the asset at the time of the disposition, taking into account the applicable convention, over the asset's fair market value at the time of the disposition, taking into account the applicable convention.


(f) *Basis of asset disposed of*—(1) *In general.* The adjusted basis of an asset disposed of for computing gain or loss is its adjusted depreciable basis at the time of the asset's disposition, as determined under the applicable convention for the asset.


(2) *Assets disposed of are in multiple asset accounts.* (i) If the taxpayer accounts for the asset disposed of in a multiple asset account or pool and it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the unadjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of the asset disposed of, the taxpayer may use any reasonable method that is consistently applied to all assets in the same multiple asset account or pool for purposes of determining the unadjusted depreciable basis of assets disposed of. Examples of a reasonable method include, but are not limited to, the following:


(A) If the replacement asset is a restoration (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(k)), and is not a betterment (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(j)) or an adaptation to a new or different use (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(l)), discounting the cost of the replacement asset to its placed-in-service year cost using the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods or its successor, the Producer Price Index for Final Demand, or any other index designated by guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) for purposes of this paragraph (f)(2);


(B) A pro rata allocation of the unadjusted depreciable basis of the multiple asset account or pool based on the replacement cost of the disposed asset and the replacement cost of all of the assets in the multiple asset account or pool; and


(C) A study allocating the cost of the asset to its individual components.


(ii) To determine the adjusted depreciable basis of an asset disposed of in a multiple asset account or pool, the depreciation allowable for the asset disposed of is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the multiple asset account or pool in which the asset disposed of was included and by including the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset disposed of.


(3) *Disposition of a portion of an asset.* (i) This paragraph (f)(3) applies only when a taxpayer disposes of a portion of an asset and paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies to that disposition. For computing gain or loss, the adjusted basis of the disposed portion of the asset is the adjusted depreciable basis of that disposed portion at the time of its disposition, as determined under the applicable convention for the asset. If it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the unadjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of the disposed portion of the asset, the taxpayer may use any reasonable method for purposes of determining the unadjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of the disposed portion of the asset. If a taxpayer disposes of more than one portion of the same asset and it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the unadjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of the first disposed portion of the asset, the reasonable method used by the taxpayer must be consistently applied to all portions of the same asset for purposes of determining the unadjusted depreciable basis of each disposed portion of the asset. If the asset, a portion of which is disposed of, is in a multiple asset account or pool and it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the unadjusted depreciable basis (as defined in § 1.168(b)-1(a)(3)) of the disposed portion of the asset, the reasonable method used by the taxpayer must be consistently applied to all assets in the same multiple asset account or pool for purposes of determining the unadjusted depreciable basis of assets disposed of or any disposed portion of the assets. Examples of a reasonable method include, but are not limited to, the following:


(A) If the replacement portion is a restoration (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(k)), and is not a betterment (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(j)) or an adaptation to a new or different use (as defined in § 1.263(a)-3(l)), discounting the cost of the replacement portion of the asset to its placed-in-service year cost using the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods or its successor, the Producer Price Index for Final Demand, or any other index designated by guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) for purposes of this paragraph (f)(3);


(B) A pro rata allocation of the unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset based on the replacement cost of the disposed portion of the asset and the replacement cost of the asset; and


(C) A study allocating the cost of the asset to its individual components.


(ii) To determine the adjusted depreciable basis of the disposed portion of the asset, the depreciation allowable for the disposed portion is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the asset in which the disposed portion was included and by including the portion of the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset that is attributable to the disposed portion.


(g) *Identification of asset disposed of*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) or (3) of this section, a taxpayer must use the specific identification method of accounting to identify which asset is disposed of by the taxpayer. Under this method of accounting, the taxpayer can determine the particular taxable year in which the asset disposed of was placed in service by the taxpayer.


(2) *Asset disposed of is in a multiple asset account.* If a taxpayer accounts for the asset disposed of in a multiple asset account or pool and the total dispositions of assets with the same recovery period during the taxable year are readily determined from the taxpayer's records, but it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the particular taxable year in which the asset disposed of was placed in service by the taxpayer, the taxpayer must identify the asset disposed of by using—


(i) A first-in, first-out method of accounting if the unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset disposed of cannot be readily determined from the taxpayer's records. Under this method of accounting, the taxpayer identifies the multiple asset account or pool with the earliest placed-in-service year that has the same recovery period as the asset disposed of and that has assets at the beginning of the taxable year of the disposition, and the taxpayer treats the asset disposed of as being from that multiple asset account or pool;


(ii) A modified first-in, first-out method of accounting if the unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset disposed of can be readily determined from the taxpayer's records. Under this method of accounting, the taxpayer identifies the multiple asset account or pool with the earliest placed-in-service year that has the same recovery period as the asset disposed of and that has assets at the beginning of the taxable year of the disposition with the same unadjusted depreciable basis as the asset disposed of, and the taxpayer treats the asset disposed of as being from that multiple asset account or pool;


(iii) A mortality dispersion table if the asset disposed of is a mass asset. The mortality dispersion table must be based upon an acceptable sampling of the taxpayer's actual disposition experience for mass assets or other acceptable statistical or engineering techniques. To use a mortality dispersion table, the taxpayer must adopt recordkeeping practices consistent with the taxpayer's prior practices and consonant with good accounting and engineering practices; or


(iv) Any other method as the Secretary may designate by publication in the _Federal Register_ or in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) on or after September 19, 2013. See paragraph (g)(4) of this section regarding the last-in, first-out method of accounting.


(3) *Disposition of a portion of an asset.* If a taxpayer disposes of a portion of an asset and paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies to that disposition, but it is impracticable from the taxpayer's records to determine the particular taxable year in which the asset was placed in service, the taxpayer must identify the asset by using any applicable method provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, after taking into account paragraph (g)(4) of this section.


(4) *Last-in, first-out method of accounting.* For purposes of this paragraph (g), a last-in, first-out method of accounting may not be used. Examples of a last-in, first-out method of accounting include the taxpayer identifying the multiple asset account or pool with the most recent placed-in-service year that has the same recovery period as the asset disposed of and that has assets at the beginning of the taxable year of the disposition, and the taxpayer treating the asset disposed of as being from that multiple asset account or pool, or the taxpayer treating the disposed portion of an asset as being from an asset with the most recent placed-in-service year that is the same as the asset of which the disposed portion is a part.


(h) *Accounting for asset disposed of*—(1) *Depreciation ends.* Depreciation ends for an asset at the time of the asset's disposition, as determined under the applicable convention for the asset. See § 1.167(a)-10(b). If the asset disposed of is in a single asset account initially or as a result of § 1.168(i)-8(h)(2)(i), § 1.168(i)-8(h)(3)(i), or general asset account treatment for the asset terminated under § 1.168(i)-1(c)(1)(ii)(A), (e)(3)(iii), (e)(3)(v), (e)(3)(vii), (g), or (h)(1), as applicable, the single asset account terminates at the time of the asset's disposition, as determined under the applicable convention for the asset. If a taxpayer disposes of a portion of an asset and paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies to that disposition, depreciation ends for that disposed portion of the asset at the time of the disposition of the disposed portion, as determined under the applicable convention for the asset.


(2) *Asset disposed of in a multiple asset account or pool.* If the taxpayer accounts for the asset disposed of in a multiple asset account or pool, then—


(i) As of the first day of the taxable year in which the disposition occurs, the asset disposed of is removed from the multiple asset account or pool and is placed into a single asset account. See § 1.168(i)-7(b);


(ii) The unadjusted depreciable basis of the multiple asset account or pool must be reduced by the unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset disposed of as of the first day of the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. See paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for determining the unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset disposed of;


(iii) The depreciation reserve of the multiple asset account or pool must be reduced by the greater of the depreciation allowed or allowable for the asset disposed of as of the end of the taxable year immediately preceding the year of disposition. The allowable depreciation is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the multiple asset account or pool in which the asset disposed of was included and by including the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset disposed of; and

(iv) In determining the adjusted depreciable basis of the asset disposed of at the time of disposition, taking into account the applicable convention, the depreciation allowable for the asset disposed of is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the multiple asset account or pool in which the asset disposed of was included and by including the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset disposed of.


(3) *Disposition of a portion of an asset.* This paragraph (h)(3) applies only when a taxpayer disposes of a portion of an asset and paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies to that disposition. In this case—


(i) As of the first day of the taxable year in which the disposition occurs, the disposed portion is placed into a single asset account. See § 1.168(i)-7(b);


(ii) The unadjusted depreciable basis of the asset must be reduced by the unadjusted depreciable basis of the disposed portion as of the first day of the taxable year in which the disposition occurs. See paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section for determining the unadjusted depreciable basis of the disposed portion;


(iii) The depreciation reserve of the asset must be reduced by the greater of the depreciation allowed or allowable for the disposed portion as of the end of the taxable year immediately preceding the year of disposition. The allowable depreciation is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the asset in which the disposed portion was included and by including the portion of the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset that is attributable to the disposed portion; and

(iv) In determining the adjusted depreciable basis of the disposed portion at the time of disposition, taking into account the applicable convention, the depreciation allowable for the disposed portion is computed by using the depreciation method, recovery period, and convention applicable to the asset in which the disposed portion was included and by including the portion of the additional first year depreciation deduction claimed for the asset that is attributable to the disposed portion.


(i) *Examples.* The application of this section is illustrated by the following examples:


(j) *Effective/applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (j)(5) of this section, this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014.


(2) *Early application of this section.* A taxpayer may choose to apply the provisions of this section to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.


(3) *Early application of regulation project REG-110732-13.* A taxpayer may rely on the provisions of this section in regulation project REG-110732-13 (2013-43 IRB 404) (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012. However, a taxpayer may not rely on the provisions of this section in regulation project REG-110732-13 for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014.


(4) *Optional application of TD 9564.* A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.168(i)-8T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2014, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012. However, a taxpayer may not apply § 1.168(i)-8T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2014, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014.


(5) *Application of paragraph (c)(4)(i).* The language “and the distinct asset determination under § 1.1031(a)-3(a)(4) do not apply.” in the last sentence of paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section applies on or after December 2, 2020. Paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2020, applies before December 2, 2020.


(6) *Change in method of accounting.* A change to comply with this section for depreciable assets placed in service in a taxable year ending on or after December 30, 2003, is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of section 446(e) and the regulations under section 446(e) apply. A taxpayer also may treat a change to comply with this section for depreciable assets placed in service in a taxable year ending before December 30, 2003, as a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of section 446(e) and the regulations under section 446(e) apply. This paragraph (j)(5) does not apply to a change to comply with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) or (iv)(B) of this section or otherwise provided by other guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).



---

[N] [T.D. 9689, 79 FR 48678, Aug. 18, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 78697, Dec. 31, 2014; T.D. 9935, 85 FR 77378, Dec. 2, 2020]




