# § 414.230   Determining a period of continuous use.

(a) *Scope.* This section sets forth the rules that apply in determining a period of continuous use for rental of durable medical equipment.


(b) *Continuous use.* (1) A period of continuous use begins with the first month of medical need and lasts until a beneficiary's medical need for a particular item of durable medical equipment ends.


(2) In the case of a beneficiary receiving oxygen equipment on December 31, 2005, the period of continuous use for the equipment begins on January 1, 2006. 


(c) *Temporary interruption.* (1) A period of continuous use allows for temporary interruptions in the use of equipment.


(2) An interruption of not longer than 60 consecutive days plus the days remaining in the rental month in which use ceases is temporary, regardless of the reason for the interruption.


(3) Unless there is a break in medical necessity that lasts longer than 60 consecutive days plus the days remaining in the rental month in which use ceases, medical necessity is presumed to continue. 


(d) *Criteria for a new rental period.* If an interruption in the use of equipment continues for more than 60 consecutive days plus the days remaining in the rental month in which use ceases, a new rental period begins if the supplier submits all of the following information—


(1) A new prescription.


(2) New medical necessity documentation.


(3) A statement describing the reason for the interruption and demonstrating that medical necessity in the prior episode ended.


(e) *Beneficiary moves.* A permanent or temporary move made by a beneficiary does not constitute an interruption in the period of continuous use.


(f) *New equipment.* (1) If a beneficiary changes equipment or requires additional equipment based on a physician's prescription, and the new or additional equipment is found to be necessary, a new period of continuous use begins for the new or additional equipment. A new period of continuous use does not begin for base equipment that is modified by an addition.


(2) A new period of continuous use does not begin when a beneficiary changes from one stationary oxygen equipment modality to another or from one portable oxygen equipment modality to another. 


(g) *New supplier.* If a beneficiary changes suppliers, a new period of continuous use does not begin.


(h) *Oxygen equipment furnished after the 36-month rental period.* A new period of continuous use does not begin under any circumstance in the case of oxygen equipment furnished after the 36-month rental period in accordance with § 414.226(h) until the end of the reasonable useful lifetime established for such equipment in accordance with § 414.210(h).



---

[N] [56 FR 50823, Oct. 9, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57111, Dec. 3, 1992; 71 FR 65935, Nov. 9, 2006; 73 FR 69937, Nov. 19, 2008; 83 FR 57072, Nov. 14, 2018]




