# § 111.15-5   Battery installation.

(a) *Large batteries.* Each large battery installation must be in a room that is only for batteries or a box on deck. Installed electrical equipment must meet the hazardous location requirements in subpart 111.105 of this part.


(b) *Moderate batteries.* Each moderate battery installation must be in a battery room, in a box on deck, or in a box or locker in another space such as an engineroom, storeroom, or similar space, except if a moderate battery installation is in a ventilated compartment such as the engineroom and is protected from falling objects, a box or locker is not required. A moderate battery installation must not be in a sleeping space. An engine cranking battery for one or more engines must be as close as possible to the engine or engines. 


(c) *Small batteries.* Small size battery installations must not be located in poorly-ventilated spaces, such as closets, or in living spaces, such as staterooms.


(d) *Battery trays.* Each battery tray must be chocked with wood strips or their equivalent to prevent movement, and each tray must have non-absorbent insulating supports on the bottom and similar spacer blocks at the sides, or equivalent provisions for air circulation space all around each tray. Each battery tray must provide adequate accessibility for installation, maintenance, and removal of the batteries.


(e) *Nameplates.* Each battery must be provided with the name of its manufacturer, model number, type designation, either the cold cranking amp rating or the amp-hour rating at a specific discharge and, for a lead-acid battery, the fully charged specific gravity value. This information must be permanently fixed to the battery.


(f) *Lining in battery rooms and lockers.* (1) Each battery room and locker must have a watertight lining that is—


(i) On each shelf to a height of at least 76 mm (3 inches); or


(ii) On the deck to a height of at least 152 mm (6 inches).


(2) For lead-acid batteries, the lining must be 1.6 mm (
1/16 inch) thick lead or other material that is corrosion-resistant to the electrolyte of the battery.


(3) For alkaline batteries, the lining must be 0.8 mm (
1/32 inch) thick steel or other material that is corrosion-resistant to the electrolyte of the battery.


(g) *Lining of battery boxes.* Each battery box must have a watertight lining to a height of at least 76 mm (3 inches) that meets paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section.



---

[N] [CGD 74-125A, 47 FR 15236, Apr. 8, 1982, as amended by CGD 94-108, 61 FR 28278, June 4, 1996; 61 FR 36787, July 12, 1996; 62 FR 23908, May 1, 1997]




