# § 151.05-1   Explanation of column headings in Table 151.05.

(a) *Cargo identification/name.* This column identifies cargoes by name. Words in italics are not part of the cargo name but may be used in addition to the cargo name. When one entry references another entry by use of the word “see” and both names are in roman type, either name may be used as the cargo name (e.g., “Diethyl either *see* Ethyl ether”). However, the referenced entry is preferred.


(b) *Cargo identification/pressure.* This column identifies cargo in terms of pressure within the tank. Terms used are: 


(1) *Pressurized.* Cargo carried at a pressure in excess of 10 pounds per square inch gauge as measured at the top of the tank (i.e., exclusive of static head). 


(2) *Atmospheric pressure.* Cargo carried at not more than 10 pounds per square inch gauge, exclusive of static head. 


(c) *Cargo identification/temperature.* This column identifies the cargo by the temperature of the cargo during transit. 


(1) *Ambient temperature.* Cargo which is carried at naturally occurring temperatures. 


(2) *Low temperature.* Cargo carried below ambient temperatures when the product temperature is below 0 °F. 


(3) *Elevated temperature.* Cargo carried above ambient temperatures. 


(d) *Hull type.* This column refers to the flotation features of the barge. Terms used are explained and defined in Subpart 151.10 of this part. 


(e) *Cargo segregation/tanks.* This column refers to the separation of the cargo from its surroundings. Terms are explained in § 151.13-5 and in footnotes to Table 151.05 of this part. 


(f) *Tanks/type.* This column refers to the design requirements for cargo tanks and their placement within the hull of the vessel. Terms are explained in § 151.15-1. 


(g) *Tanks/venting.* This column refers to arrangements for preventing excess pressure or vacuum within the cargo tank. Terms used are explained and defined in § 151.15-5. 


(h) *Tanks/gauging devices.* This column refers to arrangements provided for determining the amount of cargo present in cargo tanks. Terms used are explained and defined in § 151.15-10. 


(i) *Cargo transfer/piping.* This column refers to the classification of piping in accordance with Subchapter F of this chapter as discussed in § 151.20-1. 


(j) *Cargo transfer/control.* This column refers to the valving requirements for the cargo piping system. These requirements are defined in § 151.20-5. 


(k) *Environmental control/cargo tanks.* This column refers to control of the composition of the environment within cargo tanks. Definitions and detailed requirements are given in § 151.25-1. 


(l) *Environmental control/cargo handling space.* This column refers to control of the environment in the cargo handling spaces. Definitions and detailed requirements are found in § 151.25-2. 


(m) *Fire protection.* This column specifies whether portable fire extinguishers are required on barges carrying the cargo named. Requirements for cargoes requiring extinguishers are given in Subpart 151.30 of this part. 


(n) *Special requirements.* This column refers to requirements in subparts 151.40, 151.50, 151.55, 151.56, and 151.58 of this part which apply to specific cargoes. The section numbers listed omit the preceding part designation, “151”.


(o) *Electrical hazard class—group.* This column lists the electrical hazard class and group used for the cargo when determining requirements for electrical equipment under subchapter J (Electrical engineering) of this chapter.


(p) *Temperature control installations.* This column refers to systems which are used to control the temperature of the cargo. Definitions and requirements which are applicable if such systems are used are given in Subpart 151.40 of this part. 


(q) *Tank inspection period.* This column refers to the maximum period in years between internal cargo tank inspections. Applicable requirements are given in § 151.04-5. 



---

[N] [CGFR 70-10, 35 FR 3714, Feb. 25, 1970; 35 FR 6431, Apr. 22, 1970, as amended by CGD 74-275, 40 FR 21958, May 20, 1975; CGD 88-100, 54 FR 40029, Sept. 29, 19895; CGD 96-041, 61 FR 50731, Sept. 27, 1996; USCG-2000-7079, 65 FR 67183, Nov. 8, 2000]




