# § 13.121   Courses for tank vessel endorsements.

(a) This section prescribes the requirements, beyond those in §§ 10.302 and 10.304 of this subchapter, applicable to schools offering courses required for a tank vessel endorsement and courses that are a substitute for experience with transfers of liquid cargo in bulk required for the endorsement.


(b) A course that uses simulated transfers to train students in loading and discharging tank vessels may replace up to two loadings and two discharges, one commencement and one completion of loading, and one commencement and one completion of discharge required for a Tank Vessel-PIC or Tank Barge-PIC endorsement. The request for approval of the course must specify those segments of a transfer that the course will simulate. The letter from the Coast Guard approving the course will state the number and kind of segments that the course will replace.


(c) The Liquid Cargo course required for an endorsement as—


(1) Tank Vessel-PIC DL is Tankship: Dangerous Liquids;


(2) Tank Barge-PIC DL is Tank Barge: Dangerous Liquids;


(3) Tank Vessel-PIC LG is Tankship: Liquefied Gases;


(4) Tank barge-PIC LG is Tank Barge: Liquefied Gases;


(5) Tank Vessel-Assistant DL is Tankship: Familiarization (Dangerous Liquids);


(6) Tank Vessel-Assistant LG is Tankship: Familiarization (Liquefied Gases);


(7) Tank Vessel-Engineer DL is Tankship: Dangerous Liquids; and


(8) Tank Vessel-Engineer LG is Tankship: Liquefied Gases.


(d) The firefighting course required for an endorsement as—


(1) Tank Barge-PIC is Tank Barge: Firefighting or Basic Firefighting; and


(2) Tank Vessel-PIC, Tank Vessel-Assistant, and Tank Vessel-Engineer is basic firefighting.


(e) The Coast Guard will evaluate and approve the curricula of courses to ensure adequate coverage of the required subjects. Training may employ classroom instruction, demonstrations, or simulated or actual operations.


(1) The course curricula for Tankship Familiarization must consist of the topics identified in table 1 to § 13.121(e).


(2) The course curricula for Tank Vessel-PIC, Tank Barge-PIC, and Tank Vessel-Engineer endorsements must consist of the topics identified in table 2 to § 13.121(e).


(3) The course curricula for firefighting courses must consist of the topics identified in table 3 to § 13.121(e).



---

[N] [USCG-2004-17914, 78 FR 77989, Dec. 24, 2013, as amended by USCG-2014-0688, 79 FR 58279, Sept. 29, 2014]





