# § 92.207   Eligible administrative and planning costs.

A participating jurisdiction may expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HOME program and ADDI, an amount of HOME funds that is not more than ten percent of the sum of the Fiscal Year HOME basic formula allocation plus any funds received in accordance with § 92.102(b) to meet or exceed participation threshold requirements that Fiscal Year. A state that transfers any HOME funds in accordance with § 92.102(b) must exclude these funds in calculating the amount it may expend for administrative and planning costs. A participating jurisdiction may also expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HOME program and the ADDI described in subpart M of this part, a sum up to ten percent of the program income deposited into its local account or received and reported by its state recipients or subrecipients during the program year. A participating jurisdiction may expend such funds directly or may authorize its state recipients or subrecipients, if any, to expend all or a portion of such funds, provided total expenditures for planning and administrative costs do not exceed the maximum allowable amount. Reasonable administrative and planning costs include:


(a) *General management, oversight and coordination.* Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following: 


(1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the participating jurisdiction's staff. In charging costs to this category the participating jurisdiction may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose *primary* responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes *any* program administration assignments. The participating jurisdiction may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments: 


(i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements; 


(ii) Developing interagency agreements and agreements with entities receiving HOME funds; 


(iii) Monitoring HOME-assisted housing for progress and compliance with program requirements; 


(iv) Developing agreements and monitoring housing not assisted with HOME funds that the participating jurisdiction designates as a matching contribution in accordance with § 92.219(b) for compliance with applicable program requirements; 


(v) Preparing reports and other documents related to the program for submission to HUD; 


(vi) Coordinating the resolution of audit and monitoring findings; 


(vii) Evaluating program results against stated objectives; and 


(viii) Managing or supervising persons whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program include such assignments as those described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section; 


(2) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out the program; 


(3) Administrative services performed under third party contracts or agreements, including such services as general legal services, accounting services, and audit services; 


(4) Other costs for goods and services required for administration of the program, including such goods and services as rental or purchase of equipment, insurance, utilities, office supplies, and rental and maintenance (but not purchase) of office space; and 


(5) Costs of administering tenant-based rental assistance programs. 


(b) *Staff and overhead.* Staff and overhead costs of the participating jurisdiction directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing, inspections, lead-based paint evaluations (visual assessments, inspections, and risk assessments) and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers (e.g., housing counseling); and staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. These costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs under § 92.206(d)(6) and (f)(2), at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction; however, these costs (except housing counseling) cannot be charged to or paid by the low-income families.


(c) *Public information.* The provision of information and other resources to residents and citizen organizations participating in the planning, implementation, or assessment of projects being assisted with HOME funds. 


(d) *Fair housing.* Activities to affirmatively further fair housing in accordance with the participating jurisdiction's certification under 24 CFR part 91. 


(e) *Indirect Costs.* Indirect costs may be charged to the HOME program under a cost allocation plan prepared in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E. 


(f) *Preparation of the consolidated plan.* Preparation of the consolidated plan required under 24 CFR part 91. Preparation includes the costs of public hearings, consultations, and publication. 


(g) *Other Federal requirements.* Costs of complying with the Federal requirements in subpart H of this part. Project-specific environmental review costs may be charged as administrative costs or as project costs in accordance with § 92.206(d)(8), at the discretion of the participating jurisdiction. 


(h) *Preserving affordable housing already assisted with HOME funds.* Costs specified under § 92.254(a)(9) may be charged as an administrative cost or may be charged to the project as provided in § 92.254(a)(9). In addition, the foreclosure cost of a HOME-assisted rental housing project with a HOME loan in default is an eligible administrative cost.



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 69 FR 16766, Mar. 30, 2004; 72 FR 16685, Apr. 4, 2007; 78 FR 44668, July 24, 2013; 80 FR 75935, Dec. 7, 2015]




