# 6104.402   Filing claims [Rule 402].

(a) *Filing claims.* A claim may be sent to the Board in either of the following ways:


(1) *Claim filed by claimant.* A claim shall be in writing and must be signed by the claimant or by the claimant's attorney or authorized representative. No particular form is required. The request should describe the basis for the claim and state the amount sought. The request should also include—


(i) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile machine number, and e-mail address, if available, of the claimant;


(ii) The name, address, telephone number, facsimile machine number, and e-mail address, if available, of the agency employee who denied the claim;


(iii) A copy of the denial of the claim; and


(iv) Any other information which the claimant believes the Board should consider.


(2) *Claim forwarded by agency on behalf of claimant.* If an agency has denied a claim for travel or relocation expenses, it may, at the claimant's request, forward the claim to the Board. The agency shall include the information required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section and by 6104.403 (Rule 403).


(3) *Where claims are filed.* Claims should be filed with the Office of the Clerk of the Board. The Board will accept hand-delivered and mailed filings during business hours at 1800 M Street NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036.  The Clerk's telephone number is: (202) 606-8800. The Clerk's facsimile machine number is: (202) 606-0019. The Clerk's e-mail address for receipt of filings is: *cbca.efile@cbca.gov.* The Board's working hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on each day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.


(b) *Notice of docketing.* A request for review will be docketed by the Office of the Clerk of the Board. A written notice of docketing will be sent promptly to the claimant and the agency contact. The notice of docketing will identify the judge to whom the claim has been assigned.


(c) *Service of copy.* The claimant shall send to the agency employee identified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, or the individual otherwise identified by the agency to handle the claim, copies of all material provided to the Board. If an agency forwards a claim to the Board, it shall, at the same time, send to the claimant a copy of all material sent to the Board. All submissions to the Board shall indicate that a copy has been provided to the claimant or the agency.



---

[N] [72 FR 36817, July 5, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 50928, Aug. 17, 2011; 85 FR 5335, Jan. 30, 2020]




