# ยง 63.7352   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in ยง 63.2, and in this section as follows: 


*Acceptable makeup water* means surface water from a river, lake, or stream; water meeting drinking water standards; storm water runoff and production area clean up water except for water from the by-product recovery plant area; process wastewater treated to meet effluent limitations guidelines in 40 CFR part 420; water from any of these sources that has been used only for non-contact cooling or in water seals; or water from scrubbers used to control pushing emissions. 


*Backup quench station* means a quenching device that is used for less than 5 percent of the quenches from any single coke oven battery in the 12-month period from July 1 to June 30. 


*Baffles* means an apparatus comprised of obstructions for checking or deflecting the flow of gases. Baffles are installed in a quench tower to remove droplets of water and particles from the rising vapors by providing a point of impact. Baffles may be installed either inside or on top of quench towers and are typically constructed of treated wood, steel, or plastic. 


*Battery stack* means the stack that is the point of discharge to the atmosphere of the combustion gases from a battery's underfiring system.




*Battery waste heat flues* means the channels outside the coke oven and between the wall separating adjacent ovens as well as each end wall. At any one time, half of the flues in a given wall will be burning gas while the other half will be conveying waste heat from the combustion flues to a brick heat exchanger and then on to the battery combustion stack.

 


*Batterywide extended coking* means increasing the average coking time for all ovens in the coke oven battery by 25 percent or more over the manufacturer's specified design rate.


*Bypass stack* at a heat recovery facility means a stack through which emissions are discharged from a common tunnel that collects gases from a coke oven battery. and where the emissions are not passed through a heat recovery unit. Common tunnels typically are equipped with afterburners to further reduce organic emissions in the coke oven gas.

 


*By-product coke oven battery* means a group of ovens connected by common walls, where coal undergoes destructive distillation under positive pressure to produce coke and coke oven gas from which by-products are recovered. 


*By-product recovery plant area* means that area of the coke plant where process units subject to subpart L in part 61 are located. 








*Coke oven battery* means a group of ovens connected by common walls, where coal undergoes destructive distillation to produce coke. A coke oven battery includes by-product and nonrecovery processes.


*Coke plant* means a facility that produces coke from coal in either a by-product coke oven battery or a nonrecovery coke oven battery.




*Cokeside shed* means a structure used to capture pushing emissions that encloses the cokeside of the battery and ventilates the emissions to a control device. 


*Coking time* means the time interval that starts when an oven is charged with coal and ends when the oven is pushed. 


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source: 


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limitation (including operating limits) or work practice standard; 


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or 


(3) Fails to meet any emission limitation or work practice standard in this subpart during startup, shutdown, or malfunction, regardless of whether or not such failure is permitted by this subpart. 


*Emission limitation* means any emission limit, opacity limit, or operating limit. 


*Four consecutive* pushes means four pushes observed successively. 


*Fugitive pushing emissions* means emissions from pushing that are not collected by a capture system.


*Heat and/or nonrecovery coke oven battery* means a group of ovens, connected by common side walls, in which coal undergoes destructive distillation under negative pressure to produce coke and coke oven gas and from which by-products are not recovered. The common tunnels typically contain afterburners to further reduce organic emissions in the coke oven gas. For nonrecovery plants (*i.e.,* no chemical recovery) with heat recovery, the oven gases are vented through common tunnels to a heat recovery steam generator that produces steam. Heat recovery coke oven batteries may release oven gases through common tunnels and then into the atmosphere through bypass stacks when the heat recovery steam generators are not available due to maintenance or repair. For nonrecovery coke oven batteries (*i.e.,* no chemical recovery) without heat recovery, oven gases are vented through common tunnels and then released to the atmosphere through waste heat stacks.


*Heat recovery steam generator* is a process unit that recovers heat from coke oven gas in order to produce steam. Units typically are equipped with desulfurization units and baghouses to remove pollutants from the exhaust gases.


*Heat recovery steam generator bypass/waste heat stack* means a stack that allows coke oven gas to be vented from the coke oven batteries through common tunnels and into the atmosphere when there are no heat recovery steam generator units available for heat recovery. Common tunnels typically are equipped with afterburners to further reduce organic emissions in the coke oven gas.


*Heat recovery steam generator main stack* means the stack that is the point of final discharge to the atmosphere of the gases emanating from a heat recovery steam generator and its control devices, which typically are desulfurization units and baghouses.

 


*Horizontal flue* means a type of coke oven heating system used on Semet-Solvay batteries where the heating flues run horizontally from one end of the oven to the other end, and the flues are not shared with adjacent ovens. 


*Hot water scrubber* means a mobile scrubber used to control pushing emissions through the creation of an induced draft formed by the expansion of pressurized hot water through a nozzle. 


*Increased coking time* means increasing the charge-to-push time for an individual oven. 


*Nonrecovery coke oven battery* means a group of ovens, connected by common walls, where coal undergoes destructive distillation under negative pressure to produce coke and which is designed for the combustion of the coke oven gas from which by-products are not recovered. Also known as a heat and/or nonrecovery battery. Nonrecovery coke oven battery refers to units from which heat is recovered from the coke oven gas exhaust as well as units where heat is not recovered. Both heat and/or nonrecovery batteries are connected by common tunnels that typically include afterburners to further reduce organic emissions in the coke oven gas.




*Oven* means a chamber in the coke oven battery in which coal undergoes destructive distillation to produce coke. 


*Pushing* means the process of removing the coke from the oven. Pushing begins with the first detectable movement of the coke mass and ends when the quench car enters the quench tower. 


*Pushing/charging machine (PCM)* means the combined coke oven pushing and charging machine operated on rail tracks to open an oven door, push the finished coke from the open oven, and close the oven door, and to charge the adjacent oven with coal to start the coking cycle. Typically used with horizontal ovens such as those at nonrecovery coke facilities.










*Quenching* means the wet process of cooling (wet quenching) the hot incandescent coke by direct contact with water that begins when the quench car enters the quench tower and ends when the quench car exits the quench tower. 


*Quench tower* means the structure in which hot incandescent coke in the quench car is deluged or quenched with water. 


*Remove from service* means that an oven is not charged with coal and is not used for coking. When removed from service, the oven may remain at the operating temperature or it may be cooled down for repairs. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in ยง 63.2. 


*Short battery* means a by-product coke oven battery with ovens less than five meters in height. 


*Soaking* means that period in the coking cycle that starts when an oven is dampered off the collecting main and vented to the atmosphere through an open standpipe prior to pushing and ends when the coke begins to be pushed from the oven. 


*Soaking emissions* means the discharge from an open standpipe during soaking of visible emissions due to either incomplete coking or leakage into the standpipe from the collecting main. 


*Standpipe* means an apparatus on the oven that provides a passage for gases from an oven to the atmosphere when the oven is dampered off the collecting main and the standpipe cap is opened. This includes mini-standpipes that are not connected to the collecting main. 


*Tall battery* means a by-product coke oven battery with ovens five meters or more in height.


*Total acid gases* means the sum of hydrogen chloride and hydrogen fluoride.


*Total polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (total PAH)* means the sum of acenaphthene, acenaphthylene, anthracene, benz[a]anthracene, benzo[a]pyrene, benzo[b]fluoranthene, benzo[g,h,i]perylene, benzo[k]fluoranthene, chrysene, dibenz[a,h]anthracene, fluoranthene, fluorene, indeno (1,2,3-cd) pyrene, naphthalene, phenanthrene, perylene, and pyrene.

 


*Vertical flue* means a type of coke oven heating system in which the heating flues run vertically from the bottom to the top of the oven, and flues are shared between adjacent ovens. 


*Waste heat stack* at a heat and/or nonrecovery facility means a stack that allows coke oven gas to be vented from the coke oven batteries through common tunnels and into the atmosphere when there are no units available for heat recovery. Common tunnels typically contain afterburners to further reduce organic emissions in coke oven gas.




*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA. 








---

[N] [68 FR 18025, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 55755, July 5, 2024]




