# § 65.119   Master parachute rigger certificate: Experience, knowledge, and skill requirements.

An applicant for a master parachute rigger certificate must meet the following requirements: 


(a) Present evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that the applicant has had at least 3 years of experience as a parachute rigger and has satisfactorily packed at least 100 parachutes of each of two types in common use, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions—


(1) While a certificated and appropriately rated senior parachute rigger; or


(2) While under the supervision of a certificated and appropriately rated parachute rigger or a person holding appropriate military ratings.


(3) An applicant may combine experience specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a).


(b) If the applicant is not the holder of a senior parachute rigger certificate, pass a written test, with respect to parachutes in common use, on—


(1) Their construction, packing, and maintenance; 


(2) The manufacturer's instructions; and 


(3) The regulations of this subpart. 


(c) Pass an oral and practical test showing the applicant's ability to pack and maintain two types of parachutes in common use, appropriate to the type ratings the applicant seeks. To pass the oral and practical test for a master parachute rigger certificate, the applicant must satisfactorily demonstrate the objectives in the areas of operation applicable to a master parachute rigger specified in the Parachute Rigger Practical Test Standards (incorporated by reference, see § 65.23), as appropriate to the type rating sought.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 10468, 37 FR 13252, July 6, 1972, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2022-1463; Amdt. No.65-64, 89 FR 22520, Apr. 1, 2024; Amdt. No. 65-64A; 89 FR 29252, Apr. 22, 2024]






