# § 801.7   Reference methods and tolerances for near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) analyzers.

(a) *Reference methods.* (1) The chemical reference protein determinations used to reference and calibrate official NIRS instruments shall be performed in accordance with “Comparison of Kjeldahl Method for Determination of Crude Protein in Cereal Grains and Oilseeds with Generic Combustion Method: Collaborative Study,” July/August 1993, Ronald Bicsak, Journal of AOAC International Vol. 76, No. 4, 1993, and subsequently approved by the AOAC International as the Combustion method, AOAC International Method 992.23. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from Director, Technical Services Division, Federal Grain Inspection Service, 10383 North Executive Hills Blvd., Kansas City, MO 64153-1394. Copies may be inspected at the above address or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(2) The chemical reference starch determination used to reference and calibrate official NIRS instruments shall be performed in accordance with the Corn Refiners Association Method A-20, Analysis for Starch in Corn, Second revision, April 15, 1986, Standard Analytical Methods of the Member Companies of the Corn Refiners Association, Inc. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from Director, Technical Services Division, Federal Grain Inspection Service, 10383 North Executive Hills Blvd., Kansas City, MO 64153-1394. Copies may be inspected at the above address or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) *Tolerances*—(1) *NIRS wheat protein analyzers.* The maintenance tolerances for the NIRS analyzers used in performing official inspections for determination of wheat protein content shall be ±0.15 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the Combustion method, AOAC International Method 992.23.


(2) *NIRS soybean oil and protein analyzers.* The maintenance tolerances for the NIRS analyzers used in performing official inspections for determination of soybean oil shall be ±0.20 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the FGIS solvent oil extraction method; and for determination of protein content shall be ±0.20 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the Combustion method, AOAC International Method 992.23.


(3) *NIRS corn oil, protein, and starch analyzers.* The maintenance tolerances for the NIRS analyzers used in performing official inspections for determination of corn oil shall be ±0.20 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the FGIS solvent oil extraction method; for determination of protein content shall be ±0.30 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the Combustion method, AOAC International Method 992.23; and for determination of starch content shall be ±0.35 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the Starch method, Corn Refiners Association Method A-20.


(4) NIRS barley protein analyzers. The maintenance tolerances for the NIRS analyzers used in performing official inspections for determination of barley protein content are 0.20 percent mean deviation from the national standard NIRS instruments, which are referenced and calibrated to the Combustion method, AOAC International Method 992.23.



---

[N] [63 FR 35505, June 30, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; 71 FR 65373, Nov. 8, 2006]




