# § 1310.8   Freedom of Information Act.

While the Board is not part of the Department of the Treasury, the Board follows the regulations promulgated by the Department of the Treasury at subpart A (“Freedom of Information Act”) of part 1 (“Disclosure of Records”) of title 31 (“Money and Finance: Treasury”) of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). The procedures of 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 shall be followed for requesting access to records maintained by the Board, and processing such requests. Any reference in 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 to the “Department of the Treasury,” the “Department” or to a “bureau,” shall be construed to refer to the Board. In the event that the regulations at subpart A of part 1 of title 31 of the CFR subsequently are amended by the Department of the Treasury, the Board will follow those amended regulations. The following additional information is provided to implement 31 CFR 1.1 through 1.7 with respect to the Board. 


(a) *Public reading room.* The public reading room for the Board is the Treasury Department Library. The Library is located in the Main Treasury Building, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. For building security purposes, visitors are required to make an appointment by calling 202-622-0990. 


(b) *Requests for records.* Initial determinations under 31 CFR 1.5(h) as to whether to grant requests for records of the Board will be made by the Chief Administrative Officer or the designate of such official. Requests for records should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Request, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, Assistant Director, Disclosure Services, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. 


(c) *Administrative appeal of initial determination to deny records.* (1) Appellate determinations under 31 CFR 1.5(i) with respect to records of the Board will be made by the Executive Director, or the delegate of such official. 


(2) Appellate determinations with respect to requests for expedited processing shall be made by the Executive Director or the delegate of such official. 


(3) Appeals should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Appeal, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, Assistant Director, Disclosure Services, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. 


(d) *Delivery of process.* Service of process will be received by the Legal Counsel of the Board or the delegate of such official and shall be delivered to the following location: Legal Counsel, Air Transportation Stabilization Board, 1120 Vermont Avenue, NW., Suite 970, Washington, DC 20005. 




