# § 1988.101   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health or the person or persons to whom he or she delegates authority under MAP-21.


*Business days* means days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


*Complainant* means the person who filed a MAP-21 complaint or on whose behalf a complaint was filed.


*Dealer* or *Dealership* means a person selling and distributing new motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment primarily to purchasers that in good faith purchase the vehicles or equipment other than for resale.


*Defect* includes any defect in performance, construction, a component, or material of a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment.


*Employee* means an individual presently or formerly working for, an individual applying to work for, or an individual whose employment could be affected by a motor vehicle manufacturer, dealer, part supplier, or dealership.


*Manufacturer* means a person:


(1) Manufacturing or assembling motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment; or


(2) Importing motor vehicles or motor vehicles equipment for resale.


*MAP-21* means Section 31307 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act of 2012, Pub. L. 112-141, 126 Stat. 405, 765 (July 6, 2012) (codified at 49 U.S.C. 30171).


*Motor vehicle* means a vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured primarily for use on public streets, roads, and highways, but does not include a 

vehicle operated only on a rail line.


*Motor vehicle equipment* means—


(1) Any system, part, or component of a motor vehicle as originally manufactured;


(2) Any similar part or component manufactured or sold for replacement or improvement of a system, part, or component, or as an accessory or addition to a motor vehicle; or


(3) Any device or an article or apparel, including a motorcycle helmet and excluding medicine or eyeglasses prescribed by a licensed practitioner, that—


(i) Is not a system, part or component of a motor vehicle; and


(ii) Is manufactured, sold, delivered, or offered to be sold for use on public streets, roads, and highways with the apparent purpose of safeguarding users of motor vehicles against risk of accident, injury, or death.


*NHTSA* means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.


*OSHA* means the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.


*Respondent* means the person named in the complaint who is alleged to have violated MAP-21.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor.




