# § 141.620   General requirements.

(a) *General.* The requirements of subpart V of this part constitute national primary drinking water regulations. The regulations in this subpart establish monitoring and other requirements for achieving compliance with maximum contaminant levels based on locational running annual averages (LRAA) for total trihalomethanes (TTHM) and haloacetic acids (five)(HAA5), and for achieving compliance with maximum residual disinfectant residuals for chlorine and chloramine for certain consecutive systems.


(b) *Applicability.* You are subject to these requirements if your system is a community water system or a nontransient noncommunity water system that uses a primary or residual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light or delivers water that has been treated with a primary or residual disinfectant other than ultraviolet light.


(c) *Schedule.* You must comply with the requirements in this subpart on the schedule in the following table based on your system type.


(6) Your monitoring frequency is specified in § 141.621(a)(2).


(i) If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must begin monitoring in the first full calendar quarter that includes the compliance date in the table in this paragraph (c).


(ii) If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must begin monitoring in the calendar month recommended in the IDSE report prepared under § 141.601 or § 141.602 or the calendar month identified in the subpart V monitoring plan developed under § 141.622 no later than 12 months after the compliance date in this table.


(7) If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must make compliance calculations at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter (or earlier if the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters). If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date.


(8) For the purpose of the schedule in this paragraph (c), the State may determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain consecutive systems based on factors such as receiving water from a wholesale system only on an emergency basis or receiving only a small percentage and small volume of water from a wholesale system. The State may also determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain wholesale systems based on factors such as delivering water to a consecutive system only on an emergency basis or delivering only a small percentage and small volume of water to a consecutive system.


(d) *Monitoring and compliance*—(1) *Systems required to monitor quarterly.* To comply with subpart V MCLs in § 141.64(b)(2), you must calculate LRAAs for TTHM and HAA5 using monitoring results collected under this subpart and determine that each LRAA does not exceed the MCL. If you fail to complete four consecutive quarters of monitoring, you must calculate compliance with the MCL based on the average of the available data from the most recent four quarters. If you take more than one sample per quarter at a monitoring location, you must average all samples taken in the quarter at that location to determine a quarterly average to be used in the LRAA calculation.


(2) *Systems required to monitor yearly or less frequently.* To determine compliance with subpart V MCLs in § 141.64(b)(2), you must determine that each sample taken is less than the MCL. If any sample exceeds the MCL, you must comply with the requirements of § 141.625. If no sample exceeds the MCL, the sample result for each monitoring location is considered the LRAA for that monitoring location.


(e) *Violation.* You are in violation of the monitoring requirements for each quarter that a monitoring result would be used in calculating an LRAA if you fail to monitor.



---

[N] [71 FR 488, Jan. 4, 2006; 71 FR 4645, Jan. 27, 2006]




