# § 92.219   Recognition of matching contribution.

(a) *Match contribution to HOME-assisted housing.* A contribution is recognized as a matching contribution if it is made with respect to: 


(1) A tenant who is assisted with HOME funds; 


(2) A HOME-assisted unit; 


(3) The portion of a project that is not HOME-assisted provided that at least 50 percent of the housing units in the project are HOME-assisted. If the match contribution to the portion of the project that is not HOME-assisted meets the affordable housing requirements of § 92.219(b)(2), the percentage requirement for HOME-assisted units does not apply; or 


(4) The commercial space in a mixed-use project in which at least 51 percent of the floor space is residential provided that at least 50 percent of the dwelling units are HOME-assisted. 


(b) *Match contribution to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted.* The following requirements apply for recognition of matching contributions made to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted: 


(1) For tenant-based rental assistance that is not HOME-assisted: 


(i) The contribution must be made with respect to a tenant who is assisted with tenant-based rental assistance that meets the requirements of § 92.203 (Income determinations) and paragraphs (a), (c), (f), and (i) of § 92.209 (Tenant-based rental assistance); and 


(ii) The participating jurisdiction must demonstrate in writing that such assistance meets the provisions of §§ 92.203 and 92.209 (except § 92.209(e)). 


(2) For affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted: 


(i) The contribution must be made with respect to housing that qualifies as affordable housing under § 92.252 or § 92.254. 


(ii) The participating jurisdiction or its instrumentality must execute, with the owner of the housing (or, if the participating jurisdiction is the owner, with the manager or developer), a written agreement that imposes and enumerates all of the affordability requirements from § 92.252 and § 92.253(a) and (b) (Tenant protections), or § 92.254, whichever are applicable; the property standards requirements of § 92.251; and income determinations made in accordance with § 92.203. This written agreement must be executed before any match contributions may be made. 


(iii) A participating jurisdiction must establish a procedure to monitor HOME match-eligible housing to ensure continued compliance with the requirements of §§ 92.203 (Income determinations), 92.252 (Qualification as affordable housing: Rental housing), 92.253(a) and (b) (Tenant protections) and 92.254 (Qualification as affordable housing: Homeownership). No other HOME requirements apply. 


(iv) The match may be in any eligible form of match except those in § 92.220(a)(2) (forbearance of fees), (a)(4) (on-site and off-site infrastructure), (a)(10) (direct cost of supportive services) and (a)(11) (direct costs of homebuyer counseling services). 


(v) Match contributions to mixed-use or mixed-income projects that contain affordable housing units will be recognized only if the contribution is made to the project's affordable housing units. 



---

[N] [61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28929, May 28, 1997]




