# ยง 1.528-3   Association property.

(a) *Property owned by the organization. Association property* includes real and personal property owned by the organization or owned as tenants in common by the members of the organization. Such property must be available for the common benefit of all members of the organization and must be of a nature that tends to enhance the beneficial enjoyment of the private residences by their owners. If two or more facilities or items of property of a similar nature are owned by a homeowners association, and if the use of any particular facility or item is restricted to fewer than all association members, such facilities or items neverthelesswill be considered association property if all association members are treated equitably and have similar rights with respect to comparable items or facilities. Among the types of property that ordinarily will be considered association property are swimming pools and tennis courts. On the other hand, facilities or areas set aside for the use of nonmembers, or in fact used primarily by nonmembers, are not association property for the purposes of this section. For example, property owned by an organization for the purpose of leasing it to groups consisting primarily of nonmembers to be used as a meeting place or a retreat will not be considered association property.


(b) *Property normally owned by a governmental unit. Association property* also includes areas and facilities traditionally recognized and accepted as being of direct governmental concern in the exercise of the powers and duties entrusted to governments to regulate community health, safety and welfare. Such areas and facilities would normally include roadways, parklands, sidewalks, streetlights and firehouses. Property described in this paragraph will be considered association property regardless of whether it is owned by the organization itself, by its members as tenants in common or by a governmental unit and used for the benefit of the residents of such unit including the members of the organization.


(c) *Privately owned property. Association property* may also include property owned privately by members of the organization. However, to be so included the condition of such property must affect the overall appearance or structure of the residential units which make up the organization. Such property may include the exterior walls and roofs of privately owned residences as well as the lawn and shrubbery on privately owned land and any other privately owned property the appearance of which may directly affect the appearance of the entire organization. However, privately owned property will not be considered association property unless:


(1) There is a covenant or similar requirement relating to exterior appearance or maintenance that applies on the same basis to all such property (or to a reasonable classification of such property);


(2) There is a pro rata mandatory assessment (at least once a year) on all members of the association for maintaining such property; and


(3) Membership in the organization is a condition of ownership of such property.



---

[N] [T.D. 7692, 45 FR 26321, Apr. 18, 1980]




