# ยง 207.350   St. Croix River, Wis. and Minn.

(a) *Logging regulations for river above Lake St. Croix.* (1) During the season of navigation from May 1 to September 30, the full natural run of water in the river shall be permitted to flow between 1 a.m. on Thursday and 4 p.m. on Sunday of each week, and during the time between 1 p.m. on Wednesday and 4 p.m. on Sunday of each week no logs shall be sluiced into the river between St. Croix Falls, Wis., and Stillwater, Minn.


(2) Except during the period above mentioned, the parties engaged in handling logs upon the river shall have the right to sluice, drive, and float loose logs and to regulate the flow of water in the river as may best suit their convenience, all reasonable caution being taken to avoid log jams.


(3) This paragraph shall remain in force until modified or rescinded. (Act of May 9, 1900, 31 Stat. 172; 33 U.S.C. 410)


(b) *Power dam at Taylors Falls.* (1) That between April 1 and October 31, whenever the natural river flow exceeds 1,600 feet per second, the reduced flow shall be not less than 1,600 feet per second, and that whenever the natural flow be less than 1,600 feet per second, then the reduced flow shall not be less than such natural flow: *Provided,* That the District Engineer in charge of the locality may vary these requirements temporarily, as the interests of navigation, in his judgment, require, prompt report of his action in such instances to be made to the Chief of Engineers.


(2) The Northern States Power Co. shall establish automatic water-stage recorders of a type approved by the district engineer at the following localities:


(i) On the Nevers Pond near the dam.


(ii) On the St. Croix hydroplant pond near the dam.


(iii) On the St. Croix hydroplant tailrace.


(iv) On the St. Croix River near Osceola.


(v) On the St. Croix River near Marine.


(3) The gages are to be installed and maintained by the Northern States Power Co. in a manner satisfactory to the District Engineer, but their operation and inspection is to be under the sole direction of the District Engineer, who will retain the original records, furnishing the Northern States Power Co. with duplicates of the gage records.



---

[N] [Regs., Apr. 20, 1907, Apr. 10, 1931, as amended at 25 FR 8908, Sept. 16, 1960]




