# § 63.2386   What reports must I submit and when and what information is to be submitted in each?

(a) You must submit each report in subpart SS of this part, Table 11 to this subpart, Table 12 to this subpart, and in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section that applies to you. You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).


(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report according to Table 11 to this subpart and by the dates shown in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, by the dates shown in subpart SS of this part, and by the dates shown in Table 12 to this subpart, whichever are applicable.


(1)(i) The first Compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342. 


(ii) The first Compliance report must be postmarked no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342. 


(2)(i) Each subsequent Compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. 


(ii) Each subsequent Compliance report must be postmarked no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period. 


(3) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent Compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.


(c) *First Compliance report.* The first Compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section, as well as the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(1) Company name and address. 


(2) Statement by a responsible official, including the official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the report are true, accurate, and complete. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces this requirement.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(4) Any changes to the information listed in § 63.2382(d)(2) that have occurred since the submittal of the Notification of Compliance Status.


(5) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(11) of this section, if you had a SSM during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your SSM plan, the Compliance report must include the information described in § 63.10(d)(5)(i).


(6) If there are no deviations from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice standards, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period. 


(7) If there were no periods during which the CMS was out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CMS was out of control during the reporting period. 


(8) For closed vent systems and control devices used to control emissions, the information specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for those planned routine maintenance activities that would require the control device to not meet the applicable emission limit. 


(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description must include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods. 


(ii) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description must include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the applicable emission limit due to planned routine maintenance.


(9) A listing of all transport vehicles into which organic liquids were loaded at transfer racks that are subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, during the previous 6 months for which vapor tightness documentation as required in § 63.2390(c) was not on file at the facility.


(10)(i) A listing of all transfer racks (except those racks at which only unloading of organic liquids occurs) and of tanks greater than or equal to 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) that are part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart.


(ii) If the information specified in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section has already been submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status, the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section, as applicable, shall be submitted instead.


(11) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraph (c)(5) of this section no longer applies.


(12) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), for bypass lines subject to the requirements § 63.2378(e)(1) and (2), the compliance report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet (scf), the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in ppmv and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.


(d) *Subsequent Compliance reports.* Subsequent Compliance reports must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) and paragraph (c)(12) of this section and, where applicable, the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with an emission limitation in this subpart, or for each CMS that was inoperative or out of control during the reporting period, you must include in the Compliance report the applicable information in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (xv) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.


(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped, and the nature and cause of the malfunction (if known).


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours for each period that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours for each period that the CMS that was out of control.


(iv) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(xiii) of this section, the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM, or during another period.


(v) The total duration in hours of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percentage of the total emission source operating time during that reporting period.


(vi) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(xiii) of this section, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vii) The total duration in hours of CMS downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percentage of the total emission source operating time during that reporting period.


(viii) An identification of each organic HAP that was potentially emitted during each deviation based on the known organic HAP contained in the liquid(s).


(ix) A brief description of the emission source(s) at which the CMS deviation(s) occurred or at which the CMS was inoperative or out of control.


(x) The equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) of the CMS and the pollutant or parameter monitored.


(xi) The date of the latest certification or audit for each CMS.


(xii) A brief description of any changes in CMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(xiii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraphs (d)(1)(iv) and (vi) of this section no longer apply. For each instance, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(xiv) Corrective actions taken for a CMS that was inoperative or out of control.


(xv) Total process operating time during the reporting period.


(2) Include in the Compliance report the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, for each storage tank and transfer rack subject to control requirements, include periods of planned routine maintenance during which the control device did not comply with the applicable emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart.


(ii) For each storage tank controlled with a floating roof, include a copy of the inspection record (required in § 63.1065(b)) when inspection failures occur.


(iii) If you elect to use an extension for a floating roof inspection in accordance with § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv)(B) or (e)(2), include the documentation required by those paragraphs. 


(iv) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead for each storage tank subject to control requirements, include the start date, start time, end date and end time of any planned routine maintenance during which the control device used to control storage tank breathing losses did not comply with the applicable emission limits in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart.


(3)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, a listing of any storage tank that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 1 through 6, since the filing of the last Compliance report.


(ii) A listing of any transfer rack that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, since the filing of the last Compliance report.


(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart for storage tanks at an existing affected source no longer apply as specified in § 63.2346(a)(5). Instead, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must include a listing of any storage tanks at an existing affected source that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2b to this subpart, items 1 through 3, since the filing of the last Compliance report.


(4)(i) A listing of tanks greater than or equal to 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) that became part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart, since the last Compliance report.


(ii) A listing of all transfer racks (except those racks at which only the unloading of organic liquids occurs) that became part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart, since the last Compliance report.


(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), for each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.2380, the compliance report must include the items specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.999(c)(3).


(i) Records as specified in § 63.2390(h)(1) for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame or flare flame is present. Include the start and stop time and date of each 15-minute block.


(ii) Visible emission records as specified in § 63.2390(h)(2)(iv) for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.


(iii) The periods specified in § 63.2390(h)(6). Indicate the date and start and end time for the period, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.


(e) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a Compliance report pursuant to Table 11 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the Compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, we will consider submission of the Compliance report as satisfying any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a Compliance report will not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the applicable title V permitting authority.


(f) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must submit all Compliance reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through U.S. mail must be sent to the attention of the Organic Liquids Distribution Sector Lead. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under §§ 63.9(i) and 63.10(a), the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.


(g) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must start submitting performance test reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.


(h) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must start submitting performance evaluation reports in accordance with this paragraph. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2) that includes a relative accuracy test audit (RATA), you must submit the results of the performance evaluation following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k). The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. The results of performance evaluations of CEMS measuring RATA pollutants that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file.



---

[N] [69 FR 5063, Feb. 3, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 42910, July 28, 2006; 85 FR 40768, July 7, 2020; 89 FR 23867, Apr. 4, 2024]




