# § 721.11270   Dodecanedioic acid and 1,6-hexanediol polymer with 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropyl-2,2-dimethylhydracrylate, neopentylglycol, 1,2-ethanediol, adipic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 2-Oxooxopane, BayFlex 2002H and 1,1′-methylenebis(isocyanatobenzene) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as dodecanedioic acid and 1,6-hexanediol polymer with 3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethylpropyl-2,2-dimethylhydracrylate, neopentylglycol, 1,2-ethanediol, adipic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid, 2-Oxooxopane, BayFlex 2002H and 1,1′-methylenebis(isocyanatobenzene) (PMN P-17-320) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(3) through (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50. For purposes of § 721.63(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include particulate (including solids or liquid droplets).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: Skin irritation; respiratory complications; mutagenicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(o), (y)(1), and (y)(2). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance containing more than 1% residual isocyanate by weight.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [86 FR 46139, Aug. 18, 2021]




