# § 63.1281   Control equipment requirements.

(a) This section applies to each closed-vent system and control device installed and operated by the owner or operator to control air emissions as required by the provisions of this subpart. Compliance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section will be determined by review of the records required by § 63.1284, the reports required by § 63.1285, by review of performance test results, and by inspections.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Closed-vent system requirements.* (1) The closed-vent system shall route all gases, vapors, and fumes emitted from the material in an emissions unit to a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) The closed-vent system shall be designed and operated with no detectable emissions.


(3) If the closed-vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section.


(i) For each bypass device, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall either:


(A) At the inlet to the bypass device that could divert the stream away from the control device to the atmosphere, properly install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that is capable of taking periodic readings and sounding an alarm when the bypass device is open such that the stream is being, or could be, diverted away from the control device to the atmosphere; or


(B) Secure the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.


(ii) Low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and safety devices are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section.


(d) *Control device requirements for sources except small glycol dehydration units.* Owners and operators of small glycol dehydration units shall comply with the control requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.


(1) The control device used to reduce HAP emissions in accordance with the standards of this subpart shall be one of the control devices specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) that is designed and operated in accordance with one of the following performance requirements:


(A) Reduces the mass content of either TOC or total HAP in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater, as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d);


(B) Reduces the concentration of either TOC or total HAP in the exhaust gases at the outlet to the device to a level equal to or less than 20 parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d); or


(C) Operates at a minimum temperature of 760 degrees C, provided the control device has demonstrated, under § 63.1282(d), that combustion zone temperature is an indicator of destruction efficiency.


(D) If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.


(ii) A vapor recovery device (e.g., carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device that is designed and operated to reduce the mass content of either TOC or total HAP in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d).


(iii) A flare, as defined in § 63.1271, that is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11(b).


(2) [Reserved]


(3) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section by following the procedures specified in § 63.1282(d). 


(4) The owner or operator shall operate each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Each control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operating at all times when gases, vapors, and fumes are vented from the emissions unit or units through the closed vent system to the control device as required under § 63.1275. An owner or operator may vent more than one unit to a control device used to comply with this subpart.


(ii) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1283(d), the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of § 63.1282(e), or (f) as applicable.


(5) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall manage the carbon as follows:


(i) Following the initial startup of the control device, all carbon in the control device shall be replaced with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established for the carbon adsorption system. Records identifying the schedule for replacement and records of each carbon replacement shall be maintained as required in § 63.1284(b)(7)(ix). The schedule for replacement shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status Report as specified in § 63.1285(d)(4)(iv). Each carbon replacement must be reported in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.1285(e)(2)(xi).


(ii) The spent carbon removed from the carbon adsorption system shall be either regenerated, reactivated, or burned in one of the units specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (d)(5)(ii)(G) of this section.


(A) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X.


(B) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with this section.


(C) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with a national emissions standard for HAP under another subpart in 40 CFR part 61 or this part.


(D) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O.


(E) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator which the owner or operator has designed and operates in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.


(F) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(G) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace which the owner or operator has designed and operates in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.


(e) *Process modification requirements.* Each owner or operator that chooses to comply with § 63.1275(c)(2) shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall determine glycol dehydration unit baseline operations (as defined in § 63.1271). Records of glycol dehydration unit baseline operations shall be retained as required under § 63.1284(b)(9).


(2) The owner or operator shall document, to the Administrator's satisfaction, the conditions for which glycol dehydration unit baseline operations shall be modified to achieve the 95.0 percent overall HAP emission reduction, or BTEX limit determined in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, either through process modifications or through a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices. If a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices are used, the owner or operator shall also establish the emission reduction to be achieved by the control device to achieve an overall HAP emission reduction of 95.0 percent for the glycol dehydration unit process vent or, if applicable, the BTEX limit determined in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii) for the small glycol dehydration unit process vent. Only modifications in glycol dehydration unit operations directly related to process changes, including but not limited to changes in glycol circulation rate or glycol-HAP absorbency, shall be allowed. Changes in the inlet gas characteristics or natural gas throughput rate shall not be considered in determining the overall emission reduction due to process modifications.


(3) The owner or operator that achieves a 95.0 percent HAP emission reduction or meets the BTEX limit determined in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, using process modifications alone shall comply with paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. The owner or operator that achieves a 95.0 percent HAP emission reduction or meets the BTEX limit determined in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, using a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices shall comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section.


(i) The owner or operator shall maintain records, as required in § 63.1284(b)(10), that the facility continues to operate in accordance with the conditions specified under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(ii) The owner or operator shall comply with the control device requirements specified in paragraph (d) or (f) of this section, as applicable, except that the emission reduction or limit achieved shall be the emission reduction or limit specified for the control device(s) in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(f) *Control device requirements for small glycol dehydration units.* (1) The control device used to meet BTEX the emission limit calculated in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii) shall be one of the control devices specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) that is designed and operated to meet the levels specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.


(A) The mass content of BTEX in the gases vented to the device is reduced as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d).


(B) The concentration of either TOC or total HAP in the exhaust gases at the outlet of the device is reduced to a level equal to or less than 20 parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(e).


(ii) A vapor recovery device (e.g., carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device that is designed and operated to reduce the mass content of BTEX in the gases vented to the device as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d).


(iii) A flare, as defined in § 63.1271, that is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11(b).


(2) The owner or operator shall operate each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Each control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operating at all times. An owner or operator may vent more than one unit to a control device used to comply with this subpart.


(ii) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1283(d), the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of either § 63.1282(e) or (h).


(3) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall manage the carbon as required under (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.



---

[N] [64 FR 32648, June 17, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 34556, June 29, 2001; 68 FR 37357, June 23, 2003; 77 FR 49587, Aug. 16, 2012]




