# ยง 520.1242d   Levamisole resinate.

(a) *Specifications.* The drug is levamisole adsorbed on a resin, in a concentration equivalent to 10 percent levamisole hydrochloride. Each 2.05-ounce (58.1 gram) packet contains levamisole equivalent to 5.806 grams of levamisole hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 043781 in ยง 510.600(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Related tolerances.* See ยง 556.350 of this chapter. 


(d) *Conditions of use.* In swine it is used as follows:


(1) *Amount.* The equivalent of 8 milligrams per kilogram of body weight, as a single dose, mixed in the animal's ration. 


(2) *Indications for use.* For the removal of and control of the following nematode infections: large roundworms (*Ascaris suum*), nodular worms (*Oesophagostomum* spp.), lungworms (*Metastrongylus* spp.), intestinal threadworms (*Strongyloides ransomi*), and swine kidney worms (*Stephanurus dentatum*). 


(3) *Limitations.* For pigs from weaning to market weight, mix one 58.1-gram packet of levamisole resinate containing the equivalent of 10-percent levamisole hydrochloride in 40 pounds of feed and administer 1 pound of medicated feed per 40 pounds of body weight as sole ration. For breeding swine, mix 1 packet of the 10-percent resinate in 16 pounds of feed and administer 1 pound of medicated feed per 100 pounds of body weight as sole ration. Administer as single doses. Withhold regular feed overnight and administer medicated feed the following morning. Do not withhold water during fasting. Do not treat within 72 hours of slaughter. Salivation or muzzle foam may be observed. The reaction will disappear a short time after feeding. If pigs are infected with mature lungworms, coughing and vomiting may be observed. Consult your veterinarian for assistance in the diagnosis, treatment, and control of parasitism.



---

[N] [43 FR 18171, Apr. 28, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 3574, Jan. 18, 1980] 




