# ยง 906.5   Dwelling units and types of assistance that a PHA may make available under a homeownership program under this part.

(a) A homeownership program under this part may provide for sale of:


(1) Units that are public housing units; and


(2) Other units owned, operated, assisted, or acquired for homeownership sale and that have received the benefit of 1937 Act funds or are to be sold with the benefit of 1937 Act funds (non-public housing units). In selecting such units to be sold in a homeownership program under this part, the PHA shall not select units such that it could not comply with ยง 906.7(a).


(b) A homeownership program under this part may provide for financing to eligible families (*see* ยง 905.15 of this title) purchasing dwelling units eligible under paragraph (a) of this section under the program, or for acquisition of housing units or developments by the PHA for sale under the program.


(1) Under this part, a PHA may use assistance from amounts it receives under the Capital Fund under section 9(d) of the 1937 Act or from other income earned from its 1937 Act programs to provide assistance to public housing residents only to facilitate the purchase of homes (*e.g.,* counseling, closing costs, that portion of the down payment not required to be supplied from the purchaser's funds under the provisions of ยง 906.15(c), financing, and moving assistance). Public housing residents may use such assistance to purchase the unit in which they reside, another public housing unit, or a residence not located in a public housing development.


(2) A PHA may provide financing assistance for other eligible purchasers from other income, *i.e.,* funds not from 1937 Act programs, such as proceeds from selling public housing units, loan repayments, and public housing debt forgiveness funding not already committed to another purpose.


(3) In accordance with the rules and regulations governing the Section 8(y) Homeownership Option, found in 24 CFR part 982 subpart M, a PHA may make its housing choice voucher funds available to provide assistance to a family purchasing a unit under this part. A family receiving assistance under the Section 8(y) program and participating in a homeownership program under this part must meet the requirements of both programs.


(c) A PHA must not use 1937 Act funds to rehabilitate units that are not public housing units.




