# ยง 19-8.3   Applicability.

(a) All U.S. certificated and commuter air carriers conducting scheduled passenger services (except helicopter carriers) shall participate in a Passenger Origin-Destination (O&D) Survey covering domestic and international air carrier operations, as prescribed by the Department's Office of Airline Information (OAI) in the instructions manual entitled, *Instructions to Air Carriers for Collecting and Reporting Passenger Origin-Destination Survey Statistics* and in *Passenger Origin-Destination Directives issued by OAI.* Copies of these Instructions and Directives are available on the BTS web page and will be provided to each reporting carrier at the time it becomes a reporting carrier.


(b) Air carriers are not required to begin reporting O&D until placed on the Reporting Carrier List that will be published by BTS/OAI 75 days prior to the beginning of each period of reporting. The Reporting Carrier List will identify each U.S. Certificated and Commuter Air Carrier required by this part to report O&D as designated by BTS OAI. Carriers may be added to this list as a result of consideration under this part or under 49 U.S.C. 41308 and 41309 for certain Foreign Air Carriers granted antitrust immunity. Foreign Air Carriers granted antitrust immunity under 49 U.S.C. 41308 and 41309 are not considered Reporting Carriers under this part but do report the same data under different legal authority.


(c) This section applies for air transportation taking place on or after July 1, 2025. Reporting pursuant to section 19-7 of this part is not required for air travel taking place on or after April 1, 2025.






