# § 70.97   Failure to pay tax.

(a) *Negligence*—(1) *General.* If any part of any underpayment (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) is due to negligence or disregard of rules or regulations, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to the sum of 5 percent of the underpayment, and an amount equal to 50 percent of the interest payable under section 6601 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the portion of such underpayment which is attributable to negligence for the period beginning on the last date prescribed by law for payment of such underpayment (determined without regard to any extension) and ending on the date of the assessment of the tax (or if earlier, the date or the payment of the tax).


(2) Underpayment taken into account reduced by a portion attributable to fraud. There shall not be taken into account under paragraph (a) of this section any portion of an underpayment attributable to fraud with respect to which a penalty is imposed under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *Negligence.* For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term “negligence” includes any failure to make a reasonable attempt to comply with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and the term “disregard” includes any careless, reckless, or intentional disregard.


(4) The provisions of paragraph (a) apply to returns the due date for which (determined without regard to extensions) is after December 31, 1986.


(b) *Fraud*—(1) *General.* If any part of any underpayment (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) of tax required to be shown on a return is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to 50 percent of the portion of the underpayment which is attributable to fraud and an amount equal to 50 percent of the interest payable under section 6601 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such portion for the period beginning on the last day prescribed by law for payment of such underpayment (determined without regard to any extension) and ending on the date of the assessment of the tax or, if earlier, the date of the payment of the tax.


(2) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, apply to returns the due date for which (determined without regard to extensions) is on or before December 31, 1986.


(c) *Fraud*—(1) *General.* If any part of any underpayment (as defined in paragraph (d) of this section) of tax required to be shown on a return is due to fraud, there shall be added to the tax an amount equal to the sum of 75 percent of the portion of the underpayment which is attributable to fraud and an amount equal to 50 percent of the interest payable under section 6601 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such portion for the period beginning on the last day prescribed by law for payment of such underpayment (determined without regard to any extension) and ending on the date of the assessment of the tax or, if earlier, the date of the payment of the tax.


(2) Determination of portion attributable to fraud. If the appropriate TTB officer establishes that any portion of an underpayment is attributable to fraud, the entire underpayment shall be treated as attributable to fraud, except with respect to any portion of the underpayment which the taxpayer establishes is not attributable to fraud.


(3) The provisions of this paragraph (c) apply to returns the due date for which (determined without regard to extensions) is after December 31, 1986.


(d) *Definition of underpayment.* For purposes of this section, the term *underpayment* means the amount by which such tax imposed by the Internal Revenue Code exceeds the excess of—


(1) The sum of,


(i) The amount shown as the tax by the taxpayer upon the taxpayers return (determined without regard to any credit for an overpayment for any prior period, and without regard to any adjustment under authority of sections 6205(a) and 6413(a) of the Internal Revenue Code), if a return was made by the taxpayer within the time prescribed for filing such return (determined with regard to any extension of time for such filing) and an amount was shown as the tax by the taxpayer thereon, plus;


(ii) Any amount, not shown on the return, paid in respect of such tax, over—


(2) *The amount of rebates made.* For purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the term *rebate* means so much of an abatement, credit, refund, or other repayment, as was made on the ground that the tax imposed was less than the excess of the amount specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section over the rebates previously made.


(e) *No delinquency penalty if fraud assessed.* If any penalty is assessed under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section (relating to fraud) for an underpayment of tax which is required to be shown on a return, no penalty under section 6651 of the Internal Revenue Code (relating to failure to file such return or pay tax) shall be assessed with respect to the portion of the underpayment which is attributable to fraud.


(f) *Failure to pay stamp tax.* Any person who willfully fails to pay any tax which is payable by stamp or willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such tax or payment thereof, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be liable to a penalty of 50 percent of the total amount of the underpayment of the tax.


(g) *Additional penalty.* For additional penalty for failure to pay certain liquor and tobacco taxes, see 27 CFR 70.102.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-6, 38 FR 32445, Nov. 26, 1973, as amended by T.D. ATF-353, 59 FR 2522, Jan. 18, 1994]




