# § 86.107-98   Sampling and analytical system.

Section 86.107-98 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.107-96. Where a paragraph in § 86.107-96 is identical and applicable to § 86.107-98, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement “[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.107-96.” Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.107-96 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement “[Reserved].”


(a)(1)-(a)(3) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.107-96.


(a)(4) *Refueling emissions test.* The requirements detailed in § 86.107-90 (a)(1) shall apply. Alternatively, an enclosure meeting the specifications detailed in § 86.107-96 (a)(1), (2), or (3) may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator. In addition, the enclosure shall have one or more access ports leading to flexible, automatic sealing boots, in the wall(s) of the enclosure. The function of the access port(s) and boots shall be to allow fueling of the test vehicle from a fuel nozzle and hose located outside of the enclosure, with only the spout of the nozzle passing through the automatic sealing opening of the boot during fueling. There shall be no loss in the gas tightness of the enclosure at the opening of the boot either when the nozzle is inserted or when the nozzle is not inserted.


(b)-(d) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.107-96.


(e) *Temperature recording system*—(1) *For all emission testing.* A strip chart potentiometric recorder, an on-line computer system, or other suitable means shall be used to record enclosure ambient temperature during all evaporative emission test segments, as well as vehicle fuel tank temperature during the running loss test. The recording system shall record each temperature at least once every minute. The recording system shall be capable of resolving time to ±15 s and capable of resolving temperature to ±0.75 °F (±0.42 °C). The temperature recording system (recorder and sensor) shall have an accuracy of ±3 °F (±1.7 °C). The recorder (data processor) shall have a time accuracy of ±15 s and a precision of ±15 s. Enclosures shall be equipped with two ambient temperature sensors, connected to provide one average output, located 3 feet above the floor at the approximate mid-length of each side wall of the enclosure and within 3 to 12 inches of each side wall. For diurnal emission testing, an additional temperature sensor shall be located underneath the vehicle to provide a temperature measurement representative of the temperature of the air under the fuel tank. For running loss testing, an ambient temperature sensor shall be located at the inlet to the fan that provides engine cooling. Manufacturers shall arrange that vehicles furnished for testing at federal certification facilities be equipped with temperature sensors for measurement of fuel tank temperature. Vehicles shall be equipped with 2 temperature sensors installed to provide an average liquid fuel temperature. The temperature sensors shall be placed to measure the temperature at the mid-volume of the liquid fuel at a fill level of 40 percent of nominal tank capacity. An additional temperature sensor may be placed to measure vapor temperatures approximately at the mid-volume of the vapor space, though measurement of vapor temperatures is optional during the running loss test. In-tank temperature sensors are not required for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence specified in § 86.130-96 or for the refueling test specified in § 86.151-98.


(2) *Refueling emission testing only.* In addition to the enclosure ambient temperature recording system described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, strip chart recorder(s) or automatic data processor shall be used to record vehicle soak area ambient temperature and dispensed fuel temperature at the nozzle during the test. The temperature recorder(s) or data processor shall record each temperature at least once every 20 seconds (the soak area ambient temperature recorder may be a continuous recording system). The recording system shall be capable of resolving time to ±15s and be capable of resolving temperature to ±0.75 °F (0.42 °C).


(f)-(h)(3) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.107-96.


(h)(4) *Refueling emission test.* Blowers or fans must have a capacity of 0.8±0.2 cfm per cubic foot of the nominal enclosure volume. Circulated air shall not be aimed directly at the vehicle.


(5) *Spilled fuel mixing blower; refueling emission test.* An explosion-proof blower of 100-200 ft
3/min (2.8-5.7 m
3/min) capacity is required to enhance mixing of vapors from spilled fuel through the enclosure atmosphere during tests. The discharge from this blower shall be directed toward the region of the enclosure floor where fuel spillage during fueling may occur.


(i) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.107-96.


(j) *Refueling equipment.* The refueling equipment shall consist of a fuel delivery system with temperature control equipment, fuel flow safety switch, dispensing pump, hose, nozzle and a meter to measure the dispensed fuel volume. The dispensing nozzle shall be a commercial model, not equipped with vapor recovery hardware. A fuel recirculation system may be utilized to avoid trapping of unheated fuel in the hose. The fuel delivery system must be capable of delivering fuel at 67±1.5 °F (19.4±0.8 °C) and a constant flow rate between 4.2 and 9.8 gal/min (15.9 and 37.1 liter/min) with a tolerance of ±0.3 gal/min (±1.1 liter/min) during the refueling emissions measurement phase of the test. The accuracy of the meter for measuring the dispensed fuel volume shall be ±2 percent at the test flow rate.



---

[N] [59 FR 16295, Apr. 6, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 43890, Aug. 23, 1995]




