# § 63.7341   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) *Compliance report due dates.* Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit quarterly compliance reports for battery stacks and semiannual compliance reports for all other affected sources to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The first quarterly compliance report for battery stacks must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.7283 and ending on the last date of the third calendar month. Each subsequent compliance report must cover the next calendar quarter.


(2) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.7283 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source. Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(3) All quarterly compliance reports for battery stacks must be postmarked or delivered no later than one calendar month following the end of the quarterly reporting period. All semiannual compliance reports must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(4) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(b) *Quarterly compliance report contents.* Each quarterly report must provide information on compliance with the emission limitations for battery stacks in § 63.7296. The reports must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3), and as applicable, paragraphs (c)(4) through (8) of this section.


(c) *Semiannual compliance report contents.* Each compliance report must provide information on compliance with the emission limitations, work practice standards, and operation and maintenance requirements for all affected sources except battery stacks. The reports must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, and as applicable, paragraphs (c)(4) through (8) of this section.


(1) Company name and address (including county).


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces this requirement.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.


(4) Beginning on January 2, 2025, if you failed to meet an applicable standard, the compliance report must include, for each instance, the start date, start time, and duration (in hours) of each failure. For each failure, the compliance report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(5) If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in § 63.7333(e) for battery stacks, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period. If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in §§ 63.7333 through 63.7335 that apply to you (for all affected sources other than battery stacks), a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.


(6) If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including COMS, continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS), or CPMS) was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(7) For each deviation from an emission limitation in this subpart (including quench water limits) and for each deviation from the requirements for work practice standards in this subpart that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (including a COMS, CEMS, or CPMS) to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (7)(i) and (ii) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(ii) Information on the duration and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable and the corrective action taken.


(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous monitoring system (including COMS, CEMS, or CPMS) to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(4) and (8)(i) through (xii) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each continuous monitoring system (including COMS, CEMS, or CPMS) was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each continuous monitoring system (including COMS, CEMS, or CPMS) was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, the duration in hours, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(v) A summary of the total duration in hours of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(vi) A breakdown of the total duration in hours of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vii) A summary of the total duration in hours of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.


(viii) An identification of each HAP that was monitored at the affected source.


(ix) A brief description of the process units.


(x) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.


(xi) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.


(xii) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(xiii) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Part 70 monitoring report.* If you have obtained a title V operating permit for an affected source pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If you submit a compliance report for an affected source along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all the required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation or work practice standard in this subpart, submission of the compliance report satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements to your permitting authority.


(f) *Electronic reporting of compliance reports.* Beginning on July 7, 2026, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for one year, whichever date is later, submit all subsequent reports to the EPA via the CEDRI according to § 63.9(k) except that confidential business information (CBI) should be submitted according to paragraph (h) of this section.


(g) *Electronic Reporting of Performance Tests.* Beginning on September 3, 2024, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k). CBI should be submitted according to paragraph (h) of this section. Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or alternate electronic file. If a performance test consists only of opacity measurements, reporting using the ERT and CEDRI is not required.


(h) *Confidential business information (CBI).* For notifications and reports required to be submitted to CEDRI:


(1) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (f) or (g) of this section, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.


(2) For performance test reports according to paragraph (g) of this section, the file must be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(3) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.


(4) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. For performance test reports, CBI should be flagged to the attention of, the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; for all other reports and notifications, the Coke Ovens Sector Lead should be flagged. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(5) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group or Coke Oven Sector Lead as indicated in paragraph (4) of this section. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(6) All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(7) You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (f) or (g) of this section.





---

[N] [89 FR 55753, July 5, 2024]










