# § 1.6055-1   Information reporting for minimum essential coverage.

(a) *Information reporting requirement.* Every person that provides minimum essential coverage to an individual during a calendar year must file an information return and transmittal and furnish statements to responsible individuals on forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *In general.* The definitions in this paragraph (b) apply for purposes of this section.


(2) *Affordable Care Act.* The term *Affordable Care Act* refers to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148 (124 Stat. 119 (2010)), and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Public Law 111-152 (124 Stat. 1029 (2010)), and amendments to those acts.


(3) *ERISA.* The term *ERISA* means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).


(4) *Exchange. Exchange* has the same meaning as in 45 CFR 155.20.


(5) *Government employer.* The term *government employer* means an employer that is a governmental unit or an agency or instrumentality of a governmental unit.


(6) *Governmental unit.* The term *governmental unit* refers to the government of the United States, any State or political subdivision of a State, or any Indian tribal government (as defined in section 7701(a)(40)) or subdivision of an Indian tribal government (as defined in section 7871(d)).


(7) *Agency or instrumentality of a governmental unit.* [Reserved]


(8) *Minimum essential coverage. Minimum essential coverage* is defined in section 5000A(f) and regulations issued under that section.


(9) *Qualified health plan.* The term *qualified health plan* has the same meaning as in section 1301(a) of the Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18021(a)).


(10) *Reporting entity.* A *reporting entity* is any person that must report, under section 6055 and this section, minimum essential coverage provided to an individual.


(11) *Responsible individual.* The term *responsible individual* includes a primary insured, employee, former employee, uniformed services sponsor, parent, or other related person named on an application who enrolls one or more individuals, including him or herself, in minimum essential coverage.


(12) *Taxpayer identification number.* The term *taxpayer identification number* (TIN) has the same meaning as in section 7701(a)(41).


(c) *Persons required to report*—(1) *In general.* The following persons must file the information return and transmittal form required under paragraph (a) of this section to report minimum essential coverage—


(i) Health insurance issuers, or carriers (as used in 5 U.S.C. 8901), for all insured coverage, except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section;


(ii) Plan sponsors of self-insured group health plan coverage;


(iii) The executive department or agency of a governmental unit that provides coverage under a government-sponsored program (within the meaning of section 5000A(f)(1)(A)); and


(iv) Any other person that provides minimum essential coverage to an individual.


(2) *Plan sponsors of self-insured group health plan coverage*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, a plan sponsor of self-insured group health plan coverage is—


(A) The employer for a self-insured group health plan or arrangement established or maintained by a single employer (determined without application of section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) in the case of an employer described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section), including each participating employer with respect to a self-insured group health plan or arrangement established or maintained by more than one employer (and not including a multiemployer plan as defined in section 3(37) of ERISA or a Multiple Employer Welfare Arrangement as defined in section 3(40) of ERISA);


(B) The association, committee, joint board of trustees, or other similar group of representatives of the parties who establish or maintain the plan for a self-insured group health plan or arrangement that is a multiemployer plan (as defined in section 3(37) of ERISA).


(C) The employee organization for a self-insured group health plan or arrangement maintained solely by an employee organization;


(D) Each participating employer for a self-insured group health plan or arrangement maintained by a Multiple Employer Welfare Arrangement (as defined in section 3(40) of ERISA) with respect to the participating employer's own employees; and


(E) For a self-insured group health plan or arrangement for which a plan sponsor is not otherwise identified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (c)(2)(i)(D) of this section, the person designated by plan terms as the plan sponsor or plan administrator or, if no person is designated as the administrator and a plan sponsor cannot be identified, each entity that maintains the plan or arrangement.


(ii) *Government employers.* Unless otherwise provided by statute or regulation, a government employer that maintains a self-insured group health plan or arrangement may enter into a written agreement with another governmental unit, or an agency or instrumentality of a governmental unit, that designates the other governmental unit, agency, or instrumentality as the person required to file the returns and to furnish the statements required by this section for some or all of the individuals receiving minimum essential coverage under that plan or arrangement. The designated governmental unit, agency, or instrumentality must be part of or related to the same governmental unit as the government employer (for example, a political subdivision of a State may designate the State or another political subdivision of the state) and agree to the designation. The government employer must make or revoke the designation before the earlier of the deadline for filing the returns or furnishing the statements required by this section and must retain a copy of the designation in its books and records. If the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii) are met, the designated governmental unit, agency, or instrumentality is the sponsor under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. If no entity is designated, the government employer that maintains the self-insured group health plan or arrangement is the sponsor under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Special rules for government-sponsored programs*—(i) *Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) coverage.* The State agency that administers the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 and following sections) or the CHIP program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 and following sections) must file the returns and furnish the statements required by this section for those programs.


(ii) *Government-sponsored coverage provided through health insurance issuers.* An executive department or agency of a governmental unit that provides coverage under a government-sponsored program through a health insurance issuer (such as Medicaid, CHIP, or Medicare, including Medicare Advantage) must file the returns and furnish the statements required by this section.


(iii) *Nonappropriated Fund Health Benefits Program.* The Secretary of Defense may designate the Department of Defense components (as used in DoD Directive 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components (December 21, 2010)) that must file the returns and furnish the statements required by this section for the Nonappropriated Fund Health Benefits Program.


(4) *Other arrangements recognized as minimum essential coverage.* The Commissioner may designate in published guidance, see § 601.601(d) of this chapter, the reporting entity for arrangements the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, recognizes under section 5000A(f)(1)(E) as minimum essential coverage.


(d) *Reporting not required*—(1) *Qualified health plans.* A health insurance issuer is not required to file a return or furnish a report under this section for coverage in a qualified health plan in the individual market enrolled in through an Exchange.


(2) *Additional health benefits.* No reporting is required under paragraph (a) of this section for minimum essential coverage that provides benefits in addition or as a supplement to a health plan or arrangement that constitutes minimum essential coverage if—


(i) The primary and supplemental coverages have the same plan sponsor; or


(ii) The coverage supplements government-sponsored coverage (as defined in section 5000A(f)(1)(A) and the regulations under that section) such as Medicare.


(3) *Individuals not enrolled in coverage.* No reporting is required under this section for coverage offered to individuals who do not enroll.


(e) *Information required to be reported to the Internal Revenue Service*—(1) *In general.* All information returns required by this section must report the following information for the calendar year of coverage—


(i) The name, address, and employer identification number (EIN) of the reporting entity required to file the return;


(ii) The name, address, and TIN, or date of birth if a TIN is not available, of the responsible individual, except that reporting entities may but are not required to report the TIN of a responsible individual not enrolled in the coverage;


(iii) The name and TIN, or date of birth if a TIN is not available, of each individual who is covered under the policy or program;


(iv) For each covered individual, the months for which, for at least one day, the individual was enrolled in coverage and entitled to receive benefits; and


(v) Any other information specified in forms, instructions, or published guidance, see §§ 601.601(d) and 601.602 of this chapter.


(2) *Information relating to employer-provided coverage.* In addition to the information described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, information returns reporting minimum essential coverage provided to an individual that is coverage provided by a health insurance issuer through a group health plan must report—


(i) The name, address, and EIN of the employer sponsoring the plan;


(ii) Whether the coverage is a qualified health plan enrolled in through the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) and the SHOP's unique identifier; and


(iii) Other information specified in forms, instructions, or published guidance, see §§ 601.601(d) and 601.602 of this chapter.




(f) *Time and manner for filing return*—(1) *In general.* A reporting entity must file the return and transmittal form required under paragraph (a) of this section on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the year following the calendar year in which it provided minimum essential coverage to an individual. A reporting entity must file the return and transmittal form as specified in forms or instructions. For extensions of time for filing returns under this section see §§ 1.6081-1 and 1.6081-8. See § 301.6011-2 of this chapter for rules relating to electronic filing.


(2) *Form of return*—(i) *Applicable large employer members.* A reporting entity that is reporting under section 6055 as an applicable large employer member (as defined in § 54.4980H-1(a)(5) of this chapter) makes the return required under this paragraph (f) on Form 1094-C and Form 1095-C or other form designated by the Internal Revenue Service.


(ii) *Reporting entities not reporting as applicable large employer members.* Entities reporting as health insurance issuers or carriers, sponsors of self-insured group health plans that are not reporting as applicable large employer members, sponsors of multiemployer plans, and providers of government-sponsored coverage, will report under section 6055 on Form 1094-B and Form 1095-B or other form designated by the Internal Revenue Service.


(iii) *Substitute forms.* Reporting entities may make the return required under this paragraph (f) on a substitute form. A substitute form must comply with revenue procedures or other published guidance (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) that apply to substitute forms.




(g) *Statements to be furnished to responsible individuals*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, every person required to file a return under this section must furnish to the responsible individual identified on the return a written statement. For purposes of the penalty under section 6722, furnishing a statement to the responsible individual is treated as furnishing a statement to the payee. The statement must show—


(i) The phone number for a person designated as the reporting entity's contact person and policy number, if any; and


(ii) Information described in paragraph (e) of this section required to be shown on the section 6055 return for the responsible individual and each covered individual listed on the return.


(2) *Statements for individuals other than the responsible individual.* A reporting entity is not required to provide a statement described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section to an individual who is not the responsible individual.


(3) *Form of the statement.* A statement required under this paragraph (g) may be made either by furnishing to the responsible individual a copy of the return filed with the Internal Revenue Service or on a substitute statement. A substitute statement must include the information required to be shown on the return filed with the Internal Revenue Service and must comply with requirements in published guidance (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) relating to substitute statements. An Internal Revenue Service truncated taxpayer identification number may be used as the identification number for an individual in lieu of the identification number appearing on the corresponding information return filed with the Internal Revenue Service.


(4) *Time and manner for furnishing statements*—(i) *Time for furnishing.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g)(4)(i), a reporting entity must furnish the statements required under paragraph (g)(1) of this section on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the minimum essential coverage is provided. Reporting entities are granted an automatic, 30-day extension of time in which to furnish these statements.


(ii) *Manner of furnishing*—(A) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, if mailed, the statement must be sent to the responsible individual's last known permanent address or, if no permanent address is known, to the individual's temporary address. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(A), a reporting entity's first class mailing to the last known permanent address, or if no permanent address is known, the temporary address, discharges the requirement to furnish the statement. A reporting entity may furnish the statement electronically if the requirements of § 1.6055-2 are satisfied.


(B) *Alternative manner of furnishing.* A reporting entity shall be treated as furnishing the statement in a timely manner under this paragraph (g)(4) if the individual shared responsibility payment amount under section 5000A(c) for the calendar year in which the minimum essential coverage is provided is zero and the reporting entity satisfies the requirements in this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B). If the reporting entity is an applicable large employer member that sponsors a self-insured group health plan and makes a return in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section related to that plan, the applicable large employer member may use the alternative manner of furnishing described in this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) for statements to non-full-time employees and non-employees who are enrolled in the applicable large employer's self-insured group health plan. The reporting entity satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B) only if the reporting entity:


(*1*) Provides clear and conspicuous notice, in a location on its website that is reasonably accessible to all responsible individuals, stating that responsible individuals may receive a copy of their statement upon request. The notice must include an email address, a physical address to which a request for a statement may be sent, and a telephone number that responsible individuals may use to contact the reporting entity with any questions. A notice posted on a reporting entity's website satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B)(*1*) if it is written in plain, non-technical terms and with letters of a font size large enough, including any visual clues or graphical figures, to call to a viewer's attention that the information pertains to tax statements reporting that individuals had health coverage. For example, a reporting entity's website provides a clear and conspicuous notice if it includes a statement on the main page—or a link on the main page, reading “Tax Information”, to a secondary page that includes a statement—in capital letters, “IMPORTANT HEALTH COVERAGE TAX DOCUMENTS”; explains how responsible individuals may request a copy of Form 1095-B, Health Coverage (or, for an applicable large employer member that sponsors a self-insured group health plan and makes a return in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, explains how non-full-time employees and non-employees who are enrolled in the plan may request a copy of Form 1095-C, Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage); and includes the reporting entity's email address, mailing address, and telephone number;


(*2*) Posts the notice on its website by the date specified in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section and retains the notice in the same location on its website through October 15 of the year following the calendar year to which the statements relate (or the first business day after October 15, if October 15 falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday); and


(*3*) Furnishes the statement to a requesting responsible individual within 30 days of the date the request is received. To satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (g)(4)(ii)(B)(*3*), a reporting entity may furnish the statement electronically pursuant to § 1.6055-2(a)(2) through (6).




(h) *Penalties*—(1) *In general.* For provisions relating to the penalty for failure to file timely a correct information return required under section 6055, see section 6721 and the regulations under that section. For provisions relating to the penalty for failure to furnish timely a correct statement to responsible individuals required under section 6055, see section 6722 and the regulations under that section. See section 6724 and the regulations under that section for rules relating to the waiver of penalties if a failure to file timely or accurately is due to reasonable cause and is not due to willful neglect.


(2) *Application of section 6721 and 6722 penalties to section 6055 reporting.* For purposes of section 6055 reporting, if the information reported on a return (including a transmittal) or a statement required by this section is incomplete or incorrect as a result of a change in circumstances (such as a retroactive change in coverage), a failure to timely file or furnish a corrected document is a failure to file or furnish a correct return or statement under sections 6721 and 6722.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Applicability date.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (j), this section applies for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2014. Paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section apply for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2021, but reporting entities may choose to apply paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2020. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (j), paragraph (g)(4), as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2021, applies to calendar years ending after December 31, 2014, and beginning before January 1, 2022.





---

[N] [T.D. 9660, 79 FR 13227, Mar. 10, 2014; 79 FR 24331, Apr. 30, 2014, as amended by T.D. 9970, 87 FR 76575, Dec. 15, 2022]




