# ยง 235.9   Procurement and property management standards.

(a) *Requirements.* State agencies shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 concerning the procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with State Administrative Expense Funds. 


(b) *Contractual responsibilities.* The standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 do not relieve the State agency of any contractual responsibilities under its contract. The State agency is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the Program. This includes, but is not limited to source evaluation, protests, disputes, claims, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to the local, State or Federal authority that has proper jurisdiction.


(c) *Procurement procedure.* The State agency may use its own procurement procedures which reflect applicable State laws and regulations, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.


(d) *Property acquired with State administrative expense funds.* State Agencies shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in their utilization and disposition of property acquired in whole or in part with State Administrative Expense Funds.



---

[N] [Amdt. 9, 48 FR 19355, Apr. 29, 1983, as amended at 71 FR 39519, July 13, 200; 81 FR 66493, Sept. 28, 2016]




