# § 106.5   Procedures.

(a) *Application.* (1) A covered employee or covered dependent may apply for a HAVANA Act payment if the covered individual has sustained a qualifying injury to the brain on or after January 1, 2016. To apply for the benefit, the applicant must submit the “Eligibility Questionnaire for HAVANA Act Payments” claim form to the appropriate email address or fax number set forth in this paragraph (a). The claim form must be completed by a person eligible to file a claim under the HAVANA Act or by that person's legal guardian and must be signed by a currently certified physician as listed in § 106.3(a) of this part. The claim form must be emailed or faxed to the following address: *HRD_AHI_QUESTIONNAIR@FBI.GOV* or fax number (202) 323-9420 (covered FBI employees and dependents) or *HavanaActClaims@usdoj.gov* or fax number (202) 616-3200 (covered DOJ employees and dependents).


(2) The applicant must furnish additional documentation upon request.


(3) Copies of the claim form, as well as the regulations and other information, may be obtained by requesting the document or publications via an email to *HRD_AHI_QUESTIONNAIR@FBI.GOV* (covered FBI employees and dependents) or *HavanaActClaims@usdoj.gov* (covered DOJ employees and dependents).


(b) *Review.* For FBI covered employees and dependents, the Human Resources Division (HRD) of the FBI is responsible for reviewing the applications to determine their completeness. For other DOJ covered employees and dependents, the Justice Management Division (JMD) is responsible for reviewing the applications to determine their completeness.


(c) *Other incident.* The Department will determine whether a covered employee or covered dependent has a qualifying injury to the brain as set forth in § 106.2, and whether the incident causing the injury was in connection with war, insurgency, hostile act, or terrorist activity. The Department will as appropriate or necessary make a recommendation to the Secretary of State that the incident should be deemed an “other incident designated by the Secretary of State” for purposes of 22 U.S.C. 2680b(i)(1)(D) (cross-referencing subparagraph 2680b(e)(4)); or, for incidents affecting employees or dependents who are not under the security responsibility of the Secretary of State, the Department will as appropriate or necessary designate such incidents, under authority set forth in 22 U.S.C. 2680b(j).


(d) *Decisions.* For FBI covered employees and covered dependents, the Executive Assistant Director, Human Resources Branch, FBI, in their discretion may approve payments under the HAVANA Act. For all other Departmental covered employees and covered dependents, the Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Human Resources and Administration, JMD, in their discretion may approve payments under the HAVANA Act.


(e) *Appeals.* In the event of a decision to deny an application for payment under the HAVANA Act, the Department will notify the applicant in writing. Applicants may direct an appeal to the Assistant Attorney General for Administration within 60 days of the date of the notification of the denial. However, decisions concerning the amount paid are not subject to appeal. The Department will notify the applicant in writing of the decision on appeal.




