# § 60.5424b   What are my additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements if I comply with the alternative GHG and VOC standards for fugitive emissions components affected facilities and covers and closed vent systems?

This section provides notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements for owners and operators who choose to comply with an alternative GHG and VOC standard as specified in § 60.5398b for fugitive emissions components affected facilities and the alternative continuous inspection and monitoring requirements for covers and closed vent systems. You must submit an annual report in accordance with the schedule in § 60.5420b(b) which includes the information in paragraphs (a)(1), (b), and (d) of this section, as applicable. You must submit the notification in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and maintain the records in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section, as applicable.


(a) *Notifications.* If you choose to comply with an alternative GHG and VOC standard as specified in § 60.5398b for fugitive emissions components affected facilities and the alternative continuous inspection and monitoring requirements for covers and closed vent systems, you must submit the notification in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If you are required by § 60.5398b(c)(8) to develop a mass emission rate reduction plan, you must submit the notification in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(1) A notification to the Administrator of adoption of the alternative standards in the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(4) through (11).


(2) A notification, which includes the submittal of the mass emission rate reduction plan required by § 60.5398b(c)(8). You must submit the mass emission rate reduction plan to the Administrator within 60 days of the initial exceedance of the action level.


(b) *Information submittal.* If you comply with the periodic screening requirements of § 60.5398b(b), you must submit the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section in the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(4) through (11).


(1) Date of each periodic screening during the reporting period and date that results of the periodic screening were received.


(2) Alternative test method and technology used for each screening and the spatial resolution of the technology (*i.e.,* facility-level, area-level, or component-level).


(3) Any deviations from the monitoring plan developed under § 60.5398b(b)(2) or a statement that there were no deviations from the monitoring plan.


(4) Results from each periodic screening during the reporting period. If the results of the periodic screening indicate a confirmed detection of emissions from an affected facility, you must submit the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The date that the monitoring survey of your entire or the required portion of your fugitive emissions components affected facility was conducted.


(ii) The date that you completed the instrument inspections of all required covers and closed vent systems(s).


(iii) The date that you conducted the visual inspection for emissions of all required covers and closed vent systems.


(iv) For each fugitive emission from a fugitive emissions components affected facility and all emissions or defects of each cover and closed vent system, you must submit the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Number and type of components for which fugitive emissions were detected.


(B) Each emission or defect identified during the inspection for each cover and closed vent system.


(C) Date of repair for each fugitive emission from a fugitive emissions components affected facility or each emission or defect for each cover and closed vent system.


(D) Number and type of fugitive emission components and identification of each cover or closed vent system placed on delay of repair and an explanation for each delay of repair.


(5) The information in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section if you are required to conduct OGI surveys in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(1)(i) or if you replace a periodic screening event with an OGI survey in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(1)(iv).


(i) The date of the OGI survey.


(ii) Number and type of components for which fugitive emissions were detected.


(iii) Number and type of fugitive emissions components that were not repaired as required in § 60.5397b(h).


(iv) Number and type of fugitive emission components placed on delay of repair and an explanation for each delay of repair.


(6) Any additional information regarding the performance of the periodic screening technology as specified by the Administrator, as part of the alternative test method approval described in § 60.5398b(d).


(c) *Maintain records.* If you comply with the periodic screening requirements of § 60.5398b(b), you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) of this section in addition to the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(3) through (9) and (c)(14) and (15).


(1) The monitoring plan as required in § 60.5398b(b)(2).


(2) Date of each periodic screening and date that results of the periodic screening were received.


(3) Name of screening operator.


(4) Alternative test method and technology used for screening, as well as the aggregate detection threshold for the technology and the spatial resolution of the technology (*i.e.,* facility-level, area-level, or component-level).


(5) Records of calibrations for technology used during the screening if calibration is required by the alternative test method approved in accordance with § 60.5398b(d).


(6) Results from periodic screening. If the results of the periodic screening indicate a confirmed detection of emissions from an affected facility, you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) The date of the inspection of the fugitive emissions components and inspection of covers and closed vent system, as specified in § 60.5398b(b)(5).


(ii) Name of operator(s) performing the survey or inspection.


(iii) For surveys and instrument inspections, identification of the monitoring instrument(s) used.


(iv) Records of calibrations for the instrument(s) used during the survey or instrument inspection, as applicable.


(v) For each fugitive emission from a fugitive emissions components affected facility and each leak or defect for each cover and closed vent system inspection, you must maintain the records in paragraphs (c)(6)(v)(A) through (F) of this section.


(A) The location of the fugitive emissions identified using a unique identifier for the source of the emissions and the type of fugitive emissions component.


(B) The location of the emission or defect from a cover or closed vent system using a unique identifier for the source of the emission or defect.


(C) If a defect of a closed vent system, cover, or control device is identified, a description of the defect.


(D) The date of repair for each fugitive emission from a fugitive emissions components affected facility or each emission or defect for each cover and closed vent system.


(E) Number and type of fugitive emission components and identification of each cover or closed vent system placed on delay of repair and an explanation for each delay of repair.


(F) For each fugitive emission component placed on delay of repair for reason of replacement component unavailability, the operator must document: the date the component was added to the delay of repair list, the date the replacement fugitive component or part thereof was ordered, the anticipated component delivery date (including any estimated shipment or delivery date provided by the vendor), and the actual arrival date of the component.


(7) The date the investigative analysis was initiated, and the result of the investigative analysis conducted in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(5)(vi) and (vii), as applicable.


(8) Dates of implementation and completion of action(s) taken as a result of the investigative analysis and a description of the action(s) taken in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(5)(vi) and (vii), as applicable.


(9) The information in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (vii) of this section if you are required to conduct OGI surveys in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(1)(i) or if you replace a periodic screening event with an OGI survey in accordance with § 60.5398b(b)(1)(iv).


(i) The date of the OGI survey.


(ii) Location of each fugitive emission identified.


(iii) Type of fugitive emissions component for which fugitive emissions were detected.


(iv) The date of first attempt at repair of the fugitive emissions component(s).


(v) The date of successful repair of the fugitive emissions component(s), including the resurvey to verify the repair.


(vi) Identification of each fugitive emissions component placed on delay of repair and an explanation for each delay of repair.


(vii) For each fugitive emission component placed on delay of repair for reason of replacement component unavailability, the operator must document: the date the component was added to the delay of repair list, the date the replacement fugitive component or part thereof was ordered, the anticipated component delivery date (including any estimated shipment or delivery date provided by the vendor), and the actual arrival date of the component.


(10) Any deviations from the monitoring plan or a statement that there were no deviations from the monitoring plan.


(11) All records required by the alternative approved in accordance with § 60.5398b(d).


(d) *Information submittal.* If you comply with the continuous monitoring system requirements of § 60.5398b(c), you must submit the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section in the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(4) through (11).


(1) The start date and end date for each period where the emissions rate determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(6) exceeded one of the action levels determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(4). Include which action level was exceeded (the 7-day or 90-day rolling average), the numerical value of the action level, and the mass emission rate calculated by the continuous monitoring system in the report.


(2) The date the investigative analysis was initiated, and the result of the investigative analysis conducted in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(7), as applicable.


(3) Dates of implementation and completion of action(s) taken to reduce the mass emission rate and a description of the action(s) taken in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(7), as applicable.


(4) If there are no instances reported under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, report your numerical action levels and the highest 7-day rolling average and highest 90-day rolling average determined by your continuous monitoring system during the reporting period.


(5) The start date for each instance where the 12-month rolling average operational downtime of the system exceeded 10 percent and the value of the 12-month rolling average operational downtime during the period. If there were no instances during the reporting period where the 12-month rolling average operational downtime of the system exceeded 10 percent, report the highest value of the 12-month rolling average operational downtime during the reporting period.


(6) Any additional information regarding the performance of the continuous monitoring system as specified by the Administrator, as part of the alternative test method approval described in § 60.5398b(d).


(e) *Maintain records.* If you comply with the continuous monitoring system requirements of § 60.5398b(c), you must maintain the records in paragraphs (e)(1) through (15) of this section.


(1) The monitoring plan required by § 60.5398b(c)(2).


(2) Date of commencement of continuous monitoring with your continuous monitoring system.


(3) The detection threshold of the continuous monitoring system.


(4) The results of checks for power and function in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(1)(ii).


(5) The beginning and end of each period of operational downtime for the system.


(6) Each rolling 12-month average operational downtime for the system, calculated in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(1)(iv)(D).


(7) The 7-day rolling average and 90-day rolling average action levels for the site determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(4).


(8) The information in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (v) of this section each time you establish site-specific baseline emissions in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(5).


(i) Records of inspections of fugitive emissions components, covers, and closed vent systems required by § 60.5398b(c)(5)(i), including the date of inspection, location of each emission or defect identified, date of successful repair of each fugitive emissions component, cover, or closed vent system.


(ii) Records of inspections of control devices required by § 60.5398b(c)(5)(ii), including the date of the inspection and the results of the inspection.


(iii) The start date and time and end date and time of any maintenance activities that occurred during the 30 operating day period.


(iv) The site-level emission rate for each day during the 30 operating day period.


(v) The calculated site-specific baseline emission rate.


(9) Each methane mass emission rate reading determined by the system.


(10) Each daily, 7-day, and 90-day average mass emission rate which was determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(6). If you exceed the 90-day action level, you must also keep records of the 30-day average mass emission rate following completion of the initial actions to reduce the average mass emission rate, in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(8)(i).


(11) The results of each comparison of the emissions rate determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(6) to the action level determined in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(4).


(12) The date the investigative analysis was initiated, and the result of the investigative analysis conducted in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(7), as applicable.


(13) Dates of implementation and completion of action(s) taken to reduce the mass emission rate below the action level and a description of the action(s) taken in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(7), as applicable.


(14) Each mass emission rate reduction plan developed in accordance with § 60.5398b(c)(8), as applicable. You must keep records of the actions taken in accordance with the plan and the date such actions are taken.


(15) Any additional information regarding the performance of the continuous monitoring technology as specified by the Administrator, as part of the alternative test method approval described in § 60.5398b(d).



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62917, Aug. 1, 2024]






