# ยง 503.24   Future use of synthetic fuels.

(a) *Eligibility.* Section 211(b) of the Act provides for a temporary exemption based upon the future use of synthetic fuels. To qualify, a petitioner must certify that:


(1) The petitioner will be able to comply with the applicable prohibitions imposed by the Act by the use of a synthetic fuel derived from coal or another alternate fuel as a primary energy source in the proposed facility by the end of the proposed exemption period;


(2) The petitioner will not be able to comply with the applicable prohibitions imposed by the Act by use of a synthetic fuel until the end of the proposed exemption period; and


(3) No alternate power supply exists, as required under ยง 503.8 of these regulations.


(b) *Evidence required in support of a petition.* The petition must include the following evidence in order to make the demonstration required by this section:


(1) Duly executed certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) Exhibits containing the basis for the certifications required under paragraph (a) of this section (including those factual and analytical materials deemed by the petitioner to be sufficient to support the granting of this exemption); and 


(3) A preliminary compliance plan, including to the extent available, the information required under ยง 503.12.


(c) *Final Compliance Plan.* Before an exemption may become effective, the petitioner must submit and OFE must approve a final compliance plan as required by ยง 503.12.


(d) *Duration.* This temporary exemption may be granted for a period of up to ten (10) years. Unless the petitioner requests otherwise, any temporary exemption from the fuel use prohibitions of the Act for the future use of synthetic fuels will commence on the date of commercial operation of the facility.



---

[N] [46 FR 59903, Dec. 7, 1981; 47 FR 15315, Apr. 9, 1982; 54 FR 52894, Dec. 22, 1989] 




