# § 292.303   Electric utility obligations under this subpart.

(a) *Obligation to purchase from qualifying facilities.* Each electric utility shall purchase, in accordance with § 292.304, unless exempted by § 292.309 and § 292.310, any energy and capacity which is made available from a qualifying facility:


(1) Directly to the electric utility; or


(2) Indirectly to the electric utility in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) *Obligation to sell to qualifying facilities.* Each electric utility shall sell to any qualifying facility, in accordance with § 292.305, unless exempted by § 292.312, energy and capacity requested by the qualifying facility.


(c) *Obligation to interconnect.* (1) Subject to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, any electric utility shall make such interconnection with any qualifying facility as may be necessary to accomplish purchases or sales under this subpart. The obligation to pay for any interconnection costs shall be determined in accordance with § 292.306.


(2) No electric utility is required to interconnect with any qualifying facility if, solely by reason of purchases or sales over the interconnection, the electric utility would become subject to regulation as a public utility under part II of the Federal Power Act.


(d) *Transmission to other electric utilities.* If a qualifying facility agrees, an electric utility which would otherwise be obligated to purchase energy or capacity from such qualifying facility may transmit the energy or capacity to any other electric utility. Any electric utility to which such energy or capacity is transmitted shall purchase such energy or capacity under this subpart as if the qualifying facility were supplying energy or capacity directly to such electric utility. The rate for purchase by the electric utility to which such energy is transmitted shall be adjusted up or down to reflect line losses pursuant to § 292.304(e)(4) and shall not include any charges for transmission.


(e) *Parallel operation.* Each electric utility shall offer to operate in parallel with a qualifying facility, provided that the qualifying facility complies with any applicable standards established in accordance with § 292.308.



---

[N] [Order 688, 71 FR 64372, Nov. 1, 2006; 71 FR 75662, Dec. 18, 2006]




