# § 721.1925   Substituted carboheterocyclic butane tetracarboxylate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted carboheterocyclic butane tetracarboxylate (PMNs P-90-440 and P-95-4) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply when particle sizes of the chemical substance is greater than 250 microns.


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), (a)(5)(iii), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, and specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.



---

[N] [56 FR 19242, Apr. 25, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993; 67 FR 12885, Mar. 20, 2002]




