# ยง 800.73   Computation and payment of service fees; general fee information.

(a) *Computing hourly rates.* The applicable hourly rate will be assessed in quarter hour increments for:


(1) Travel from the FGIS field office or assigned duty station to the service point and return;


(2) The performance of the requested service, less mealtime.


(b) *Application of fees when service is delayed or dismissed by the applicant.* The applicable hourly rate will be assessed for the entire period of scheduled service when:


(1) Service has been requested at a specified location;


(2) A service representative is on duty and ready to provide service but is unable to do so because of a delay not caused by the Service; and


(3) FGIS officials determine that the service representative cannot be utilized to provide service elsewhere without cost to the Service.


(c) *Application of fees when an application for service is withdrawn or dismissed.* The applicable hourly rate will be assessed to the applicant for the entire period of scheduled service if the request is withdrawn or dismissed after the service representative departs for the service point, or if the service request is not canceled by 2 p.m., local time, the business day preceding the date of scheduled service. However, the applicable hourly rate will not be assessed to the applicant if FGIS officials determine that the service representative can be utilized elsewhere or released without cost to the Service.


(d) *To whom fees are assessed.* Fees for inspection, weighing, and related services performed by service representatives, including additional fees as provided in ยง 800.72, shall be assessed to and paid by the applicant for the service.


(e) *Advance payment.* As necessary, the Administrator may require that fees shall be paid in advance of the performance of the requested service. Any fees paid in excess of the amount due shall be used to offset future billings, unless a request for a refund is made by the applicant.


(f) *Form of payment.* Bills for fees assessed under the regulations in this part for official services performed by FGIS shall be paid by check, draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Marketing Service.



---

[N] [61 FR 43305, Aug. 22, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 26490, May 13, 2004; 89 FR 48265, June 6, 2024; 90 FR 535, Jan. 6, 2025]




















