# § 98.166   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each hydrogen production process unit:


(a) The unit identification number.


(b) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must report the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology. If the CEMS measures emissions from either a common stack for multiple hydrogen production units or a common stack for hydrogen production unit(s) and other source(s), you must also report the estimated decimal fraction of the total annual CO_2_ emissions attributable to this hydrogen production process unit (estimated using engineering estimates or best available data).


(c) If a material balance is used to calculate emissions using equations P-1 through P-3 to § 98.163, as applicable, report the total annual CO_2_ emissions (metric tons) and the name and annual quantity (metric tons) of each carbon-containing fuel and feedstock.


(d) The information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10):


(1) The type of hydrogen production unit (steam methane reformer (SMR) only, SMR followed by water gas shift reaction (WGS), partial oxidation (POX) only, POX followed by WGS, autothermal reforming only, autothermal reforming followed by WGS, water electrolysis, brine electrolysis, other (specify)).


(2) The type of hydrogen purification method (pressure swing adsorption, amine adsorption, membrane separation, other (specify), none).


(3) Annual quantity of hydrogen produced by reforming, gasification, oxidation, reaction, or other transformation of feedstocks (metric tons).


(4) Annual quantity of hydrogen that is purified only (metric tons). This quantity may be assumed to be equal to the annual quantity of hydrogen in the feedstocks to the hydrogen production unit.


(5) Annual quantity of ammonia intentionally produced as a desired product, if applicable (metric tons).


(6) Quantity of CO_2_ collected and transferred off site in either gas, liquid, or solid forms, following the requirements of subpart PP of this part.


(7) Annual quantity of carbon other than CO_2_ or methanol collected and transferred off site or transferred to a separate process unit within the facility for which GHG emissions associated with this carbon is being reported under other provisions of this part, in either gas, liquid, or solid forms (metric tons carbon).


(8) Annual quantity of methanol intentionally produced as a desired product, if applicable, (metric tons) for each process unit.


(9) Annual net quantity of steam consumed by the unit, (metric tons). Include steam purchased or produced outside of the hydrogen production unit. If the hydrogen production unit is a net producer of steam, enter the annual net quantity of steam consumed by the unit as a negative value.


(10) An indication (yes or no) if best available monitoring methods were used, in accordance with § 98.164(c), to determine fuel flow for each stationary combustion unit directly associated with hydrogen production (*e.g.,* reforming furnace and hydrogen production process unit heater). If yes, report:


(i) The beginning date of using best available monitoring methods, in accordance with § 98.164(c), to determine fuel flow for each stationary combustion unit directly associated with hydrogen production (*e.g.,* reforming furnace and hydrogen production process unit heater).


(ii) The anticipated or actual end date of using best available monitoring methods, as applicable, in accordance with § 98.164(c), to determine fuel flow for each stationary combustion unit directly associated with hydrogen production (*e.g.,* reforming furnace and hydrogen production process unit heater).





---

[N] [89 FR 31927, Apr. 25, 2024]












