# § 63.8830   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in 40 CFR 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Adhesive* means any chemical substance that is applied for the purpose of bonding foam to foam, foam to fabric, or foam to any other substrate, other than by mechanical means. Products used on humans and animals, adhesive tape, contact paper, or any other product with an adhesive incorporated onto it in an inert substrate shall not be considered adhesives under this subpart.


*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart, including but not limited to any emission limitation (including any operating limit); or


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to meet any emission limitation (including any operating limit) in this subpart, regardless of whether such failure is permitted by this subpart.




*Emission limitation* means any emission limit or operating limit.


*Flame lamination* means the process of bonding flexible foam to one or more layers of material by heating the foam surface with an open flame.


*Flame lamination line* means the flame laminator and associated rollers.


*HAP-based adhesive* means an adhesive containing 1.0 percent by weight or more of any individual or combination HAP listed in Table 8 to this subpart or 1.0 percent by weight or more of any other individual HAP, according to information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material, EPA Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63) or another approved alternative.




*Loop slitter* means a machine used to create thin sheets of foam from the large blocks of foam or “buns” created at a slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production plant.


*Research and development process* means a laboratory or pilot plant operation whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and which is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a *de minimis* manner.


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2.








---

[N] [68 FR 18070, Apr. 14, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 64401, Nov. 18, 2021]






