# ยง 249.2   Reservation of authority.

(a) The Board may require a Board-regulated institution to hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the Board-regulated institution's liquidity risk profile, if the Board determines that the Board-regulated institution's liquidity requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's liquidity risks. In making determinations under this section, the Board will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 263.202.




(b) The Board may require a Board-regulated institution to maintain an amount of available stable funding greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the Board-regulated institution's stable funding, if the Board determines that the Board-regulated institution's stable funding requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's funding risks. In making determinations under this section, the Board will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 263.202.




(c) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Board under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient liquidity levels, deficient stable funding levels, or violations of law.





---

[N] [79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9211, Feb. 11, 2021]






