# § 7.95   St. Johns Point, FL to Miami Beach, FL.

(a) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of St. Augustine Inlet north jetty to latitude 29°55′ N. longitude 81°15.3′ W. (St. Augustine Lighted Whistle Buoy “ST. A.”); thence to the seaward extremity of St. Augustine Inlet south jetty.


(b) A line formed by the centerline of the highway bridge over Matanzas Inlet.


(c) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Ponce de Leon Inlet north jetty to latitude 29°04.7′ N. longitude 80°54′ W. (Ponce de Leon Inlet Lighted Bell Buoy “2”); thence to Ponce de Leon Inlet Approach Light.


(d) A line drawn from Canaveral Harbor Approach Channel Range Front Light to latitude 28°23.7′ N. longitude 80°32.2′ W. (Canaveral Bight Wreck Lighted Buoy “WR6”); thence to the radio tower on Canaveral Peninsula in approximate position latitude 28°22.9′ N. longitude 80°36.6′ W.


(e) A line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Sebastian Inlet Jetties.


(f) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of the Fort Pierce Inlet North Jetty to latitude 27°28.5′ N. longitude 80°16.2′ W. (Fort Pierce Inlet Lighted Whistle Buoy “2”); thence to the tank located in approximate position latitude 27°27.2′ N. longitude 80°17.2′ W.


(g) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of St. Lucie Inlet north jetty to latitude 27°10′ N. longitude 80°08.4′ W. (St. Lucie Inlet Entrance Lighted Whistle Buoy “2”); thence to Jupiter Island bearing approximately 180° true. 


(h) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Jupiter Inlet North Jetty to the northeast extremity of the concrete apron on the south side of Jupiter Inlet. 


(i) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Lake Worth Inlet North Jetty to latitude 26°46.4′ N. longitude 80°01.5′ W. (Lake Worth Inlet Lighted Bell Buoy “2LW”); thence to Lake Worth Inlet Lighted Buoy “3”; thence to the seaward extremity of Lake Worth Inlet South Jetty. 


(j) A line drawn across the seaward extremity of the Boynton Inlet Jetties. 


(k) A line drawn from Boca Raton Inlet North Jetty Light “2” to Boca Raton Inlet South Jetty Light “1”. 


(l) A line drawn from Hillsboro Inlet Light to Hillsboro Inlet Entrance Light “2”; thence to Hillsboro Inlet Entrance Light “1”; thence west to the shoreline. 


(m) A line drawn from the tower located in approximate position latitude 26°06.9′ N. longitude 80°06.4′ W. to latitude 26°05.5′ N. longitude 80°04.8′ W. (Port Everglades Lighted Whistle Buoy “1”); thence to the signal tower located in approximate position latitude 26°05.5′ N. longitude 80°06.5′ W. 


(n) A line drawn from the seaward extremity of Bakers Haulover Inlet north jetty 090° true to longitude 80°07.2′ W.; thence to the seaward extremity of Bakers Haulover Inlet south jetty. 




