# ยง 1780.14   Security.

Loans will be secured by the best security position practicable in a manner which will adequately protect the interest of RUS during the repayment period of the loan. Specific security requirements for each loan will be included in a letter of conditions.


(a) *Public bodies.* Loans to such borrowers, including Federally recognized Indian tribes as appropriate, will be evidenced by notes, bonds, warrants, or other contractual obligations as may be authorized by relevant laws and by borrower's documents, resolutions, and ordinances. Security, in the following order of preference, will consist of:


(1) The full faith and credit of the borrower when the debt is evidenced by general obligation bonds; and/or


(2) Pledges of taxes or assessments; and/or


(3) Pledges of facility revenue and, when it is the customary financial practice in the State, liens will be taken on the interest of the applicant in all land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, water purchase contracts, water sales contracts, sewage treatment contracts, and similar property rights, including leasehold interests, used or to be used in connection with the facility whether owned at the time the loan is approved or acquired with loan funds.


(b) *Other-than-public bodies.* Loans to other-than-public body applicants and Federally recognized Indian tribes, as appropriate, will be secured in the following order of preference:


(1) Assignments of borrower income will be taken and perfected by filing, if legally permissible; and


(2) A lien will be taken on the interest of the applicant in all land, easements, rights-of-way, water rights, water purchase contracts, water sales contracts, sewage treatment contracts and similar property rights, including leasehold interest, used, or to be used in connection with the facility whether owned at the time the loan is approved or acquired with loan funds. In unusual circumstances where it is not legally permissible or feasible to obtain a lien on such land (such as land rights obtained from Federal or local government agencies, and from railroads) and the approval official determines that the interest of RUS is otherwise adequately secured, the lien requirement may be omitted as to such land rights. For existing borrowers where the Agency already has a security position on real property, the approval official may determine that the interest of the Government is adequately secured and not require additional liens on such land rights. When the subsequent loan is approved or the acquisition of real property is subject to an outstanding lien indebtedness, the next highest priority lien obtainable will be taken if the approval official determines that the loan is adequately secured.


(c) *Joint financing security.* For projects utilizing joint financing, when adequate security of more than one type is available, the other lender may take one type of security with RUS taking another type. For projects utilizing joint financing with the same security to be shared by RUS and another lender, RUS will obtain at least a parity position with the other lender. A parity position is to ensure that with joint security, in the event of default, each lender will be affected on a proportionate basis. A parity position will conform with the following unless an exception is granted by the approval official:


(1) It is not necessary for loans to have the same repayment terms. Loans made by other lenders involved in joint financing with RUS should be scheduled for repayment on terms similar to those customarily used in the State for financing such facilities.


(2) The use of a trustee or other similar paying agent by the other lender in a joint financing arrangement is acceptable to RUS. A trustee or other similar paying agent will not normally be used for the RUS portion of the funding unless required to comply with State law. The responsibilities and authorities of any trustee or other similar paying agent on projects that include RUS funds must be clearly specified by written agreement and approved by the State program official and the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). RUS must be able to deal directly with the borrower to enforce the provisions of loan and grant agreements and perform necessary servicing actions.


(3) In the event adequate funds are not available to meet regular installments on parity loans, the funds available will be apportioned to the lenders based on the respective current installments of principal and interest due.


(4) Funds obtained from the sale or liquidation of secured property or fixed assets will be apportioned to the lenders on the basis of the pro rata amount outstanding; provided, however, funds obtained from such sale or liquidation for a project that included RUS grant funds will be apportioned as required by the grant agreement.


(5) Protective advances must be charged to the borrower's account and be secured by a lien on the security property. To the extent consistent with State law and customary lending practices in the area, repayment of protective advances made by either lender, for the mutual protection of both lenders, should receive first priority in apportionment of funds between the lenders. To ensure agreement between lenders, efforts should be made to obtain the concurrence of both lenders before one lender makes a protective advance.




