# § 831.202   Continuation of coverage for food service employees of the House of Representatives and the Senate Restaurants.

(a) Congressional employees who were covered by the Civil Service Retirement System and provide food service operations for the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants can elect to continue their retirement coverage under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, when such food service operations are transferred to a private contractor. Senate Restaurants employees will be covered by Civil Service Retirement System Offset for the period of employment with the contractor. These regulations also apply to any successor contractors.


(b) *Eligibility requirements.* To be eligible for continuation of retirement coverage, an employee must: 


(1)(i) Be a Congressional employee (as defined in section 2107 of title 5, United States Code), other than an employee of the Architect of the Capitol, engaged in providing food service operations for the House of Representatives under the administrative control of the Architect of the Capitol, or


(ii) Be a Senate Restaurants employee who is an employee of the Architect of the Capitol on July 17, 2008;



'

(2) Be subject to subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code; 


(3) Elect to remain covered under civil service retirement provisions no later than the day before the date on which the food service operations transfer from the House of Representatives or the Senate Restaurants to a private contractor; and


(4) Become employed to provide food services under contract without a break in service. A “break in service” means a separation from employment of at least three calendar days. 


(c) *Employee deductions.* An employee who elects to continue coverage under title 5 retirement provisions is deemed to consent to deductions from his or her basic pay for the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund in the amount determined in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8334(k). The employer providing the food services under contract must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund the amounts deducted from an employee's pay. 


(d) *Employer contributions.* The employer providing food services under contract must, in accordance with procedures established by OPM, pay into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund amounts equal to any agency contributions that would be required if the individual were a Congressional employee covered by the Civil Service Retirement System.


(e) Beginning with annuity payments commencing on or after April 14, 2020, the rate of basic pay paid by a Contractor (defined by 2 U.S.C. 2051(a)(2)) to a covered former Senate Restaurants Employee (defined by 2 U.S.C. 2051(a)(1)) for any period of continuous service performed as an employee of the contract shall be deemed to be basic pay for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 8331(3) and (4).




(f) The agency contributions and employee deductions that must be paid in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8423 and 2 U.S.C. 2051(c)(6)(A)(ii) for the period on or after June 12, 2019, until April 14, 2020 must be treated in accordance with § 831.111 of this chapter.



---

[N] [52 FR 5069, Feb. 19, 1987, and 53 FR 10055, Mar. 29, 1988. Redesignated at 53 FR 10055, Mar. 29, 1988; 85 FR 20576, Apr. 14, 2020]




