# ยง 74.203   FD&C Green No. 3.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive FD&C Green No. 3 is principally the inner salt disodium salt of *N*-ethyl-*N-*[4-[[4-[ethyl[(3-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-3-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide (CAS Reg. No. 2353-45-9); with smaller amounts of the isomeric inner salt disodium salt of *N*-ethyl-*N-*[4-[[4-[ethyl[(3-sulfophenyl)methyl] amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-4-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide; of *N*-ethyl-*N-*[4-[[4-[ethyl[(4-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-4-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide and of *N*-ethyl-*N-*[4-[[4-[ethyl[(2-sulfophenyl)methyl]amino]phenyl](4-hydroxy-2-sulfophenyl)methylene]-2,5-cyclohexadien-1-ylidene]-3-sulfobenzenemethanaminium hydroxide. Additionally, FD&C Green No. 3 is manufactured by the acid catalyzed condensation of one molecule of 2-formyl-5-hydroxybenzenesulfonic acid with two molecules from a mixture consisting principally of 3-[(ethylphenylamino)methyl]


(2) Color additive mixtures for food use (including dietary supplements) made with FD&C Green No. 3 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring food.


(b) *Specifications.* The color additive FD&C Green No. 3 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* The color additive FD&C Green No. 3 may be safely used for coloring foods (including dietary supplements) generally in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice except that it may not be used to color foods for which standards of identity have been promulgated under section 401 of the act unless added color is authorized by such standards.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of FD&C Green No. 3 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.



---

[N] [47 FR 52143, Nov. 19, 1982; 47 FR 56489, Dec. 17, 1982]




