# § 117.68   Distress flares and smoke signals.

(a) *Oceans, coastwise, limited coastwise, and Great Lakes routes.* A vessel on an oceans, coastwise, limited coastwise, or Great Lakes route must carry—


(1) Six hand red flare distress signals approved in accordance with § 160.021 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant, including, but not limited to, approval series 160.121; and


(2) Six hand orange smoke distress signals approved in accordance with § 160.037 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.


(b) *Lakes, bays, and sounds, and rivers routes.* A vessel on a lakes, bays, and sounds, or rivers route must carry:


(1) Three hand red flare distress signals approved in accordance with § 160.021 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant, including, but not limited to, approval series 160.121; and


(2) Three hand orange smoke distress signals approved in accordance with § 160.037 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.


(c) *Substitutions.* (1) A rocket parachute flare approved in accordance with § 160.036 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant, may be substituted for any of the hand red flare distress signals required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.


(2) One of the following may be substituted for any of the hand orange smoke distress signals required under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section:


(i) A rocket parachute flare approved in accordance with § 160.036 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant.


(ii) A hand red flare distress signal approved in accordance with § 160.021 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant, including, but not limited to, approval series 160.121.


(iii) A floating orange smoke distress signal approved in accordance with § 160.022 in subchapter Q of this chapter, or other standard specified by the Commandant, including, but not limited to, approval series 160.122.


(d) *Exemption for vessels on short runs.* A vessel operating on short runs limited to approximately 30 minutes away from the dock is not required to carry distress flares and smoke signals under this section.


(e) *Stowage.* Each flare carried to meet this section must be stowed in one of the following:


(1) A portable watertight container carried at the operating station, and marked as required by § 122.614 of this subchapter; or


(2) A pyrotechnic locker secured above the freeboard deck, away from heat, in the vicinity of the operating station.



---

[N] [CGD 85-080, 61 FR 911, Jan. 10, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 51350, Sept. 30, 1997; USCG-2015-0867, 80 FR 62469, Oct. 16, 2015]




