# ยง 25.167   Notice of brewer to pay reduced rate of tax.

(a) *Requirement to file notice.* Every brewer who desires to pay the reduced rate of tax on beer authorized by 26 U.S.C. 5051(a)(2) by tax return, Form 5000.24, shall prepare a notice containing the information required by paragraph (b) of this section. The brewer shall file this notice with the appropriate TTB officer for the first return period (or prepayment return) during which the brewer pays tax on beer at the reduced rate. The brewer shall file the notice each year in which payment of the reduced rate of tax on beer is made by return.


(b) *Information to be furnished.* Each notice described in paragraph (a) of this section will contain the following information:


(1) A statement that the brewer will not or is not likely to produce more than 2,000,000 barrels of beer in the calendar year for which the notice is filed.


(2) A statement that the brewer is not a member of a controlled group of brewers, or if the brewer is a member of a controlled group of brewers, a statement that the controlled group will not or is not likely to produce more than 2,000,000 barrels of beer in the calendar year for which the notice is filed.


(3) If the brewer operates more than one brewery, a statement of the locations of all the breweries and a statement of how the 60,000 barrel limitation for the reduced rate of tax will be apportioned among the breweries. If the brewer is a member of a controlled group of brewers, a statement of the names and locations of all other brewers in the group and a statement of how the 60,000 barrels limitation will be apportioned among the brewers in the group.


(c) *Perjury statement.* Each notice described in this section will be executed by the brewer under penalties of perjury as defined in ยง 25.11.


