# ยง 203.50   Requirements for wholesale distribution of prescription drugs.

(a) *Identifying statement for sales by unauthorized distributors.* Before the completion of any wholesale distribution by a wholesale distributor of a prescription drug for which the seller is not an authorized distributor of record to another wholesale distributor or retail pharmacy, the seller shall provide to the purchaser a statement identifying each prior sale, purchase, or trade of such drug. This identifying statement shall include:


(1) The proprietary and established name of the drug;


(2) Dosage;


(3) Container size;


(4) Number of containers;


(5) The drug's lot or control number(s);


(6) The business name and address of all parties to each prior transaction involving the drug, starting with the manufacturer; and


(7) The date of each previous transaction.


(b) The drug origin statement is subject to the record retention requirements of ยง 203.60 and must be retained by all wholesale distributors involved in the distribution of the drug product, whether authorized or unauthorized, for 3 years.


(c) *Identifying statement not required when additional manufacturing processes are completed.* A manufacturer that subjects a drug to any additional manufacturing processes to produce a different drug is not required to provide to a purchaser a statement identifying the previous sales of the component drug or drugs.


(d) *List of authorized distributors of record.* Each manufacturer shall maintain at the corporate offices a current written list of all authorized distributors of record.


(1) Each manufacturer's list of authorized distributors of record shall specify whether each distributor listed thereon is authorized to distribute the manufacturer's full product line or only particular, specified products.


(2) Each manufacturer shall update its list of authorized distributors of record on a continuing basis.


(3) Each manufacturer shall make its list of authorized distributors of record available on request to the public for inspection or copying. A manufacturer may impose reasonable copying charges for such requests from members of the public.




