# § 1.50-1   Lessee's income inclusion following election of lessor of investment credit property to treat lessee as acquirer.

(a) *In general.* Section 50(d)(5) provides that, for purposes of computing the investment credit, rules similar to the rules of former section 48(d) (relating to certain leased property) (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388 (November 5, 1990))) apply. This section provides rules similar to the rules of former section 48(d)(5) that the Secretary has determined shall apply for purposes of determining the inclusion in gross income required when a lessor elects to treat a lessee as having acquired investment credit property.


(b) *Coordination with basis adjustment rules.* In the case of any property with respect to which an election is made under § 1.48-4 by a lessor of investment credit property to treat the lessee as having acquired the property—


(1) *Basis adjustment.* Section 50(c) does not apply with respect to such property.


(2) *Amount of credit included ratably in gross income*—(i) *In general.* A lessee of the property must include ratably in gross income, over the shortest recovery period which could be applicable under section 168 with respect to that property, an amount equal to the amount of the credit determined under section 46 with respect to that property. The ratable income inclusion under this paragraph begins on the date the investment credit property is placed in service and continues on each one year anniversary date thereafter until the end of the applicable recovery period. The lessee will include in gross income the amount of its credit determined under section 46 regardless of limitations on the amount of the credit allowed under section 38(c) based on the amount of the lessee's income tax.


(ii) *Special rule for the energy credit.* In the case of any energy credit determined under section 48(a), paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section applies only to the extent of 50 percent of the amount of the credit determined under section 46.


(3) *Special rule for partnerships and S corporations*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if the lessee of the property is a partnership (other than an electing large partnership) or an S corporation, the gross income includible under such paragraph is not an item of partnership income to which the rules of subchapter K of Chapter 1, subtitle A of the Code apply or an item of S corporation income to which the rules of subchapter S of Chapter 1, subtitle A of the Code apply. Any partner or S corporation shareholder that is an ultimate credit claimant (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section) is treated as a lessee that must include in gross income the amounts required under paragraph (b)(2) of this section in proportion to the credit determined under section 46 with respect to such partner or S corporation shareholder.


(ii) *Definition of ultimate credit claimant.* For purposes of this section, the term *ultimate credit claimant* means any partner or S corporation shareholder that files (or that would file) Form 3468, “Investment Credit,” with such partner's or S corporation shareholder's income tax return to claim an investment credit determined under section 46 with respect to such partner or S corporation shareholder.


(c) *Coordination with the recapture rules*—(1) *In general.* If section 50(a) requires an increase in the lessee's or the ultimate credit claimant's tax or a reduction in the carryback or carryover of an unused credit (or both) as a result of an early disposition (including a lease termination), etc., of leased property for which an election had been made under § 1.48-4, the lessee or the ultimate credit claimant is required to include in gross income an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the amount of the credit that is not recaptured over the total increases in gross income previously made under paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to the property. Such amount is in addition to the amounts the lessee or the ultimate credit claimant previously included in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) *Income inclusion exceeds unrecaptured credit.* If section 50(a) requires an increase in the lessee's or ultimate credit claimant's tax or a reduction in the carryback or carryover of an unused credit (or both) as a result of an early disposition (including a lease termination), etc., of leased property for which an election had been made under § 1.48-4, the lessee's or the ultimate credit claimant's gross income shall be reduced by an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the total increases in gross income previously included under paragraph (b)(2) of this section over the amount of the credit that is not recaptured.


(3) *Special rule for the energy credit.* In the case of any energy credit determined under section 48(a), paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply by substituting the phrase “50 percent of the amount of the credit that is not recaptured” for the phrase “the amount of the credit that is not recaptured.”


(4) *Timing of income inclusion or reduction following recapture.* Any adjustment required by paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section is taken into account in the taxable year in which the property is disposed of or otherwise ceases to be investment credit property.


(d) *Election to accelerate income inclusion outside of the recapture period*—(1) *In general.* If after the recapture period described in section 50(a), but prior to the expiration of the recovery period described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, there is a lease termination, the lessee otherwise disposes of the lease, or a partner or S corporation shareholder that is an ultimate credit claimant disposes of its entire interest, either direct or indirect, in a lessee partnership (other than an electing large partnership) or S corporation, the lessee, or, in the case of a partnership or S corporation, the ultimate credit claimant may irrevocably elect to take into account the remaining amount required to be included in gross income under this section in the taxable year of the disposition or termination.


(2) *Exceptions.* The election provided under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is not available to—


(i) Lessees or ultimate credit claimants required by paragraph (c) of this section to account for the remaining amount required to be included in gross income after accounting for recapture in the taxable year in which the property was disposed of or otherwise ceased to be investment credit property under section 50(a); or


(ii) Former partners or S corporation shareholders that own no interest, either direct or indirect, in a lessee partnership or S corporation at the time of a lease termination or disposition.


(3) *Manner and time for making election.* The election under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is made by including the remaining amount required to be included under this section in gross income in the taxable year of the lease termination or disposition or the disposition of the ultimate credit claimant's entire interest, either direct or indirect, in a partnership or S corporation. The election must be made on or before the due date (including any extension of time) of the lessee's income tax return, or, in the case of a partnership or S corporation, the ultimate credit claimant's income tax return for the taxable year in which the lease termination or disposition or the disposition of the ultimate credit claimant's entire interest, either direct or indirect, in a partnership or S corporation occurs.


(e) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(1) *Example 1.* X, a calendar year C corporation, leases nonresidential real property from Y. The property is placed in service on October 1, 2016. Y elects under § 1.48-4 to treat X as having acquired the property. X's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 with respect to such property is $9,750. The shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 39 years. Because Y has elected to treat X as having acquired the property, Y does not reduce its basis in the property under section 50(c). Instead, X, the lessee of the property, must include ratably in gross income over 39 years an amount equal to the credit determined under section 46 with respect to such property. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, X's increase in gross income for each of the 39 years beginning with 2016 is $250 ($9,750/39 year recovery period).


(2) *Example 2.* The facts are the same as in *Example 1* in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, except that instead of nonresidential real property, X leases from Y solar energy equipment for which an energy credit under section 48 is determined under section 46. X's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 with respect to the property is $9,750. The shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 5 years. X, the lessee of the property, must include ratably in gross income over 5 years an amount equal to 50% of the credit determined under section 46 with respect to such property. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, X's increase in gross income for each of the 5 years beginning with 2016 is $975 ($4,875/5 year recovery period).


(3) *Example 3.* A and B, calendar year taxpayers, form a partnership, the AB partnership, that leases nonresidential real property from Y. The property is placed in service on October 1, 2016. Y elects under § 1.48-4 to treat the AB partnership as having acquired the property. A's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 is $3,900 and B's investment credit determined under section 46 for 2016 is $7,800 with respect to the property. The shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 39 years. Because Y has elected to treat the AB partnership as having acquired the property, Y does not reduce its basis in the building under section 50(c). Instead, A and B, the ultimate credit claimants, must include the amount of the credit determined with respect to A and B under section 46 ratably in gross income over 39 years, the shortest recovery period available with respect to such property. Therefore, A and B must include ratably in gross income over 39 years under paragraph (b)(2) of this section an amount equal to $3,900 and $7,800, respectively. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, A's increase in gross income for each of the 39 years beginning with 2016 is $100 ($3,900/39 year recovery period) and B's is $200 ($7,800/39 year recovery period). Because the gross income A and B are required to include under paragraph (b)(2) of this section is not an item of partnership income, the rules under subchapter K applicable to items of partnership income do not apply with respect to such income. In particular, A and B are not entitled to an increase in the outside basis of their partnership interests under section 705(a) and are not entitled to an increase in their capital accounts under section 704(b).


(4) *Example 4.* The facts are the same as in *Example 3* in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, except that on January 1, 2019, the lease between AB partnership and Y terminates (Y retains ownership of the property), which is a recapture event under section 50(a). A's and B's income tax for 2019 is increased under section 50(a) by $2,340 and $4,680, respectively (60% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively, assuming that the aggregate decrease in the credits allowed under section 38 was the full amount of the investment credits determined as to A and B under section 46). Therefore, the amount of the unrecaptured credit as to A and B is $1,560 and $3,120, respectively (40% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively). The amounts that A and B previously included in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section are $300 ($100 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018) and $600 ($200 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018), respectively. A and B are required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to include in gross income an amount equal to the excess of the credit that is not recaptured ($1,560 and $3,120, respectively) over the total increases in gross income previously made under paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to the property ($300 and $600, respectively). Therefore, A and B must include in gross income $1,260 and $2,520, respectively, in the taxable year of the lease termination (2019) in addition to the recapture amounts described above.


(5) *Example 5.* (i) The facts are the same as in *Example 4* in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, except that instead of nonresidential real property, the AB partnership leases from Y solar energy equipment for which an energy credit under section 48 is determined under section 46. Because the shortest recovery period that could be available to the property under section 168 is 5 years, A and B are required under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to include ratably in gross income over 5 years an amount equal to 50% of the credit determined under section 46 with respect to such property (50% of $3,900/5, or $390, per year for A, and 50% of $7,800/5, or $780, per year for B).


(ii) The January 1, 2019 lease termination requires A's and B's income tax for 2019 to be increased under section 50(a) by $2,340 and $4,680, respectively (60% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively). Therefore, the amount of the unrecaptured credit as to A and B is $1,560 and $3,120, respectively (40% of $3,900 and $7,800, respectively). Under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the amounts A and B previously included in gross income are $1,170 ($390 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018) and $2,340 ($780 for each of 2016, 2017, and 2018), respectively. A and B are entitled to a reduction in gross income under paragraph (c)(2) of this section equal to the excess of the total increases in gross income made under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section ($1,170 and $2,340, respectively) over 50% of the amount of the credit that is not recaptured ($780 and $1,560, respectively). Therefore, A and B are entitled to a reduction in gross income in the amount of $390 and $780, respectively, in the taxable year of the lease termination (2019).


(6) *Example 6.* (i) The facts are the same as in *Example 3* in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, except that on December 1, 2021, A sells its entire interest to C, and on January 1, 2022, the lease between AB partnership and Y terminates. At the time of the lease termination, B is still a partner in the AB partnership. There is no recapture event under section 50(a) because both the lease termination and the disposition of A's interest in the partnership occurred outside of the recapture period.


(ii) At the time that A sold its interest in the AB partnership to C, A had previously included $500 ($100 for each of 2016-2020) in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, A must continue to include the remaining $3,400 (including $100 in 2021) in gross income ratably over the remaining portion of the applicable recovery period of 39 years. Alternatively, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, A may irrevocably elect to include the remaining $3,400 in gross income in the taxable year that A sold its entire interest in the AB partnership to C (2021). Pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, A cannot make this election in the taxable year of the lease termination (2022).


(iii) At the time of the lease termination, B had previously included $1,200 ($200 for each of 2016-2021) in gross income under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, B must continue to include the remaining $6,600 required in gross income ratably over the remaining portion of the applicable recovery period of 39 years. Alternatively, under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, B may irrevocably elect to include the remaining $6,600 in gross income in the taxable year of the lease termination (2022).


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to property placed in service on or after September 19, 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 9872, 84 FR 34780, July 19, 2019]






