# § 60.4245   What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements if I am an owner or operator of a stationary SI internal combustion engine?

Owners or operators of stationary SI ICE must meet the following notification, reporting and recordkeeping requirements.


(a) Owners and operators of all stationary SI ICE must keep records of the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) All notifications submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any notification.


(2) Maintenance conducted on the engine.


(3) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is a certified engine, documentation from the manufacturer that the engine is certified to meet the emission standards and information as required in 40 CFR parts 1048, 1054, and 1060, as applicable.


(4) If the stationary SI internal combustion engine is not a certified engine or is a certified engine operating in a non-certified manner and subject to § 60.4243(a)(2), documentation that the engine meets the emission standards.


(b) For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2010, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than or equal to 130 HP and less than 500 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2011 that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. For all stationary SI emergency ICE greater than 25 HP and less than 130 HP manufactured on or after July 1, 2008, that do not meet the standards applicable to non-emergency engines, the owner or operator of must keep records of the hours of operation of the engine that is recorded through the non-resettable hour meter. The owner or operator must document how many hours are spent for emergency operation, including what classified the operation as emergency and how many hours are spent for non-emergency operation.


(c) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE greater than or equal to 500 HP that have not been certified by an engine manufacturer to meet the emission standards in § 60.4231 must submit an initial notification as required in § 60.7(a)(1). The notification must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. Beginning on February 26, 2025 submit the notification electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.


(1) Name and address of the owner or operator;


(2) The address of the affected source;


(3) Engine information including make, model, engine family, serial number, model year, maximum engine power, and engine displacement;


(4) Emission control equipment; and


(5) Fuel used.


(d) Owners and operators of stationary SI ICE that are subject to performance testing must submit a copy of each performance test as conducted in § 60.4244 within 60 days after the test has been completed. Performance test reports using EPA Method 18, EPA Method 320, or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference—see 40 CFR 60.17) to measure VOC require reporting of all QA/QC data. For Method 18, report results from sections 8.4 and 11.1.1.4; for Method 320, report results from sections 8.6.2, 9.0, and 13.0; and for ASTM D6348-03 report results of all QA/QC procedures in Annexes 1-7. Beginning on February 26, 2025, performance tests must be reported electronically according to paragraph (f) of this section.


(e) If you own or operate an emergency stationary SI ICE with a maximum engine power more than 100 HP that operates for the purpose specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), you must submit an annual report according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The report must contain the following information:


(i) Company name and address where the engine is located.


(ii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(iii) Engine site rating and model year.


(iv) Latitude and longitude of the engine in decimal degrees reported to the fifth decimal place.


(v)-(vi) [Reserved]


(vii) Hours spent for operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i), including the date, start time, and end time for engine operation for the purposes specified in § 60.4243(d)(3)(i). The report must also identify the entity that dispatched the engine and the situation that necessitated the dispatch of the engine.


(2) The first annual report must cover the calendar year 2015 and must be submitted no later than March 31, 2016. Subsequent annual reports for each calendar year must be submitted no later than March 31 of the following calendar year.


(3) The annual report must be submitted electronically using the subpart specific reporting form in the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). However, if the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, the written report must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 60.4. Beginning on February 26, 2025, submit annual report electronically according to paragraph (g) of this section.


(f) Beginning on February 26, 2025, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, you must submit the results following the procedures specified in paragraph (g) of this section. Data collected using test methods that are supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.


(g) If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph (g), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (g).


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described in paragraph (g) of this section, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group; all other files should be flagged to the attention of the Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. ERT files should be sent to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, and all other files should be sent to the attention of the Stationary Spark Ignition Internal Combustion Engine Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.


(j) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.



---

[N] [73 FR 3591, Jan. 18, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59177, Oct. 8, 2008; 78 FR 6697, Jan. 30, 2013; 81 FR 59809, Aug. 30, 2016; 86 FR 34362, June 29, 2021; 87 FR 48606, Aug. 10, 2022; 89 FR 70514, Aug. 30, 2024]




