# § 1.1331-1   Recoveries in respect of war losses.

(a)(1) The amount of any recovery in respect of *war loss property* must be included in gross income to the extent provided in section 1332 unless, pursuant to the taxpayer's election under section 1335, the provisions of section 1333 are applicable to such recovery. For the treatment of war loss recoveries under section 1333 and the manner of making the election under section 1335, see §§ 1.1333-1 and 1.1335-1.


(2) As used in this part, the term *war loss property* means property considered under section 127(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 as *destroyed or seized,* including any interest described in section 127(a)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.


(3) For regulations governing the treatment of war losses under the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, see 26 CFR (1939) 29.127(a)-1 to 29.127(a)-4, inclusive, 29.127(b)-1, and 29.127(e)-1 (Regulations 111) and 26 CFR (1939) 39.127(a)-1 (Regulations 118).


(b) The recoveries in respect of any war loss property include the recovery of the same war loss property and the recovery of any money or property in lieu of such property or on account of the destruction or seizure of such property. For example, there is a recovery upon the return to the taxpayer after the termination of the war of his property which was treated as war loss property because it was located in a country at war with the United States. An award by a government on account of the seizure of the taxpayer's property by an enemy country is a recovery under this section. The amount obtained upon the sale or other transfer by the taxpayer of his right to any war loss property is also a recovery for the purpose of this section. Similarly, if a taxpayer who sustained a war loss upon the liquidation of a corporation has received the rights to any property of the corporation which was treated as war loss property, any recovery by the taxpayer with respect to such rights is a recovery by him for the purposes of this section.


(c) For the purpose of this section, the recoveries considered are only those with respect to war losses sustained in prior taxable years. Similarly, the only deductions considered are those allowable for prior taxable years, and any allowable deductions for the year of the recovery are ignored for the purposes of applying such section to the recovery.


(d) If a deduction was claimed under section 127(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 by a taxpayer in computing his tax for any taxable year and if such deduction was disallowed in whole or in part, any recovery in respect of the portion disallowed shall not be subject to the provisions of part IV (section 1331 and following), subchapter Q, chapter 1 of the Code.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12042, Nov. 26, 1960]




