# § 1023.100   Definitions.

Refer to § 1010.100 of this chapter for general definitions not noted herein. To the extent there is a differing definition in § 1010.100 of this chapter, the definition in this section is what applies to part 1023. Unless otherwise indicated, for purposes of this part:


(a) *Account.* For purposes of § 1023.220:


(1) Account means a formal relationship with a broker-dealer established to effect transactions in securities, including, but not limited to, the purchase or sale of securities and securities loaned and borrowed activity, and to hold securities or other assets for safekeeping or as collateral.


(2) *Account* does not include:


(i) An account that the broker-dealer acquires through any acquisition, merger, purchase of assets, or assumption of liabilities; or


(ii) An account opened for the purpose of participating in an employee benefit plan established under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.


(b) *Broker-dealer* means a person registered or required to be registered as a broker or dealer with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 77a *et seq.*), except persons who register pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11).


(c) *Commission* means, for the purposes of § 1023.220, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.


(d) *Customer.* For purposes of § 1023.220:


(1) *Customer* means:


(i) A person that opens a new account; and


(ii) An individual who opens a new account for:


(A) An individual who lacks legal capacity; or


(B) An entity that is not a legal person.


(2) *Customer* does not include:


(i) A financial institution regulated by a Federal functional regulator or a bank regulated by a state bank regulator;


(ii) A person described in § 1020.315(b)(2) through (4) of this Chapter; or


(iii) A person that has an existing account with the broker-dealer, provided the broker-dealer has a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of the person.


(e) *Financial institution* is defined at 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) and (c)(1).




