# § 63.1431   Process vent annual epoxides emission factor plan requirements.

(a) *Applicability of emission factor plan requirements.* An owner or operator electing to comply with an annual epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv) shall develop and implement an epoxides emission factor plan in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(b) *Emission factor plan requirements.* The owner or operator shall develop an epoxides emission factor plan.


(1) If epoxide emissions are maintained below the epoxide emission factor limitation through the use of a combustion, recovery, or recapture device (without extended cookout), the owner or operator shall develop and implement the plan in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) If epoxide emissions are maintained below the epoxide emission factor limitation through the use of extended cookout (without a combustion, recovery, or recapture device), the owner or operator shall develop and implement the plan in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(3) If epoxide emissions are maintained below the epoxide emission factor limitation through the use of extended cookout in conjunction with a combustion, recovery, or recapture device, the owner or operator shall develop and implement the plan in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.


(c) *Compliance with epoxide emission factor limitation using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device.* (1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to use a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to comply with the epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv). The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions and the actual production rate in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed in § 63.1439(e)(8).


(i) Annual uncontrolled epoxide emissions. These emission estimates shall be determined in accordance with the batch process vent group determination procedures in the NESHAP for Group I Polymers and Resins (40 CFR part 63, subpart U, § 63.488(b)) and shall be based on anticipated production.


(ii) A description of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device, along with the expected percent efficiency.


(iii) Annual emissions after the combustion, recovery, or recapture device. The expected annual emissions after control shall be determined using Equation 15.


(iv) The actual annual production rate means the annual mass of polyether polyol product produced from the applicable PMPU. This production rate shall be for the same annual time period as the annual emission estimate as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.


(2) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test in accordance with § 63.1426(c) to determine the epoxide control efficiency of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device. The owner or operator shall then recalculate the annual epoxide emissions after control using Equation 15, except that the control efficiency, R, shall be the measured control efficiency. This information shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, as provided in § 63.1439(e)(5).


(3) The owner or operator shall comply with the process vent monitoring provisions in § 63.1429.


(4) The owner or operator shall comply with the process vent recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs § 63.1430(b) through (d), and the process vent reporting requirements in § 63.1430(g)(1) and (h).


(d) *Compliance with epoxide emission factor limitation using extended cookout.* (1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to use extended cookout to comply with the epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv). The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions after the extended cookout. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed in § 63.1439(e)(8).


(2) The owner or operator shall determine the annual epoxide emissions in accordance with § 63.1427(d), based on anticipated production. This information shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, as provided in § 63.1439(e)(5).


(3) The owner or operator shall comply with the ECO monitoring provisions in § 63.1427(i).


(4) The owner or operator shall comply with the process vent recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.1430.


(e) *Compliance with the epoxide emission factor limitation through the use of extended cookout in conjunction with one or more combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device.* (1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to use extended cookout in conjunction with one or more combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device to comply with the annual epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv). The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions after control. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed under § 63.1439(e)(8).


(2) The owner or operator shall determine the annual epoxide emissions after control. This information shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, as provided in § 63.1439(e)(5).


(3) The owner or operator shall comply with the ECO monitoring provisions in § 63.1427(i).


(4) The owner or operator shall comply with the ECO recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.1427(j) and (k).


(f) *Compliance with epoxide emission factor limitation without using extended cookout or a combustion, recovery, or recapture device.* (1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to comply with the epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv) without the use of ECO or a combustion, recovery, or recapture device. The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed in § 63.1439(e)(8).


(2) Each year after the compliance date, the owner or operator shall calculate the epoxides emission factor for the previous year. This information shall be submitted in the second Periodic Report submitted each year, as specified in § 63.1439(e)(6).




