# § 170.105   The Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) determination that a premarket notification for a food contact substance (FCN) is no longer effective.

(a) FDA may determine that an FCN is no longer effective if:


(1) Data or other information available to FDA, including data not submitted by the manufacturer or supplier, demonstrate that the intended use of a food contact substance is no longer safe.


(i) FDA will inform the affected manufacturer or supplier specified in the FCN, in writing, of FDA's concerns regarding the safety of the intended use of the food contact substance. FDA will specify the date by which the manufacturer or supplier must provide FDA with data or other information to respond to FDA's safety concerns.


(ii) If the manufacturer or supplier fails, by the specified date, to supply either the data or other information necessary to address the safety concerns regarding the notified use or a request described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective because there is no longer a basis to conclude that the intended use is safe.


(iii) If FDA denies a request described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, and FDA had previously informed the manufacturer or supplier of FDA's concerns regarding the safety of the intended use of the food contact substance as described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, FDA may determine that an FCN is no longer effective because there is no longer a basis to conclude that the intended use is safe. Alternatively, FDA may provide the manufacturer or supplier with additional time to provide FDA with data or other information to respond to FDA's safety concerns. If the manufacturer or supplier fails, by the specified date, to supply the data or other information necessary to address the safety concerns regarding the notified use, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective because there is no longer a basis to conclude that the intended use is safe.


(2) Data or other information available to FDA demonstrate that the manufacturer or supplier specified in the FCN has ceased or intends to cease producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended use. Such data or other information includes, but is not limited to:


(i) A request from the manufacturer or supplier.


(A) The manufacturer or supplier specified in the FCN may request in writing that FDA determine that an FCN is no longer effective on the basis that it has ceased producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States or that it intends to cease producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States by a specified date. The request must include information or a basis to support the estimated date for the food contact substance, as well as food contact articles that contain such food contact substance, produced, supplied, or used by the manufacturer or supplier to clear the U.S. market. FDA will notify the manufacturer or supplier whether FDA is granting the request.


(B) If FDA grants the request, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective on the basis that the manufacturer or supplier has ceased producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended use in the United States or that it intends to cease producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States by a specified date. When such a request is based on the intent to cease producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States at a future date, FDA will include in the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section the date specified in the request as the compliance date by which the manufacturer or supplier will cease producing, supplying, or using the food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States.


(ii) Other data or information available to FDA.


(A) If other data or information available to FDA demonstrate that a manufacturer or supplier specified in the FCN has ceased producing, supplying, or using a food contact substance for the intended use in the United States, FDA will inform the affected manufacturer or supplier in writing. FDA will include a specified time period by which the manufacturer or supplier must respond in writing indicating whether the manufacturer or supplier continues, or intends to continue in the future, to produce, supply, or use a food contact substance for the intended use in the United States.


(B) If the manufacturer or supplier fails, by the specified date, to respond in writing indicating that the manufacturer or supplier continues, or intends to continue in the future, to produce, supply, or use a food contact substance for the intended use in the United States; or if the manufacturer or supplier confirms that it has ceased producing, supplying, or using the food contact substance for the intended food contact use in the United States, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective.


(3) The intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is authorized by a food additive regulation.


(i) FDA will inform the manufacturer or supplier specified in the FCN in writing that the intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is authorized by a food additive regulation. FDA will include a specified time period by which the manufacturer or supplier must respond to FDA with data or other information about whether the food contact substance and its intended use meet the identity limitations and specifications authorized by the cited food additive regulation.


(ii) If a manufacturer or supplier fails, by the specified date, to supply data or other information that demonstrates that the intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is not authorized by a food additive regulation, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective on the basis that the intended use of the food contact substance is authorized under a food additive regulation.


(4) The intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is the subject of an issued threshold of regulation exemption.


(i) FDA will inform the manufacturer or supplier specified in the authorizing FCN in writing that the intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is the subject of an issued threshold of regulation exemption. FDA will include a specified time period by which the manufacturer or supplier must respond to FDA with data or other information about whether the food contact substance and its intended use meet the identity limitations and specifications listed in the cited threshold of regulation exemption.


(ii) If a manufacturer or supplier fails, by the specified date, to supply data or other information that demonstrates that the intended use of the food contact substance identified in the FCN is not exempt through an issued threshold of regulation exemption, FDA may determine that the FCN is no longer effective on the basis that the intended use of the food contact substance is the subject of an issued threshold of regulation exemption.


(b) If FDA determines that an FCN is no longer effective, FDA will publish a notice of its determination in the _Federal Register,_ stating that a detailed summary of the basis for FDA's determination that the FCN is no longer effective has been placed on public display and that copies are available upon request. If FDA determines it would be protective of public health, FDA may include a separate compliance date for the use of the food contact substance in food contact articles, including food contact substances that were produced, supplied, or used by the manufacturer or supplier before publication of the notice in the _Federal Register_ or before the compliance date described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section. The date that the notice publishes in the _Federal Register_ is the date on which the notification is no longer effective. FDA's determination that an FCN is no longer effective is final Agency action subject to judicial review.


(c) FDA's determination that an FCN is no longer effective does not preclude any manufacturer or supplier from submitting a new FCN for the same food contact substance, including for the same intended use, after FDA has determined that an FCN is no longer effective, unless the intended use of the food contact substance is authorized by a food additive regulation or the subject of an issued threshold of regulation exemption. The new submission must be made under §§ 170.100 and 170.101.



---

[N] [89 FR 20316, Mar. 22, 2024]




