# § 184.1221   Calcium propionate.

(a) Calcium propionate (C_6_H_10_CaO_4_, CAS Reg. No. 4075-81-4) is the calcium salt of propionic acid. It occurs as white crystals or a crystalline solid, possessing not more than a faint odor of propionic acid. It is prepared by neutralizing propionic acid with calcium hydroxide.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 60, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an antimicrobial agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(2) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in the following foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice: baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; cheeses as defined in § 170.3(n)(5) of this chapter; confections and frostings as defined in § 170.3(n)(9) of this chapter; gelatins, puddings, and fillings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; and jams and jellies as defined in § 170.3(n)(28) of this chapter.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [49 FR 13141, Apr. 3, 1984]




