# § 456.702   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart—


*Abuse* is defined as in § 455.2 of this chapter.


*Adverse medical result* means a clinically significant undesirable effect, experienced by a patient, due to a course of drug therapy.


*Appropriate and medically necessary* means drug prescribing and dispensing that is in conformity with the predetermined standards established in accordance with § 456.703.


*Criteria* is defined as in § 466.1 of this chapter.


*Fraud* is defined as in § 455.2 of this chapter.


*Gross overuse* means repetitive overutilization without therapeutic benefit.


*Inappropriate and medically unnecessary* means drug prescribing and dispensing not in conformity with the definition of *appropriate and medically necessary.*

*Overutilization* means use of a drug in a quantity, strength, or duration that is greater than necessary to achieve a desired therapeutic goal or that puts the beneficiary at risk of a clinically significant undesirable effect, or both. 


*Predetermined standards* means criteria and standards that have been established in accordance with the requirements of § 456.703.


*Standards* is defined as in § 466.1 of this chapter.


*Underutilization* means use of a drug by a beneficiary in insufficient quantity, strength, or duration to achieve a desired therapeutic goal or that puts the beneficiary at risk of a clinically significant undesired effect, or both. 



---

[N] [57 FR 49408, Nov. 2, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 48824, Sept. 23, 1994]




