# § 51.1011   Attainment demonstration and modeling requirements.

(a) *Nonattainment areas initially classified as Moderate.* The attainment demonstration due to the EPA as part of any Moderate area attainment plan required under § 51.1003(a) shall meet all of the following criteria:


(1) The attainment demonstration shall show the projected attainment date for the Moderate nonattainment area that is as expeditious as practicable in accordance with the requirements of § 51.1004(a)(1).


(2) The attainment demonstration shall meet the requirements of Appendix W of this part and shall include inventory data, modeling results, and emission reduction analyses on which the state has based its projected attainment date.


(3) The base year for the emissions inventory required for an attainment demonstration under this paragraph shall be one of the 3 years used for designations or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.


(4) The control strategies modeled as part of the attainment demonstration shall be consistent with the following as applicable:


(i) For a Moderate area that can demonstrate attainment of the applicable PM_2.5_ NAAQS no later than the end of the sixth calendar year following the date of designation of the area with the implementation of RACM and RACT and additional reasonable measures, the control strategies modeled as part of the attainment demonstration shall be consistent with control strategy requirements under § 51.1009(a).


(ii) For a Moderate area that cannot practicably attain the applicable PM_2.5_ NAAQS by the end of the sixth calendar year following the date of designation of the area with the implementation of RACM and RACT and additional reasonable measures, the control strategies modeled as part of the attainment demonstration shall be consistent with control strategy requirements under § 51.1009(b).


(5) Required time frame for obtaining emissions reductions. For each Moderate nonattainment area, the attainment plan must provide for implementation of all control measures needed for attainment as expeditiously as practicable. All control measures in the attainment demonstration must be implemented no later than the beginning of the year containing the applicable attainment date, notwithstanding RACM implementation deadline requirements in § 51.1009.


(b) *Nonattainment areas reclassified as Serious.* The attainment demonstration due to the EPA as part of a Serious area attainment plan required under § 51.1003(b) or (c) shall meet all of the following criteria:


(1) The attainment demonstration shall show the projected attainment date for the Serious nonattainment area that is as expeditious as practicable.


(2) The attainment demonstration shall meet the requirements of Appendix W of this part and shall include inventory data, modeling results, and emission reduction analyses on which the state has based its projected attainment date.


(3) The base year for the emissions inventories required for attainment demonstrations under this paragraph shall be one of the 3 years used for designations or another technically appropriate inventory year if justified by the state in the plan submission.


(4) The control strategies modeled as part of a Serious area attainment demonstration shall be consistent with the control strategies required pursuant to § 51.1003 and § 51.1010.


(5) Required timeframe for obtaining emissions reductions. For each Serious nonattainment area, the attainment plan must provide for implementation of all control measures needed for attainment as expeditiously as practicable. All control measures must be implemented no later than the beginning of the year containing the applicable attainment date, notwithstanding BACM implementation deadline requirements in § 51.1010.




