# § 211.1   General.

(a) This part prescribes rules of practice that apply to rulemaking and waiver proceedings, review of emergency orders issued under 45 U.S.C. 432, and miscellaneous safety-related proceedings and informal safety inquiries. The specific time limits for disposition of proceedings apply only to proceedings initiated after December 31, 1976, under the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 421 *et seq.*). When warranted, FRA will extend these time limits in individual proceedings. However, each proceeding under the Federal Railroad Safety Act shall be disposed of within 12 months after the date it is initiated. A proceeding shall be deemed to be initiated and the time period for its disposition shall begin on the date a petition or application that complies with the requirements of this chapter is received by the person designated in § 211.7.


(b) As used in this part—


(1) *Administrator* means the Federal Railroad Administrator or the Deputy Administrator or the delegate of either of them.


(2) *Waiver* includes exemption.


(3) *Safety Act* means the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970, as amended (45 U.S.C. 421 *et seq.*).


(4) *Docket Clerk* means the Docket Clerk, Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Mail Stop 10, Washington, DC 20590 or the Docket Clerk, U.S. Department of Transportation, Docket Operations (M-30), West Building Ground Floor, Room W12-140, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20590-0001.


(5) *Railroad Safety Board* means the Railroad Safety Board, Office of Safety, Federal Railroad Administration, Washington, DC 20590.


(c) Records relating to proceedings and inquiries subject to this part are available for inspection as provided in part 7 of this title.



---

[N] [41 FR 54181, Dec. 13, 1976, as amended at 64 FR 70195, Dec. 16, 1999; 74 FR 25171, May 27, 2009]




