# § 1778.14   Other considerations.

(a) *Civil rights compliance requirements.* All grants made under this part are subject to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.*) as outlined in subpart E of part 1901 of this title. 


(b) *Environmental requirements.* All projects must have appropriate environmental reviews in accordance with RUS requirements. 


(c) *Uniform Relocation and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).* All projects must comply with the requirements set forth in 7 CFR part 21. 


(d) *Flood and mudslide hazard area precautions.* If the project is located in a flood or mudslide area, then flood or mudslide insurance must be provided as required in subpart A of part 1806 of this title (RD Instruction 426.2). 


(e) *Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement).* All projects must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 180, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 417, Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension, implementing Executive Order 12549 on debarment and suspension.


(f) *Intergovernmental review.* All projects funded under this part are subject to Executive Order 12372 (3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 197), which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. These requirements are found at 2 CFR part 415, subpart C, “Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities” and RD Instruction 1970-I, `Intergovernmental Review,' available in any Agency office or on the Agency's Web site.


(g) *Uniform administrative requirements.* All projects funded under this part are subject to 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, and 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Requirements.


(h) *Restrictions on lobbying.* All projects funded under this part are subject to 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.


(i) *Requirements for drug-free workplace.* This program is subject to 2 CFR part 421, Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance).



---

[N] [68 FR 46078, Aug. 5, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 80730, Dec. 27, 2011; 79 FR 76006, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 7697, Feb. 16, 2016]




