# ยง 253.31   Harvesting rights loans.

(a) *Specific definitions.* For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:


(1) *Harvesting right(s*) means any privilege to harvest fish in a fishery that is federally managed under a limited access system.


(2) *Limited access system* has the same meaning given to that term in section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802).


(b) *Loan requirements and limitations.* These loan requirements and limitations apply to individuals or entities who seek to finance or refinance the acquisition of harvesting rights.


(1) The borrower must meet all regulatory and statutory requirements to hold the harvesting rights at the time any such loan or refinancing loan would close.


(2) NMFS will accept and consider the input of a Regional Fishery Management Council at any time regarding the availability of loans in a fishery under the Council's authority.


(i) The Council may submit an explanation to NMFS, in writing, as to why the availability of financing for harvesting rights in a fishery would harm the achievement of the goals and objectives of the Fishery Management Plan applicable to the fishery. If NMFS accepts the Council's reasoning, harvesting rights loans will not be provided, or will cease to be provided, in that fishery.


(ii) If NMFS determines that harvesting rights loans will not be provided in a fishery, NMFS will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ notifying the public that new loans will not be made in that fishery.


(iii) In such a scenario, pending applications will be returned and loan fees returned as exceptional circumstances justify the action.


(3) The harvesting rights to be financed must be issued in a manner in which they can be individually identified such that a valid and specific security interest can be recorded. This determination shall be solely made by the Program.


(c) *Refinancing.* (1) The Program may refinance any existing debts associated with harvesting rights a borrower currently holds, provided that:


(i) The harvesting rights being refinanced would have been eligible for Program financing at the time the borrower purchased them, if Program financing had been available;


(ii) The borrower meets all other applicable lending requirements; and


(iii) The refinancing is in an amount up to 80 percent of the harvesting rights' current market value, as determined at the sole discretion of the Program, and subject to the limitation that the Program will not disburse any amount that exceeds the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest (if any), of the existing harvesting rights' debt being refinanced or its fair market value, whichever is less.


(2) In the event that the current market value of harvesting rights and principal loan balance do not meet the 80 percent requirement in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, borrowers seeking refinancing may be required to provide additional down payment.


(d) *Maturity.* Loan maturity may not exceed 25 years, but may be shorter depending on credit and other considerations.


(e) *Repayment.* Repayment will be by equal quarterly installments of principal and interest.


(f) *Security.* Although harvesting right(s) will be the primary collateral for a loan, the Program may require additional security pledges to maintain the priority of the Program's security interest. The Program, at its option, may also require all parties with significant ownership interests to personally guarantee loan repayment for any borrower that is a corporation, partnership, or other entity, including collateral to secure the guarantees. Some projects may require additional security, collateral, or credit enhancement as determined, in the sole discretion, by the Program.


(g) *Program credit standards.* Harvesting rights loans, regardless of purpose, are subject to all Program general credit standards and requirements. Collateral, guarantee and other requirements may be adjusted to individual credit risks.



---

[N] [83 FR 24232, May 25, 2018]




