# § 63.1505   Emission standards for affected sources and emission units.

(a) *Summary*. The owner or operator of a new or existing affected source must comply at all times with each applicable limit in this section, including periods of startup and shutdown. Table 1 to this subpart summarizes the emission standards for each type of source.


(b) *Aluminum scrap shredder.* On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501, the owner or operator of an aluminum scrap shredder at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere:


(1) Emissions in excess of 0.023 grams (g) of PM per dry standard cubic meter (dscm) (0.010 grain (gr) of PM per dry standard cubic foot (dscf)); and 


(2) Visible emissions (VE) in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a continuous opacity monitor (COM) or visible emissions monitoring is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(c) *Thermal chip dryer.* On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501, the owner or operator of a thermal chip dryer must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere emissions in excess of: 


(1) 0.40 kilogram (kg) of THC, as propane, per megagram (Mg) (0.80 lb of THC, as propane, per ton) of feed/charge from a thermal chip dryer at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; and 


(2) 2.50 micrograms (µg) of D/F TEQ per Mg (3.5 × 10_−5_ gr per ton) of feed/charge from a thermal chip dryer at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source. 


(d) *Scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln.* On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501:


(1) The owner or operator of a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere emissions in excess of: 


(i) 0.03 kg of THC, as propane, per Mg (0.06 lb of THC, as propane, per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(ii) 0.04 kg of PM per Mg (0.08 lb per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(iii) 0.25 µg of D/F TEQ per Mg (3.5 × 10_−6_ gr of D/F TEQ per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source; and 


(iv) 0.40 kg of HCl per Mg (0.80 lb per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source. 


(2) The owner or operator of a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(e) *Scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln: alternative limits.* The owner or operator of a scrap dryer/ delacquering kiln/decoating kiln may choose to comply with the emission limits in this paragraph (e) as an alternative to the limits in paragraph (d) of this section if the scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln is equipped with an afterburner having a design residence time of at least 1 second and the afterburner is operated at a temperature of at least 760 °C (1400 °F) at all times. On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501: 


(1) The owner or operator of a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere emissions in excess of: 


(i) 0.10 kg of THC, as propane, per Mg (0.20 lb of THC, as propane, per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(ii) 0.15 kg of PM per Mg (0.30 lb per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(iii) 5.0 µg of D/F TEQ per Mg (7.0 × 10_−5_ gr of D/F TEQ per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source; and 


(iv) 0.75 kg of HCl per Mg (1.50 lb per ton) of feed/charge from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source. 


(2) The owner or operator of a scrap dryer/ delacquering kiln/decoating kiln at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(f) *Sweat furnace.* The owner or operator of a sweat furnace shall comply with the emission standard of paragraph (f)(2) of this section. 


(1) The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, provided that, on and after the compliance date of this rule, the owner or operator operates and maintains an afterburner with a design residence time of 0.8 seconds or greater and an operating temperature of 1600 °F or greater.


(2) On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501, the owner or operator of a sweat furnace at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere emissions in excess of 0.80 nanogram (ng) of D/F TEQ per dscm (3.5 × 10_−10_ gr per dscf) at 11 percent oxygen (O
2).


(g) *Dross-only furnace.* On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501, the owner or operator of a dross-only furnace at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere:


(1) Emissions in excess of 0.15 kg of PM per Mg (0.30 lb of PM per ton) of feed/charge. 


(2) Visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(h) *Rotary dross cooler.* On and after the compliance date established by § 63.1501, the owner or operator of a rotary dross cooler at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere: 


(1) Emissions in excess of 0.09 g of PM per dscm (0.04 gr per dscf). 


(2) Visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(i) *Group 1 furnace.* The owner or operator of a group 1 furnace must use the limits in this paragraph to determine the emission standards for a SAPU. 


(1) 0.20 kg of PM per Mg (0.40 lb of PM per ton) of feed/charge from a group 1 furnace, that is not a melting/holding furnace processing only clean charge, at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(2) 0.40 kg of PM per Mg (0.80 lb of PM per ton) of feed/charge from a group 1 melting/holding furnace processing only clean charge at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source; 


(3) 15 µg of D/F TEQ per Mg (2.1 × 10_−4_ gr of D/F TEQ per ton) of feed/charge from a group 1 furnace at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source. This limit does not apply if the furnace processes only clean charge; and 


(4) 0.20 kg of HF per Mg (0.40 lb of HF per ton) of feed/charge from an uncontrolled group 1 furnace and 0.20 kg of HCl per Mg (0.40 lb of HCl per ton) of feed/charge or, if the furnace is equipped with an add-on air pollution control device, 10 percent of the uncontrolled HCl emissions, by weight, for a group 1 furnace at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source.


(5) The owner or operator of a group 1 furnace at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(6) The owner or operator may determine the emission standards for a SAPU by applying the group 1 furnace limits on the basis of the aluminum production weight in each group 1 furnace, rather than on the basis of feed/charge. 


(7) The owner or operator of a sidewell group 1 furnace that conducts reactive fluxing (except for cover flux) in the hearth, or that conducts reactive fluxing in the sidewell at times when the level of molten metal falls below the top of the passage between the sidewell and the hearth, must comply with the emission limits of paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section on the basis of the combined emissions from the sidewell and the hearth.


(j) *In-line fluxer.* Except as provided in paragraph (j)(3) of this section for an in-line fluxer using no reactive flux material, the owner or operator of an in-line fluxer must use the limits in this paragraph to determine the emission standards for a SAPU. 


(1) 0.02 kg of HCl per Mg (0.04 lb of HCl per ton) of feed/charge; 


(2) 0.005 kg of PM per Mg (0.01 lb of PM per ton) of feed/charge. 


(3) The emission limits in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section do not apply to an in-line fluxer that uses no reactive flux materials. 


(4) The owner or operator of an in-line fluxer at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source must not discharge or cause to be discharged to the atmosphere visible emissions in excess of 10 percent opacity from any PM add-on air pollution control device used to control emissions from the in-line fluxer, if a COM is chosen as the monitoring option. 


(5) The owner or operator may determine the emission standards for a SAPU by applying the in-line fluxer limits on the basis of the aluminum production weight in each in-line fluxer, rather than on the basis of feed/charge. 


(k) *Secondary aluminum processing unit*. The owner or operator must comply with the emission limits calculated using the equations for PM, HCl and HF in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section for each secondary aluminum processing unit at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source. The owner or operator must comply with the emission limit calculated using the equation for D/F in paragraph (k)(3) of this section for each secondary aluminum processing unit at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source.


(1) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of PM in excess of:


(2) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of HCl or HF in excess of:


(3) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of D/F in excess of:


(4) The owner or operator of a SAPU at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section by demonstrating that each emission unit within the SAPU is in compliance with the applicable emission limits of paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section. 


(5) The owner or operator of a SAPU at a secondary aluminum production facility that is an area source may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of paragraph (k)(3) of this section by demonstrating that each emission unit within the SAPU is in compliance with the emission limit of paragraph (i)(3) of this section. 


(6) With the prior approval of the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, an owner or operator may redesignate any existing group 1 furnace or in-line fluxer at a secondary aluminum production facility as a new emission unit. Any emission unit so redesignated may thereafter be included in a new SAPU at that facility. Any such redesignation will be solely for the purpose of this NESHAP and will be irreversible.



---

[N] [65 FR 15710, Mar. 23, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 59792, Sept. 24, 2002; 67 FR 79816, Dec. 30, 2002; 70 FR 57517, Oct. 3, 2005; 80 FR 56739, Sept. 18, 2015]




