# § 411.162   Medicare benefits secondary to group health plan benefits.

(a) *General provisions*—(1) *Basic rule.* Except as provided in § 411.163 (with respect to certain individuals who are also entitled on the basis of age or disability), Medicare is secondary to any GHP (including a retirement plan), with respect to benefits that are payable to an individual who is entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD, for services furnished during any coordination period determined in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (No Medicare benefits are payable on behalf of an individual who is eligible but not yet entitled.) 


(2) *Medicare benefits secondary without regard to size of employer and beneficiary's employment status.* The size of employer and employment status requirements of the MSP provisions for the aged and disabled do not apply with respect to ESRD beneficiaries. 


(3) *COBRA continuation coverage.* Medicare is secondary payer for benefits that a GHP—


(i) Is required to keep in effect under COBRA continuation requirements (as explained in the footnote to § 411.161(a)(3)), even after the individual becomes entitled to Medicare; or 


(ii) Voluntarily keeps in effect after the individual becomes entitled to Medicare on the basis of ESRD, even though not obligated to do so under the COBRA provisions. 


(4) *Medicare payments during the coordination period.* During the coordination period, CMS makes Medicare payments as follows: 


(i) Primary payments only for Medicare covered services that are— 


(A) Furnished to Medicare beneficiaries who have declined to enroll in the GHP; 


(B) Not covered under the plan; 
1

(C) Covered under the plan but not available to particular enrollees because they have exhausted their benefits; or 


(D) Furnished to individuals whose COBRA continuation coverage has been terminated because of the individual's Medicare entitlement. 


(ii) Secondary payments, within the limits specified in §§ 411.32 and 411.33, to supplement the amount paid by the GHP if that plan pays only a portion of the charge for the services. 


(b) *Beginning of coordination period.* (1) For individuals who start a course of maintenance dialysis or who receive a kidney transplant before December 1989, the coordination period begins with the earlier of—


(i) The month in which the individual initiated a regular course of renal dialysis; or


(ii) In the case of an individual who received a kidney transplant, the first month in which the individual became entitled to Medicare, or, if earlier, the first month for which the individual would have been entitled to Medicare benefits if he or she had filed an application for such benefits.


(2) For individuals other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the coordination period begins with the earlier of—


(i) The first month in which the individual becomes entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD; or


(ii) The first month the individual would have become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD if he or she had filed an application for such benefits.


(c) *End of coordination period.* (1) For individuals who start a regular course of renal dialysis or who receive a kidney transplant before December 1989, the coordination period ends with the earlier of the end of the 12th month of dialysis or the end of the 12th month of a transplant. The 12th month of dialysis may be any time from the 9th month through the 12th month of Medicare entitlement, depending on the extent to which the individual was subject to a waiting period before becoming entitled to Medicare.


(2) The coordination period for the following individuals ends with the earlier of the 12th month of eligibility or the 12th month of entitlement to Medicare part A:


(i) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who became entitled to Medicare part A solely on the basis of ESRD during December 1989 and January 1990.


(ii) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who could have become entitled to Medicare Part A solely on the basis of ESRD during December 1989 and January 1990 if they had filed an application.


(iii) Individuals who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD after September 1997.


(iv) Individuals who can become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD after September 1997.


(3) The coordination period for the following individuals ends with the earlier of the end of the 18th month of eligibility or the 18th month of entitlement to Medicare part A: 


(i) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from February 1990 through April 1997.


(ii) Individuals, other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, who could become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from February 1990 through April 1997 if they would file an application.


(4) The coordination periods for the following individuals ends September 30, 1998:


(i) Individuals who become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from May 1997, through September 1997.


(ii) Individuals who could become entitled to Medicare part A on the basis of ESRD from May 1997, through September 1997, if they would file an application.


(d) *Examples.* Based on the rules specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and the rules specified in § 406.13 of this subchapter, the following examples illustrate how to determine, in different situations, the number of months during which Medicare is secondary payer.


(1) An individual began dialysis on November 4, 1989. He did not initiate a course in self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on February 1, 1990. Since this individual began dialysis before December 1989, the 12-month period began with the first month of dialysis, November 1989, and ended October 31, 1990. The coordination period in this case is 9 months, February 1990 through October 1990.


(2) An individual began dialysis on January 29, 1990. He did not initiate a course in self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on April 1, 1990. Since the individual began dialysis after November 1989, and became entitled to Medicare after January 1990, the coordination period began with the first month of entitlement, April 1990, and ended September 30, 1991, the end of the 18th month of entitlement.


(3) An individual began a regular course of maintenance dialysis on February 10, 1990. He did not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare on May 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from May 1, 1990 through October 1991, a total of 18 months.


(4) The same facts exist as in the example under paragraph (d)(3), except that the individual began a course of self-dialysis training during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, the effective date of his Medicare entitlement is February 1, 1990, and Medicare is secondary payer from February 1, 1990 through July 1991, a total of 18 months.


(5) An individual began dialysis on September 15, 1990. He did not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor did he receive a kidney transplant during the first 3 calendar months of dialysis. Thus, he became entitled to Medicare effective December 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from December 1, 1990 through May 1992, a total of 18 months.


(6) An individual began dialysis on November 17, 1990. He initiates a course of self-dialysis training in January 1991, and thus becomes entitled to Medicare effective November 1, 1990. Medicare is secondary payer from November 1, 1990, through April 1992, a total of 18 months.


(7) An individual began a regular course of dialysis on December 10, 1990. He does not initiate a course of self-dialysis training nor does he receive a kidney transplant. He decides to delay his enrollment in Medicare because his employer group health plan pays charges in full and he does not wish to incur part B premiums at this time. However, in March 1992, he files for part A and part B Medicare entitlement, and stipulates that he wants his Medicare entitlement to be effective March 1, 1992 (one year later than he could have become entitled). Since this individual could have been entitled to Medicare as early as March 1, 1991, Medicare is secondary payer only from March 1, 1992, through August 1992, a period of 6 months.


(8) The same facts exist as in the example under paragraph (d)(7) of this section, except that the individual defers Medicare entitlement beyond August 1992. (For purposes of this example, Medicare entitlement is not retroactive, but rather takes effect after August 1992.) There would be no period during which Medicare is secondary payer in this situation. This is because Medicare entitlement does not begin until after the 18-month period expires as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. Medicare would become primary payer as of the effective date of Medicare entitlement. The employer plan is required to pay primary from December 1, 1990, through August 1992, a total of 21 months.


(9) An individual becomes entitled to Medicare on December 1, 1997. The employer plan is primary payer, and Medicare is secondary payer, from December 1, 1997, through November 30, 1998, a period of 12 months. Medicare becomes primary payer on December 1, 1998, because the extension of the coordination period from 12 to 18 months applies only to items and services furnished before October 1, 1998.


(10) An individual becomes entitled to Medicare on August 1, 1997. Medicare is secondary payer from August 1, 1997, through September 30, 1998, a period of 14 months. Medicare becomes primary payer on October 1, 1998, because the coordination period has expired.


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *Determinations for subsequent periods of ESRD eligibility.* If an individual has more than one period of eligibility based on ESRD, a coordination period will be determined for each period of eligibility in accordance with this section.



---

[N] [57 FR 36015, Aug. 12, 1992; 57 FR 45113, Sept. 30, 1992. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 45362, 45368, Aug. 31, 1995]




