# § 21.7153   Progress and conduct.

(a) *Satisfactory pursuit of program.* In order to receive educational assistance for pursuit of a program of education, an individual must maintain satisfactory progress. VA will discontinue educational assistance if the individual does not maintain satisfactory progress. Progress is unsatisfactory if the individual does not satisfactorily progress according to the regularly prescribed standards of the educational institution he or she is attending.


(b) *Satisfactory conduct.* In order to receive educational assistance for pursuit of a program of education, an individual must maintain satisfactory conduct according to the regularly prescribed standards and practices of the educational institution in which he or she is enrolled. If the individual will be no longer retained as a student or will not be readmitted as a student by the educational institution in which he or she is enrolled, VA will discontinue educational assistance, unless further development establishes that the educational institution's action is retaliatory.


(c) *Satisfactory attendance.* In order to receive educational assistance for pursuit of a program of education, an individual must maintain satisfactory attendance. VA will discontinue educational assistance if the individual does not maintain satisfactory attendance. Attendance is unsatisfactory if the individual does not attend according to the regularly prescribed standards of the educational institution in which he or she is enrolled.


(d) *Reentrance after discontinuance.* (1) An individual may be reentered following discontinuance because of unsatisfactory attendance, conduct or progress when either of the following sets of conditions exists:


(i) The individual resumes enrollment at the same educational institution in the same program of education and the educational institution has both approved the individual's reenrollment and certified it to VA; or


(ii) VA determines that—


(A) The cause of the unsatisfactory attendance, conduct or progress has been removed, and 


(B) The program which the individual now proposes to pursue is suitable to his or her aptitudes, interests and abilities.


(2) Reentrance may be for the same program, for a revised program, or for an entirely different program depending on the cause of the discontinuance and the removal of that cause.



---

[N] [53 FR 1757, Jan. 22, 1988, as amended at 57 FR 15025, Apr. 24, 1992]




