# ยง 19.673   Small plant permit applications.

(a) *General.* Any person wishing to establish a small plant must file form TTB F 5110.74, Application and Permit for an Alcohol Fuel Producer Under 26 U.S.C. 5181, with the appropriate TTB officer. Except as otherwise provided in ยง 19.674(d), a person may not commence operations before issuance of the permit.


(b) *Application information.* The applicant for a small plant permit must include the following information with the application:


(1) Name and mailing address of the applicant, and the location of the plant if not the same as the mailing address;


(2) A diagram of the plant premises;


(3) A statement regarding ownership of the premises. If the premises are not owned by the applicant, the owner's consent for access by TTB officers must be furnished;


(4) A description of the stills on the premises and a statement of the maximum capacity of each;


(5) A description of the materials from which spirits will be produced; and


(6) A description of the security measures to be used to protect the premises, buildings, and equipment where spirits are produced, processed, and stored.


(c) *Information already on file.* If any of the information required by this section is already on file with TTB and the information is accurate and complete, the applicant may advise the appropriate TTB officer that the information on file is incorporated by reference and made part of the application, unless the applicant will not conduct bona fide production operations.


(d) *Additional information.* When required by the appropriate TTB officer, the applicant must furnish, as part of the application for a permit under this section, any additional information required by TTB to determine whether the application should be approved.


(e) *Bonds.* The applicant is not required to provide a bond in order to establish a small plant, unless the applicant will not conduct bona fide production operations. Plants for the receipt of spirits without production must furnish a bond in accordance with ยง 19.699 with a penal sum as prescribed in ยง 19.700. The appropriate TTB officer must approve the bond before issuance of the permit.


