# § 721.11488   1,3-Propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-, polymer with oxirane, 4-(dimethylamino)benzoate.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as 1,3-propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)-, polymer with oxirane, 4-(dimethylamino)benzoate (PMN P-19-55, CAS No. 2067275-86-7) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) if this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k)(photo initiator within UV curable coating/ink formulations). It is a significant new use to manufacture, process, or use the PMN substance in any manner that results in inhalation exposure.


(ii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4) where N = 12.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (c), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain modification requirements.* The provisions of § 1721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 57973, Sept. 17, 2020]




