# § 107.1810   Events of default and SBA's remedies for Licensee's noncompliance with terms of Debentures.

(a) *Applicability of this section.* This § 107.1810 applies to Debentures issued after April 25, 1994. By issuing such Debentures, you automatically agree to the terms, conditions and remedies in this section, as in effect at the time of issuance and as if fully set forth in the Debentures. Debentures issued before April 25, 1994 continue to be governed by the remedies in effect at the time of their issuance. 


(b) *Automatic events of default.* The occurrence of one or more of the events in this paragraph (b) causes the remedies in paragraph (c) of this section to take effect immediately. 


(1) *Insolvency.* You become equitably or legally insolvent. 


(2) *Voluntary assignment.* You make a voluntary assignment for the benefit of creditors without SBA's prior written approval. 


(3) *Bankruptcy.* You file a petition to begin any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding, receivership, dissolution or other similar creditors' rights proceeding, or such action is initiated against you and is not dismissed within 60 days. 


(c) *SBA remedies for automatic events of default.* Upon the occurrence of one or more of the events in paragraph (b) of this section: 


(1) Without notice, presentation or demand, the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest, and any other amounts owed SBA with respect to your Debentures, is immediately due and payable; and 


(2) You automatically consent to the appointment of SBA or its designee as your receiver under section 311(c) of the Act. 


(d) *Events of default with notice.* For any occurrence (as determined by SBA) of one or more of the events in this paragraph (d), SBA may avail itself of one or more of the remedies in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(1) *Fraud.* You commit a fraudulent act which causes detriment to SBA's position as a creditor or guarantor. 


(2) *Fraudulent transfers.* You make any transfer or incur any obligation that is fraudulent under the terms of 11 U.S.C. 548. 


(3) *Willful conflicts of interest.* You willfully violate § 107.730. 


(4) *Willful non-compliance.* You willfully violate one or more of the substantive provisions of the Act, specifically including but not limited to the provisions summarized in section 310(c) of the Act, or any substantive regulation promulgated under the Act. 


(5) *Repeated Events of Default.* At any time after being notified by SBA of the occurrence of an event of default under paragraph (f) of this section, you engage in similar behavior which results in another occurrence of the same event of default. 


(6) *Transfer of Control.* You violate § 107.475 and/or willfully violate § 107.410, and as a result of such violation you undergo a transfer of Control. 


(7) *Non-cooperation under § 107.1810(h).* You fail to take appropriate steps, satisfactory to SBA, to accomplish any action SBA may have required under paragraph (h) of this section. 


(8) *Non-notification of Events of Default.* You fail to notify SBA as soon as you know or reasonably should have known that any event of default exists under this section. 


(9) *Non-notification of defaults to others.* You fail to notify SBA in writing within ten days from the date of a declaration of an event of default or nonperformance under any note, debenture or indebtedness of yours, issued to or held by anyone other than SBA. 


(e) *SBA remedies for events of default with notice.* Upon written notice to you of the occurrence (as determined by SBA) of one or more of the events in paragraph (d) of this section: 


(1) SBA may declare the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest, and/or any other amounts owed SBA with respect to your Debentures, immediately due and payable; and 


(2) SBA may avail itself of any remedy available under the Act, specifically including institution of proceedings for the appointment of SBA or its designee as your receiver under section 311(c) of the Act. 


(f) *Events of default with opportunity to cure.* For any occurrence (as determined by SBA) of one or more of the events in this paragraph (f), SBA may avail itself of one or more of the remedies in paragraph (g) of this section. 


(1) *Excessive Management Expenses.* Without the prior written consent of SBA, you incur Management Expenses in excess of those permitted under § 107.520. 


(2) *Improper Distributions.* You make any Distribution to your shareholders or partners, except with the prior written consent of SBA, other than: 


(i) Distributions permitted under § 107.585; 


(ii) Payments from Retained Earnings Available for Distribution based on either the shareholders' pro-rata interests or the provisions for profit distributions in your partnership agreement, as appropriate;


(iii) Distributions by Participating Securities issuers as permitted under §§ 107.1540 through 107.1580; and


(iv) Distributions by Early Stage SBICs as permitted under § 107.1180.


(3) *Failure to make payment.* Unless otherwise approved by SBA, you fail to make timely payment of any amount due under any security or obligation of yours that is issued to, held or guaranteed by SBA. 


(4) *Failure to maintain Regulatory Capital.* You fail to maintain the minimum Regulatory Capital required under these regulations or, without the prior written consent of SBA, you reduce your Regulatory Capital, except as permitted by §§ 107.585 and 107.1560 through 107.1580. 


(5) *Capital Impairment.* You have a condition of Capital Impairment as determined under § 107.1830. 


(6) *Cross-default.* An obligation of yours that is greater than $100,000 becomes due or payable (with or without notice) before its stated maturity date, for any reason including your failure to pay any amount when due. This provision does not apply if you pay the amount due within any applicable grace period or contest the payment of the obligation in good faith by appropriate proceedings. 


(7) *Nonperformance.* You violate or fail to perform one or more of the terms and conditions of any security or obligation of yours that is issued to, held or guaranteed by SBA, or of any agreement with or conditions imposed by SBA in its administration of the Act and the regulations promulgated under the Act. 


(8) *Noncompliance.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, SBA determines that you have violated one or more of the substantive provisions of the Act, specifically including but not limited to the provisions summarized in section 310(c) of the Act, or any substantive regulation promulgated under the Act. 


(9) *Failure to maintain investment ratio.* You fail to maintain the investment ratio for Leverage in excess of 300 percent of Leverageable Capital (see § 107.1160(c)), if applicable to you, as of the end of each fiscal year. In determining whether you have maintained the ratio, SBA will disregard any prepayment, sale, or disposition of Venture Capital Financing, any increase in Leverageable Capital, and any receipt of additional Leverage, within 120 days prior to the end of your fiscal year. 


(10) *Failure to maintain diversity.* You fail to maintain diversity between management and ownership as required by § 107.150, if applicable to you. 


(11) *Failure by an Early Stage SBIC to meet investment requirements.* You are an Early Stage SBIC and, beginning on the first fiscal quarter end when your cumulative total Financings (in dollars) are at least equal to your Regulatory Capital, you have not made at least 50 percent of such Financings to Small Businesses that at the time of your initial Financing were “early stage” companies, as defined under the definition of Early Stage SBIC in § 107.50 of this part.


(12) *Failure by an Early Stage SBIC to maintain required interest reserve.* You are an Early Stage SBIC and you fail to maintain a sufficient reserve to pay interest and Charges on your Debentures as required under § 107.1181 of this part.


(g) *SBA remedies for events of default with opportunity to cure.* (1) Upon written notice to you of the occurrence (as determined by SBA) of one or more of the events of default in paragraph (f) of this section, and subject to the conditions in paragraph (g)(2) of this section: 


(i) SBA may declare the entire indebtedness evidenced by your Debentures, including accrued interest, and/or any other amounts owed SBA with respect to your Debentures, immediately due and payable; and 


(ii) SBA may avail itself of any remedy available under the Act, specifically including institution of proceedings for the appointment of SBA or its designee as your receiver under section 311(c) of the Act. 


(2) SBA may invoke the remedies in paragraph (g)(1) of this section only if: 


(i) It has given you at least 15 days to cure the default(s); and 


(ii) You fail to cure the default(s) to SBA's satisfaction within the allotted time.


(h) *Repeated non-substantive violations.* If you repeatedly fail to comply with one or more of the non-substantive provisions of the Act or any non-substantive regulation promulgated under the Act, SBA, after written notification to you and until you cure such condition to SBA's satisfaction, may deny you additional Leverage and/or require you to take such actions as SBA may determine to be appropriate under the circumstances. 


(i) *Consent to removal of officers, directors, or general partners and/or appointment of receiver.* The Articles of any Licensee issuing Debentures after April 25, 1994 must include the following provisions as a condition to the purchase or guarantee by SBA of such Leverage. Upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) or (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section as determined by SBA, SBA shall have the right, and your consent to SBA's exercise of such right: 


(1) With respect to a Corporate Licensee, upon written notice, to require you to replace, with individuals approved by SBA, one or more of your officers and/or such number of directors of your board of directors as is sufficient to constitute a majority of such board; or 


(2) With respect to a Partnership Licensee, upon written notice, to require you to remove the person(s) responsible for such occurrence and/or to remove the general partner of Licensee, which general partner shall then be replaced in accordance with Licensee's Articles by a new general partner approved by SBA; and/or 


(3) With respect to either a Corporate or Partnership Licensee, to obtain the appointment of SBA or its designee as your receiver under section 311(c) of the Act for the purpose of continuing your operations. The appointment of a receiver to liquidate a Licensee is not within such consent, but is governed instead by the relevant provisions of the Act. 


(j) *Additional SBA remedies applicable to Debentures issued by Early Stage SBICs.* If you are an Early Stage SBIC, upon SBA's payment pursuant to its guarantee of any of your Debentures, SBA shall have the following additional rights and you consent to SBA's exercise of any or all of such rights:


(1) To prohibit you from making any additional investments except for investments under legally binding commitments you entered into before such payment by SBA and, subject to SBA's prior written approval, investments that are necessary to protect your investments;


(2) Until all Leverage is repaid and amounts related thereto are paid in full, to prohibit Distributions by you to any party other than SBA, its agent or Trustee;


(3) To require all your commitments from investors to be funded at the earliest time(s) permitted in accordance with your Articles;


(4) To review and re-determine your approved Management Expenses; and


(5) To the appointment of SBA or its designee as your receiver under section 311(c) of the Act for the purpose of continuing your operations.



---

[N] [61 FR 3189, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 33916, July 14, 2009; 77 FR 25054, Apr. 27, 2012]




