# § 60.503a   Test methods and procedures.

(a) *General performance test and performance evaluation requirements.* (1) In conducting the performance tests or evaluations required by this subpart (or as requested by the Administrator), the owner or operator shall use the test methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). The three-run requirement of § 60.8(f) does not apply to this subpart.


(2) Immediately before the performance test, conduct leak detection monitoring following the methods in paragraph (e)(1) of this section to identify leakage of vapor from all equipment, including loading arms, in the gasoline loading rack affected facility while gasoline is being loaded into a gasoline cargo tank to ensure the terminal's vapor collection system equipment is operated with no detectable emissions. The owner or operator shall repair all leaks identified with readings of 500 ppmv (as methane) or greater above background before conducting the performance test and within the timeframe specified in § 60.502a(j)(7).


(b) *Performance test or performance evaluation timing.* (1) For each gasoline loading rack affected facility subject to the mass emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(1) or (c)(1), conduct the initial performance test of the vapor collection and processing systems according to the timing specified in § 60.8(a). For each gasoline loading rack affected facility subject to the emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(2) or (c)(2), conduct the initial performance evaluation of the continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) according to the timing specified for performance tests in § 60.8(a).


(2) For each gasoline loading rack affected facility complying with the mass emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(1) or (c)(1), conduct subsequent performance test of the vapor collection and processing system no later than 60 calendar months after the previous performance test.


(3) For each gasoline loading rack affected facility complying with the concentration emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(2) or (c)(2), conduct subsequent performance evaluations of CEMS for the vapor collection and processing system no later than 12 calendar months after the previous performance evaluation.


(c) *Performance test requirements for mass loading emission limit.* The owner or operator of a gasoline loading rack affected facility shall conduct performance tests of the vapor collection and processing system subject to the emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(1) or (c)(1), as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) The performance test shall be 6 hours long during which at least 80,000 gallons (300,000 liters) of gasoline is loaded. If this is not possible, the test may be continued the same day until 80,000 gallons (300,000 liters) of gasoline is loaded. If 80,000 gallons (300,000 liters) cannot be loaded during the first day of testing, the test may be resumed the next day with another 6-hour period. During the second day of testing, the 80,000-gallon (300,000-liter) criterion need not be met. However, as much as possible, testing should be conducted during the 6-hour period in which the highest throughput of gasoline normally occurs.


(2) If the vapor processing system is intermittent in operation and employs an intermediate vapor holder to accumulate total organic compounds vapors collected from gasoline cargo tanks, the performance test shall begin at a reference vapor holder level and shall end at the same reference point. The test shall include at least two startups and shutdowns of the vapor processor. If this does not occur under automatically controlled operations, the system shall be manually controlled.


(3) The emission rate (E) of total organic compounds shall be computed using the following equation:


(4) The performance test shall be conducted in intervals of 5 minutes. For each interval “i”, readings from each measurement shall be recorded, and the volume exhausted (V_esi_) and the corresponding average total organic compounds concentration (C_ei_) shall be determined. The sampling system response time shall be accounted for when determining the average total organic compounds concentration corresponding to the volume exhausted.


(5) Method 2B of appendix A-1 to this part shall be used to determine the volume (V_esi_) of air-vapor mixture exhausted at each interval.


(6) Method 25, 25A, or 25B of appendix A-7 to this part shall be used for determining the total organic compounds concentration (C_ei_) at each interval. Method 25 must not be used if the outlet TOC concentration is less than 50 ppmv. The calibration gas shall be propane. If the owner or operator conducts the performance test using either Method 25A or Method 25B, the methane content in the exhaust vent may be excluded following the procedures in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section. Alternatively, an instrument that uses gas chromatography with a flame ionization detector may be used according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(6)(vi) of this section.


(i) Measure the methane concentration by Method 18 of appendix A-6 to this part or Method 320 of appendix A to part 63 of this chapter.


(ii) Calibrate the Method 25A or Method 25B analyzer using both propane and methane to develop response factors to both compounds.


(iii) Determine the TOC concentration with the Method 25A or Method 25B analyzer on an as methane basis.


(iv) Subtract the methane measured according to paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section from the concentration determined in paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section.


(v) Convert the concentration difference determined in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section to TOC (minus methane), as propane, by using the response factors determined in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section. Multiply the concentration difference in paragraph (c)(6)(iv) of this section by the ratio of the response factor for propane to the response factor for methane.


(vi) Methane must be separated by the gas chromatograph and measured by the flame ionization detector, followed by a back-flush of the chromatographic column to directly measure TOC concentration minus methane. Use a direct interface and heated sampling line from the sampling point to the gas chromatographic injection valve. All sampling components leading to the analyzer must be heated to greater than 110 °C. Calibrate the instrument with propane. Calibration error and calibration drift must be demonstrated according to Method 25A, and the appropriate procedures in Method 25A must be followed to ensure the calibration error and calibration drift are within Method 25A limits. The TOC concentration minus methane must be recorded at least once every 15 minutes. The performance test report must include the calibration results and the results demonstrating proper separation of methane from the TOC concentration.


(7) To determine the volume (L) of gasoline dispensed during the performance test period at all loading racks whose vapor emissions are controlled by the processing system being tested, terminal records or readings from gasoline dispensing meters at each loading rack shall be used.


(8) Monitor the temperature in the combustion zone using the continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) required in § 60.504a(a) and determine the operating limit for the combustion device using the following procedures:


(i) Record the temperature or average temperature for each 5-minute period during the performance test.


(ii) Using only the 5-minute periods in which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks, determine the 1-hour average temperature for each hour of the performance test. If you do not know the previous contents of the cargo tank, you must assume liquid product loading is performed in gasoline cargo tanks such that you use all 5-minute periods in which liquid product is loaded into gasoline cargo tanks when determining the 1-hour average temperature for each hour of the performance test.


(iii) Starting at the end of the third hour of the performance test and at the end of each successive hour, calculate the 3-hour rolling average temperature using the 1-hour average values in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section. For a 6-hour test, this would result in four 3-hour averages (averages for hours 1 through 3, 2 through 4, 3 through 5, and 4 through 6).


(iv) Set the operating limit at the lowest 3-hour average temperature determined in paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section. New operating limits become effective on the date that the performance test report is submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), per the requirements of § 60.505a(b).


(d) *Performance evaluation requirements for concentration emission limit.* The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of the CEMS for vapor collection and processing systems subject to the emission limits in § 60.502a(b)(2) or (c)(2) as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) If the CEMS uses a nondispersive infrared analyzer, the CEMS must be installed, evaluated, and operated according to the requirements of Performance Specification 8 of appendix B to this part. Method 25B in appendix A-7 to this part must be used as the reference method, and the calibration gas must be propane. The owner or operator may request an alternative test method under § 60.8(b) to use a CEMS that excludes the methane content in the exhaust vent.


(2) If the CEMS uses a flame ionization detector, the CEMS must be installed, evaluated, and operated according to the requirements of Performance Specification 8A of appendix B to this part. As part of the performance evaluation, conduct a relative accuracy test audit (RATA) following the procedures in Performance Specification 2, section 8.4, of appendix B to this part; the relative accuracy must meet the criteria of Performance Specification 8, section 13.2, of appendix B to this part. Method 25A in appendix A-7 to this part must be used as the reference method, and the calibration gas must be propane. The owner or operator may exclude the methane content in the exhaust following the procedures in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Methane must be separated using a chromatographic column and measured by the flame ionization detector, followed by a back-flush of the chromatographic column to directly measure TOC concentration minus methane.


(ii) The CEMS must be installed, evaluated, and operated according to the requirements of Performance Specification 8A of appendix B to this part, except the target compound is TOC minus methane. As part of the performance evaluation, conduct a RATA following the procedures in Performance Specification 2, section 8.4, of appendix B to this part; the relative accuracy must meet the criteria of Performance Specification 8, section 13.2, of appendix B to this part.


(iii) If the concentration of TOC minus methane in the exhaust stream is greater than 50 ppmv, Method 25 in appendix A-7 to this part must be used as the reference method, and the calibration gas must be propane. If the concentration of TOC minus methane in the exhaust stream is 50 ppmv or less, Method 25A in appendix A-7 to this part must be used as the reference method, and the calibration gas must be propane. If Method 25A is the reference method, the procedures in paragraph (c)(6) of this section may be used to subtract methane from the TOC concentration.


(iv) The TOC concentration minus methane must be recorded at least once every 15 minutes.


(e) *Leak detection monitoring.* Conduct the leak detection monitoring specified in § 60.502a(j)(1) for the collection of equipment at a bulk gasoline terminal affected facility using one of the procedures specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section. Conduct the leak detection monitoring specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section using the procedures specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, except that the instrument reading that defines a leak is specified in paragraph (a)(2) for all equipment, including loading arms, in the gasoline loading rack affected facility and the calibration gas in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) must be at a concentration of 500 ppm methane.


(1) Method 21 in appendix A-7 to this part. The instrument reading that defines a leak is 10,000 ppmv (as methane). The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7. The calibration gases in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be used. The drift assessment specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section must be performed at the end of each monitoring day.


(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air); and


(ii) Methane and air at a concentration of 10,000 ppm methane.


(iii) At the end of each monitoring day, check the instrument using the same calibration gas that was used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. If multiple scales are used, record the instrument reading for each scale used. Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage. If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then re-monitor all equipment monitored since the last calibration with instrument readings between the leak definition and the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift) divided by 100. If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift) divided by 100 monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.


(2) OGI according to all the requirements in appendix K to this part. A leak is defined as any emissions plume imaged by the camera from equipment regulated by this subpart.


(f) *Annual certification test.* The annual certification test for gasoline cargo tanks shall consist of the following test methods and procedures:


(1) Method 27 of appendix A-8 to this part. Conduct the test using a time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5 minutes. The initial pressure (P_i_) for the pressure test shall be 460 mm water (H_2_O) (18 in. H_2_O), gauge. The initial vacuum (V_i_) for the vacuum test shall be 150 mm H_2_O (6 in. H_2_O), gauge. The maximum allowable pressure and vacuum changes (Δ p, Δ v) are as shown in table 1 to this paragraph (f)(1).


(2) Pressure test of the gasoline cargo tank's internal vapor valve as follows:


(i) After completing the tests under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, use the procedures in Method 27 to repressurize the gasoline cargo tank to 460 mm H_2_O (18 in. H_2_O), gauge. Close the gasoline cargo tank's internal vapor valve(s), thereby isolating the vapor return line and manifold from the gasoline cargo tank.


(ii) Relieve the pressure in the vapor return line to atmospheric pressure, then reseal the line. After 5 minutes, record the gauge pressure in the vapor return line and manifold. The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure increase is 65 mm H_2_O (2.5 in. H_2_O).


(3) As an alternative to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, you may use the procedure in § 63.425(i) of this chapter.






