# ยง 25.103   Stall speed.

(a) The reference stall speed, V_SR_, is a calibrated airspeed defined by the applicant. V_SR_ may not be less than a 1-g stall speed. V_SR_ is expressed as: 


(b) V_CL__MAX_ is determined with: 


(1) Engines idling, or, if that resultant thrust causes an appreciable decrease in stall speed, not more than zero thrust at the stall speed; 


(2) Propeller pitch controls (if applicable) in the takeoff position; 


(3) The airplane in other respects (such as flaps, landing gear, and ice accretions) in the condition existing in the test or performance standard in which V_SR_ is being used;


(4) The weight used when V_SR_ is being used as a factor to determine compliance with a required performance standard; 


(5) The center of gravity position that results in the highest value of reference stall speed; and 


(6) The airplane trimmed for straight flight at a speed selected by the applicant, but not less than 1.13V_SR_ and not greater than 1.3V_SR_. 


(c) Starting from the stabilized trim condition, apply the longitudinal control to decelerate the airplane so that the speed reduction does not exceed one knot per second. 


(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, when a device that abruptly pushes the nose down at a selected angle of attack (e.g., a stick pusher) is installed, the reference stall speed, V_SR_, may not be less than 2 knots or 2 percent, whichever is greater, above the speed at which the device operates.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 28404, 67 FR 70825, Nov. 26, 2002, as amended by Amdt. 25-121, 72 FR 44665, Aug. 8, 2007] 




