# § 635.21   Gear operation and deployment restrictions.

(a) *All Atlantic HMS fishing gears.* (1) An Atlantic HMS harvested from its management unit that is not retained must be released in a manner that will ensure maximum probability of survival, but without removing the fish from the water.


(2) If a billfish is caught by a hook and not retained, the fish must be released by cutting the line near the hook or by using a dehooking device, in either case without removing the fish from the water.


(3) *Restricted gear and closed areas for all Atlantic HMS fishing gears.* (i) No person may fish for, catch, possess, or retain any Atlantic HMS or anchor a fishing vessel that has been issued a permit or is required to be permitted under this part, in the areas and seasons designated at § 622.34(a)(3) of this chapter.


(ii) From November through April of each year, no vessel issued, or required to be issued, a permit under this part may fish or deploy any type of fishing gear in the Madison-Swanson closed area or the Steamboat Lumps closed area, as defined in § 635.2.


(iii) From May through October of each year, no vessel issued, or required to be issued, a permit under this part may fish or deploy any type of fishing gear in the Madison-Swanson or the Steamboat Lumps closed areas except for surface trolling. For the purposes of this section, surface trolling is defined as fishing with lines trailing behind a vessel which is in constant motion at speeds in excess of four knots with a visible wake. Such trolling may not involve the use of down riggers, wire lines, planers, or similar devices.


(iv) From January through April of each year, no vessel issued, or required to be issued, a permit under this part may fish or deploy any type of fishing gear in the Edges 40 Fathom Contour closed area, as defined in § 635.2.


(v) Within the areas of the Gulf coral HAPCs designated at § 622.74 of this chapter, no person may bottom anchor a fishing vessel or deploy fishing gear that may not be deployed pursuant to § 622.74 of this chapter. For purposes of this provision, fishing gear is deployed if any part of the gear is in contact with the water.


(4) Any person on board a vessel that is issued a commercial shark permit must release all shortfin mako sharks, whether alive or dead, caught with any gear other than pelagic longline, bottom longline, or gillnet gear, except that any person on board a vessel that is issued a commercial shark permit in combination with a permit that has a shark endorsement may retain shortfin mako sharks subject to the recreational minimum size limits in § 635.20, the recreational retention limits in § 635.22, and authorized gear requirements in § 635.19.


(b) *Longline—general restrictions.* (1) All vessels that have pelagic or bottom longline gear onboard and that have been issued, or are required to have, a swordfish, shark, or Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP for use in the Atlantic Ocean including the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico must possess inside the wheelhouse the document provided by NMFS entitled “Careful Release Protocols for Sea Turtle Release with Minimal Injury,” and must also post inside the wheelhouse the sea turtle handling and release guidelines provided by NMFS.


(2) Transiting and gear stowage: If a vessel issued or required to be issued a LAP under this part has pelagic or bottom longline gear onboard and is in a closed or gear restricted area as designated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section or a monitoring area designated in paragraph (c)(3) of this section that has been closed, it is a rebuttable presumption that any fish on board such a vessel were taken with pelagic or bottom longline gear in the area except where such possession is aboard a vessel transiting such an area with all fishing gear stowed appropriately. Longline gear is stowed appropriately if all gangions and hooks are disconnected from the mainline and are stowed on or below deck, hooks are not baited, and all buoys and weights are disconnected from the mainline and drum (buoys may remain on deck).


(3) When a marine mammal or sea turtle is hooked or entangled by pelagic or bottom longline gear, the owner and operator of the vessel must immediately release the animal, retrieve the pelagic or bottom longline gear, and move at least 1 nmi (2 km) from the location of the incident before resuming fishing. Similarly, when a smalltooth sawfish is hooked or entangled by bottom longline gear, the operator of the vessel must immediately release the animal, retrieve the bottom longline gear, and move at least 1 nmi (2 km) from the location of the incident before resuming fishing. Reports of marine mammal entanglements must be submitted to NMFS consistent with regulations in § 229.6 of this title.




(4) Vessels that have pelagic or bottom longline gear on board and that have been issued, or are required to have been issued, a permit under this part must have only corrodible hooks on board.




(c) *Pelagic longlines.* (1) If a vessel issued or required to be issued a permit under this part:


(i) Has bottom longline gear on board and is in a closed or gear restricted area designated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section or is in a monitoring area designated under paragraph (c)(3) of this section that has been closed, the vessel may not, at any time, possess or land any pelagic species listed in table 2 of appendix A to this part in excess of 5 percent, by weight, of the total weight of pelagic and demersal species possessed or landed, that are listed in tables 2 and 3 of appendix A to this part.


(ii) Has pelagic longline gear on board, persons aboard that vessel may not possess, retain, transship, land, sell, or store silky sharks, oceanic whitetip sharks, or scalloped, smooth, or great hammerhead sharks.


(iii) Has pelagic longline gear on board, persons aboard that vessel are required to release unharmed, to the extent practicable, porbeagle sharks that are alive at the time of haulback.


(iv) Has pelagic longline gear on board, persons aboard that vessel are required to promptly release in a manner that causes the least harm any shortfin mako shark that is alive at the time of haulback, consistent with the requirements specified at paragraphs (a)(1) and (c)(6)(i) of this section. When the commercial retention limit specified at § 635.24(a)(4)(v) is greater than zero, any shortfin mako shark that is dead at the time of haulback may be retained provided the electronic monitoring system is installed and functioning in compliance with the requirements at § 635.9.


(2) If pelagic longline gear is on board a vessel issued or required to be issued a LAP under this part, persons aboard that vessel may not fish or deploy any type of fishing gear:


(i) In the Charleston Bump closed area from February 1 through April 30 each calendar year;


(ii) In the East Florida Coast closed area at any time;


(iii) In the Desoto Canyon closed area at any time;


(iv) In the NED at any time, unless persons onboard the vessel comply with the following:


(A) The vessel is limited to possessing onboard and/or using only 18/0 or larger circle hooks with an offset not to exceed 10 degrees. The outer diameter of the circle hook at its widest point must be no smaller than 2.16 inches (55 mm) when measured with the eye on the hook on the vertical axis (y-axis) and perpendicular to the horizontal axis (x-axis), and the distance between the circle hook point and the shank (*i.e.,* the gap) must be no larger than 1.13 inches (28.8 mm). The allowable offset is measured from the barbed end of the hook and is relative to the parallel plane of the eyed-end, or shank, of the hook when laid on its side. The only allowable offset circle hooks are those that are offset by the hook manufacturer. If green-stick gear, as defined at § 635.2, is onboard, a vessel may possess up to 20 J-hooks. J-hooks may be used only with green-stick gear, and no more than 10 hooks may be used at one time with each green-stick gear. J-hooks used with green-stick gear may be no smaller than 1.5 inch (38.1 mm) when measured in a straight line over the longest distance from the eye to any other part of the hook; and,


(B) The vessel is limited, at all times, to possessing onboard and/or using only whole Atlantic mackerel and/or squid bait, except that artificial bait may be possessed and used only with green-stick gear, as defined at § 635.2, if green-stick gear is onboard; and,


(C) All sea turtle bycatch mitigation measures specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section, except for the mitigation measures specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section, as these paragraphs specify bait, hook size, and hook type requirements for vessels fishing outside the NED as defined in § 635.2. Instead, persons on board the vessel must comply with hook size and type requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section and bait restrictions in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.


















(3) From April 2, 2020 to December 31, 2022, a vessel issued or required to be issued a LAP under this part may fish with pelagic longline gear in the Northeastern United States Pelagic Longline Monitoring Area during the month of June or in the Spring Gulf of Mexico Pelagic Longline Monitoring Area during the months of April and May until the annual IBQ allocation threshold for the monitoring area has been reached or is projected to be reached. The annual IBQ allocation threshold is 150,519 lb for the Northeastern United States Pelagic Longline Monitoring Area, and 63,150 lb for the Spring Gulf of Mexico Pelagic Longline Monitoring Area. If between April 2, 2020 and December 31, 2022, the U.S. allocation of ICCAT bluefin tuna quota codified at § 635.27(a) is reduced, and the BFT Longline category quota established at § 635.26 (a)(3) is subsequently reduced, the annual IBQ allocation thresholds for each monitoring area will be modified as follows: The Gulf of Mexico threshold will be 55 percent of the Gulf of Mexico regional designation as defined at § 635.15 (b)(2) and 72 percent of the Atlantic regional designation as defined at § 635.15 (b)(2). When the relevant threshold is reached, or is projected to be reached, NMFS will file for publication with the Office of the Federal Register a closure for that monitoring area, which will be effective no fewer than five days from date of filing. From the effective date and time of the closure forward, vessels issued or required to be issued a LAP under this part and that have pelagic longline gear on board are prohibited from deploying pelagic longline gear within the boundaries of the relevant monitoring area during the months specified for that area in this paragraph above. After December 31, 2022, if no closure of a particular monitoring area has been implemented under the provisions of this paragraph, vessels with pelagic longline gear on board may continue to deploy pelagic longline gear in that area; if a closure has been issued for a particular monitoring area under the provisions of this paragraph, vessels with pelagic longline gear on board will continue to be prohibited from deploying pelagic longline gear in that area.


(4) In the Gulf of Mexico, pelagic longline gear may not be fished or deployed from a vessel issued or required to have been issued a LAP under this part with live bait affixed to the hooks; and, a person aboard a vessel issued or required to have been issued a LAP under this part that has pelagic longline gear on board may not possess live baitfish, maintain live baitfish in any tank or well on board the vessel, or set up or attach an aeration or water circulation device in or to any such tank or well. For the purposes of this section, the Gulf of Mexico includes all waters of the U.S. EEZ west and north of the boundary stipulated at 50 CFR 600.105(c).


(5) The owner and operator of a vessel permitted or required to be permitted under this part and that has pelagic longline gear on board must undertake the following sea turtle bycatch mitigation measures:




(i) *Possession and use of required mitigation gear.* Required sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear, which NMFS has approved under paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section as meeting the minimum design standards specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (M) of this section, must be carried onboard, and must be used to disengage any hooked or entangled sea turtles in accordance with the handling requirements specified in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section.


(A) *Long-handled line clipper or cutter.* Line cutters are intended to cut high test monofilament line as close as possible to the hook, and assist in removing line from entangled sea turtles to minimize any remaining gear upon release. NMFS has established minimum design standards for the line cutters, which may be purchased or fabricated from readily available and low-cost materials. The LaForce line cutter and the Arceneaux line clipper are models that meet these minimum design standards. One long-handled line clipper or cutter meeting the minimum design standards, and a set of replacement blades, are required to be onboard. The minimum design standards for line cutters are as follows:


(*1*) A protected and secured cutting blade. The cutting blade(s) must be capable of cutting 2.0-2.1 mm (0.078 in.-0.083 in.) monofilament line (400-lb test) or polypropylene multistrand material, known as braided or tarred mainline, and must be maintained in working order. The cutting blade must be curved, recessed, contained in a holder, or otherwise designed to facilitate its safe use so that direct contact between the cutting surface and the sea turtle or the user is prevented. The cutting instrument must be securely attached to an extended reach handle and be easily replaceable. One extra set of replacement blades meeting these standards must also be carried on board to replace all cutting surfaces on the line cutter or clipper.


(*2*) An extended reach handle. The line cutter blade(s) must be securely fastened to an extended reach handle or pole with a minimum length equal to, or greater than, 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or 6 feet (1.83 m), whichever is greater. It is recommended, but not required, that the handle break down into sections. There is no restriction on the type of material used to construct this handle as long as it is sturdy and facilitates the secure attachment of the cutting blade.




(B) *Long-handled dehooker for internal hooks.* A long-handled dehooking device is intended to remove internal hooks from sea turtles that cannot be boated. It should also be used to engage a loose hook when a turtle is entangled but not hooked, and line is being removed. The design must shield the point of the hook and prevent the hook from re-engaging during the removal process. One long-handled device, meeting the minimum design standards as described below, is required on board to remove internal hooks. The minimum design standards are as follows:


(*1*) *Hook removal device.* Marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L) or similar (*i.e.,* designed to resist corrosion during exposure to saltwater) must be used for all components. The hook removal device must be constructed of three-sixteenths to five-sixteenths of an inch (4.76-7.94 mm) marine-grade stainless steel and have a dehooking end no larger than 1
7/8-inch (4.76-cm) outside diameter. The device must securely engage and control the leader while shielding the point of the hook to prevent the hook from re-engaging during removal. The hook removal device must not have any unprotected points (including blunt ones), as these could cause injury to the mouth and esophagus during hook removal. The device must be of a size appropriate to secure the range of hook sizes and styles used in the pelagic longline fishery targeting swordfish and tuna.


(*2*) *Extended reach handle.* The dehooking end must be securely fastened to an extended reach handle or pole with a minimum length equal to or greater than 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater. It is recommended, but not required, that the handle break down into sections. The handle must be sturdy and strong enough to facilitate the secure attachment of the hook removal device.


(C) *Long-handled dehooker for external hooks.* A long-handled dehooker, meeting the minimum design standards, is required on board for use on externally hooked sea turtles that cannot be boated. The long-handled dehooker for internal hooks described in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(B) of this section meets this requirement. The minimum design standards are as follows:


(*1*) *Hook removal device.* Marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L) or similar (*i.e.,* designed to resist corrosion during exposure to saltwater) must be used for all components on any style of long-handled dehooker. If utilizing a wire-style dehooker (*e.g.,* a pigtail or J-style dehooker), the long-handled dehooker must be constructed of three-sixteenths to five-sixteenths of an inch (4.76-7.94 mm) marine-grade stainless steel. All long-handled dehookers must have a dehooking end no larger than 1
7/8-inch (4.76-cm) outside diameter. Smaller dehooking ends may be appropriate when encountering small turtles. A 5-inch (12.7-cm) tube T-handle of 1-inch (2.54-cm) outside diameter is recommended, but not required. The design must be such that a fish hook can be rotated out, without pulling it out at an angle, as described in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, and in the NMFS-SEFSC TM-735 Careful Release Protocols. The dehooking end must be blunt with all edges rounded. The device must be of a size appropriate to secure the range of hook sizes and styles used in the pelagic longline fishery targeting swordfish and tuna.


(*2*) *Extended reach handle.* The dehooking end must be securely fastened to an extended reach handle or pole. The handle must be a minimum length equal to or greater than 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard or 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater.


(D) *Long-handled device to pull an “inverted V.”* This tool is used to pull a “V” in the fishing line when implementing the “inverted V” dehooking technique, as described in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(C) of this section and in the NMFS-SEFSC TM-735 Careful Release Protocols, for disentangling and dehooking entangled sea turtles. One long-handled device to pull an “inverted V”, meeting the minimum design standards, is required on board. If a 6 ft (1.83 m) or longer J-style dehooker is used to comply with paragraph (c)(5)(i)(C) of this section, it will also satisfy this requirement. Minimum design standards are as follows:


(*1*) *Hook end.* This device, such as a standard boat hook, gaff, or long-handled J-style dehooker must be constructed of stainless steel or aluminum. A sharp point, such as on a gaff hook, is to be used only for holding the monofilament fishing line and must never contact the sea turtle.


(*2*) *Extended reach handle.* The handle must have a minimum length equal to or greater than 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater. The handle must be sturdy and strong enough to facilitate the secure attachment of the gaff hook.


(E) *Boating the turtle.* A device to bring incidentally caught sea turtles aboard the vessel must be carried on board the vessel to facilitate safe handling of sea turtles by allowing them to be brought on board for fishing gear removal without causing further injury to the animal. Sea turtles must never be brought on board without a net or hoist. Using the involved fishing gear to raise the turtle can result in serious injury. The following devices are options to meet this requirement.


(*1*) *Dipnet.* The dipnet must have a sturdy net hoop of at least 31 inches (78.74 cm) of inside diameter and a bag depth of at least 38 inches (96.52 cm) to accommodate turtles below 3 ft (91.44 cm) carapace length. The bag mesh openings may not exceed 3 inches (7.62 cm) bar measure, defined as the non-stretched distance between a side knot and a bottom knot of a net mesh (also known as the square mesh measurement). There must be no sharp edges or burrs on the hoop, or where the hoop is attached to the handle. The dipnet hoop must be securely fastened to an extended reach handle or pole with a minimum length equal to, or greater than, 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or at least 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater. The handle must be made of a rigid material strong enough to facilitate the sturdy attachment of the net hoop and able to support a minimum of 100 lb (45.36 kg) without breaking or significant bending or distortion. It is recommended, but not required, that the extended reach handle break down into sections.


(*2*) *Collapsible hoop net.* The collapsible hoop net frame must be constructed of stiff wire cable that coils to compress the size for storage. This device must have a minimum 31-inch (78.74-cm) inside diameter and a bag depth of at least 38 inches (96.52 cm) to accommodate turtles up to 3 ft (91.44 cm) in straight carapace length. The bag mesh openings may not exceed 3 inches (7.62 cm) bar measure, defined as the non-stretched distance between a side knot and a bottom knot of a net mesh (also known as the square mesh measurement). There must be no sharp edges or burrs on the hoop. The device must be capable of lifting at least 100 lb (45.36 kg). No extended reach handle is needed on this type of net, although the rope handle length must be 6 ft (1.83 m) or 150 percent of freeboard height, whichever is greater.


(*3*) *Turtle hoist.* A turtle hoist consists of a supportive frame with mesh netting. A turtle hoist can be used to bring turtles on board that cannot be boated using a dipnet or collapsible hoop net. The two sizes that meet the design standards are described in paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(E)(*3*)(*i*) and (*ii*) of this section. The size of the turtle hoist used should match the size of turtles encountered.


(*i*) *Small turtle hoist.* The frame must be capable of supporting at least 100 lb (45.36 kg), with a minimum inside diameter of 31 inches (78.74 cm) to accommodate turtles up to 3 ft (91.44 cm) straight carapace length. This frame can be hinged or otherwise designed so that it can be folded for ease of storage as long as it can be quickly reassembled. If the frame is designed to fold or break down for storage, the hardware must be self-contained (*e.g.,* barrel bolts on both sides to lock down frame with no loose pieces like through bolts and nuts), and there must be no sharp edges. The shape of the frame does not matter (*e.g.,* round, square, rectangular, or a “U-shaped” or “J-shaped” basket) as long as it meets the required specifications and securely contains the turtle. The frame may be constructed of heavy-duty stainless steel tubing welded into shape or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (recommended 2-inch (5.08-cm) diameter with a required minimum strength of Schedule 40) connected and glued at the corners using 90° elbow fittings. PVC pipes can be drilled to facilitate water drainage for ease of hauling. A shallow bag net with mesh openings not to exceed 3 × 3 inches (7.62 × 7.62 cm) (bar measure) must be securely affixed to the frame, and lines (*e.g.,* polypropylene, nylon, polyester) must be securely attached to each corner to control and retrieve the frame and net. The lines can be operated using a pulley system if available on the vessel. No rigid extended reach handle is needed on this type of net, although the rope handle length must be 6 ft (1.83 m) or 150 percent of freeboard height, whichever is greater.


(*ii*) *Large turtle hoist.* The large turtle hoist must be capable of lifting a minimum of half a ton. The structure of the hoist must consist of three circular aluminum bar rings (top, middle, and bottom) connected with mesh and spokes. The hoist should be designed so that when on board, the turtle is suspended above the deck on a platform of mesh netting (8 mm, 6.5 inches (16.51 cm) stretch knotless 600-ply polyethylene netting) stretched across the middle ring. The turtle should be contained within a webbing fence (at least 18 inches (45.72 cm) high) which is supported by the top and middle rings and made of 3 mm, 4.7 inches (11.94 cm) stretch mesh braided polyethylene webbing, and wrapped along the top ring with 
1/2-inch (1.27-cm) polypropylene rope. The top and middle rings (1
3/4 inch (4.45 cm) 50 series aluminum round bar) should be 7 ft and 6 inches (2.29 m) in diameter. The bottom ring (1
1/2 inches (3.81 cm) 50 series aluminum round bar) should be 4 ft (1.22 m) in diameter. The middle and bottom rings are connected using 12 spoke braces (approximately 23 inches (58.42 cm) long, 1 inch (2.54 cm) round 50 series aluminum round bar or 6061 T6 1 inch (2.54 cm) Schedule 40 pipe) angled at approximately 25° and welded in place with an appropriate welding wire (5052, 6061 or 3003 wire). Rubber cookies (8 × 2
1/2 inches (20.32 × 6.35 cm), 4 per each of 12 sections) may be used on the middle ring to facilitate rolling the hoist up the side of the vessel and to cushion impact of the hoist against the side of the vessel. When deployed in rough seas, the hoist should be held to the side of the vessel to prevent swinging and collision with the vessel hull. A 3- or 4-point bridle is attached to the top ring using pair links and three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) nylon 3-strand line, and a hydraulic lift is used to bring hoist aboard.


(F) *Cushion/support device for boated turtles.* Each vessel is required to carry a device that effectively cushions and supports a sea turtle while it is on board. The device used must be appropriately sized to support the sea turtle encountered. The device must be puncture proof (*e.g.,* no inner tubes, pool toys) and cannot be a primary safety device (*e.g.,* primary life ring or life jacket dedicated to personnel on board). Examples that meet current design standards include:


(*1*) *A standard automobile tire.* A standard (not from a truck or heavy equipment) passenger vehicle tire not mounted on a rim and free of exposed steel belts, is effective for supporting a turtle in an upright orientation while it is on board. An assortment of sizes is recommended to accommodate a range of turtle sizes. If the turtle is too large for the tire, it must be contained and supported on an alternative cushioned surface.


(*2*) *Boat cushion.* A standard boat cushion can effectively support smaller turtles.


(*3*) *Large turtle hoist.* This style is recommended for supporting large turtles such as leatherbacks, which need a supportive platform while on board. The large turtle hoist described in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(E)(*3*)(*ii*) of this section satisfies this requirement.


(G) *Short-handled dehooker for internal hooks.* One short-handled device, meeting the minimum design standards, is required on board for removing hooks that are internal or ingested. This dehooker is designed to remove internal hooks from boated sea turtles. It can also be used on external hooks or hooks in the front of the mouth. Minimum design standards are as follows:


(*1*) *Hook removal device.* Unless otherwise noted, all components must be made of marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L). If utilizing a wire-style dehooker (*e.g.,* a pigtail or J-style dehooker), the hook removal device must be constructed of three-sixteenths to five-sixteenths of an inch (4.76-7.94 mm) marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L) rod and have a dehooking end no wider than 1
7/8 inches (4.76 cm) total width. The end must allow the hook to be secured and the point to be shielded without re-engaging during the removal process. It may not have any unprotected terminal points or sharp edges, as this could cause injury to the esophagus during hook removal. A sliding PVC bite block must be used to protect the beak and facilitate hook removal if the turtle bites down on the dehooking device. The bite block should be constructed of a three-quarter- to 1-inch (1.91-2.54 cm) inside diameter high-impact plastic cylinder (*e.g.,* Schedule 80 PVC) that is 4-6 in (10.16-15.24 cm) long to allow for at least 5 inches (12.7 cm) of slide along the shaft. The device must be of a size appropriate to secure the range of hook sizes and styles used in the pelagic longline fishery targeting swordfish and tuna.


(*2*) *Handle length.* The handle must be 16-24 inches (40.64-60.96 cm) in length, with a tube T-handle, wire loop handle, or similar type of handle that is approximately 4-6 inches (10.16-15.24 cm) long.


(H) *Short-handled dehooker for external hooks.* One short-handled dehooker for external hooks, meeting the minimum design standards, is required on board. The short-handled dehooker for internal hooks required to comply with paragraph (c)(5)(i)(G) of this section will also satisfy this requirement. Minimum design standards are as follows:


(*1*) *Hook removal device.* Marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L) must be used for all components. If utilizing a wire-style dehooker (*e.g.,* a pigtail or J-style dehooker), the dehooker must be constructed of three-sixteenths to five-sixteenths of an inch (4.76-7.94 mm) marine-grade stainless steel (316 L or 304 L) and have a dehooking end no wider than 1
7/8 inches (4.76 cm) total width. The design must be such that a hook can be rotated out without pulling it out at an angle. The dehooking end must be blunt, and all edges rounded. The device must be of a size appropriate to secure the range of hook sizes and styles used in the pelagic longline fishery targeting swordfish and tuna.


(*2*) *Handle length.* The handle must be 16-24 inches (40.64-60.96 cm) long with a tube T-handle, wire loop handle, or similar type of handle that is approximately 4-6 inches (10.16-15.24 cm) long.


(I) *Long-nose or needle-nose pliers.* One pair of long-nose or needle-nose pliers is required to be on board. Such pliers must be a minimum of 11 inches (27.94 cm) in length, and should be constructed of stainless steel material or other material designed to resist corrosion during exposure to saltwater. The pliers can be used to remove embedded hooks from the turtle's flesh or hooks in the front of the mouth. The pliers are also useful for holding PVC splice couplings in place as mouth openers.


(J) *Bolt cutters.* One pair of bolt cutters is required on board. Such bolt cutters must be a minimum of 14 inches (35.56 cm) in total length, with a minimum of 4 inches (10.16 cm) long blades that are a minimum of 2
1/4 inches (5.72 cm) wide, when closed, and with 10- to 13-inch (25.40- to 33.02-cm) long handles. Such bolt cutters must be able to cut hard metals, such as stainless or carbon steel hooks, up to one-quarter of an inch (6.35 mm) in diameter, and they must be capable of cutting through the hooks used on a vessel. The required bolt cutters may be used to cut hooks to facilitate their removal. They should be used to cut off the eye or point of a hook, so that it can safely be pushed through a sea turtle without causing further injury. They should also be used to cut off as much of the hook as possible, when the remainder of the hook cannot be removed.


(K) *Monofilament line cutters.* One pair of monofilament line cutters is required on board. Such monofilament line cutters must be a minimum of 6 inches (15.24 cm) in overall length. The blades must be 1 inch (2.54 cm) in length and five-eighths inch (1.59 cm) wide, when closed, and are recommended to be coated with Teflon (a trademark owned by E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company Corp.). The line cutters must be used to remove netting, entangling line, or fishing line as close to the eye of the hook as possible, if the hook is swallowed or cannot be removed safely.


(L) *Mouth openers/mouth gags.* Required mouth openers and mouth gags are used to open sea turtle mouths, and to keep them open when removing internal hooks from boated turtles. They must allow access to the hook or line without causing further injury to the turtle. Design standards are included in the item descriptions. At least 2 of the 7 different types of mouth openers/gags described below are required on board the vessel:


(*1*) *A block of hard wood.* Placed in the corner of the jaw, a block of hard wood may be used to gag open a turtle's mouth. A smooth block of hard wood of a type that does not splinter (*e.g.,* maple) with rounded edges must be sanded smooth. The dimensions should be appropriately sized for the size of turtles that may be caught or approximately 10 × 0.75 × 0.75 inches (25.40 × 1.91 × 1.91 cm). A long-handled, wire shoe brush with a wooden handle, and with the wires removed, is an inexpensive, effective and practical mouth-opening device that meets these requirements. A wooden hammer handle (without the head attached) may also be suitable, provided it is made from wood that does not splinter under pressure (*e.g.,* ash, maple).


(*2*) *A set of three canine mouth gags.* Canine mouth gags are highly recommended to hold a turtle's mouth open, because the gag locks into an open position to allow for hands-free operation after it is in place. A set of canine mouth gags must include one of each of the following sizes: small (5 in; 12.7 cm), medium (6 in; 15.24 cm), and large (7 in; 17.78 cm). They must be constructed of stainless steel.


(*3*) *A set of two sturdy dog chew bones.* Placed in the corner of a turtle's jaw, canine chew bones are used to gag open a sea turtle's mouth. Required canine chews must be constructed of durable nylon, zylene resin, or thermoplastic polymer, and strong enough to withstand biting without splintering. To accommodate a variety of turtle beak sizes, a set must include one large (5.5-8 inches (13.97-20.32 cm) in length) and one small (3.5-4.5 inches (8.89-11.43 cm) in length) canine chew bone.


(*4*) *A set of two rope loops covered with hose.* A set of 2 rope loops covered with a piece of hose or flexible tubing can be used as a mouth opener, and to keep a turtle's mouth open during hook and/or line removal. A required set consists of two 3-ft (91.44-cm) lengths of poly braid rope (three-eighths of an inch (9.53 mm) in diameter is suggested), each covered with an 8-inch (20.32-cm) section of half-inch (1.27-cm) or three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) light-duty garden hose or flexible tubing, and each tied into a loop. The upper loop of rope covered with hose is secured on the upper beak to give control with one hand, and the second piece of rope covered with hose is secured on the lower beak to give control with the user's foot.


(*5*) *A hank of rope.* Placed in the corner of a turtle's jaw, a hank of rope can be used to gag open a sea turtle's mouth. A 6-ft (1.83-m) lanyard with a minimum of three-sixteenths-inch (4.76-mm) braided soft rope may be folded to create a hank, (or a coiled or looped bundle), of rope. Any size braided soft rope is allowed; however, it must create a hank of approximately 2-4 inches (5.08-10.16 cm) in thickness.


(*6*) *A set of four PVC splice couplings.* PVC splice couplings can be positioned inside a turtle's mouth to allow access to the back of the mouth for hook and line removal. They are to be held in place with the needle-nose pliers. To ensure proper fit and access, a required set must consist of the following Schedule 40 PVC splice coupling sizes: 1 inch (2.54 cm), 1
1/4 inches (3.18 cm), 1
1/2 inches (3.81 cm), and 2 inches (5.08 cm).


(*7*) *A large avian oral speculum.* A large avian oral speculum provides the ability to hold a turtle's mouth open and to control the head with one hand, while removing a hook with the other hand. The avian oral speculum must be 9 inches (22.86 cm) long and constructed of three-sixteenths-inch (4.76-mm) wire diameter surgical stainless steel (Type 304). It must be covered with 8 inches (20.32 cm) of clear vinyl tubing (five-sixteenths-inch (7.94-mm) outside diameter, three-sixteenths-inch (4.76-mm) inside diameter), friction tape, or similar material to pad the surface.






(M) *Turtle control devices.* One turtle control device, as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(M)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section, and meeting the minimum design standards, is required onboard and must be used to secure a front flipper of the sea turtle so that the animal can be controlled at the side of the vessel. It is strongly recommended that a pair of turtle control devices be used to secure both front flippers when crew size and conditions allow. Minimum design standards consist of:


(*1*) *Turtle tether and extended reach handle.* Approximately 15-20 ft (4.57-6.10 m) of half-inch (1.27 cm) hard lay negative buoyancy line or similar is used to make an approximately 30-inch (76.2-cm) loop to slip over the flipper. The line is fed through a three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) inside diameter fair lead, eyelet, or eyebolt at the working end of a pole and through a three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) eyelet or eyebolt in the midsection. A half-inch (1.27-cm) quick release cleat holds the line in place near the end of the pole. A final three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) eyelet or eyebolt should be positioned approximately 7 inches (17.78 cm) behind the cleat to secure the line, while allowing a safe working distance to avoid injury when releasing the line from the cleat. The line must be securely fastened to an extended reach handle or pole with a minimum length equal to, or greater than, 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or a minimum of 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater. There is no restriction on the type of material used to construct this handle, as long as it is sturdy. The handle must include a tag line to attach the tether to the vessel to prevent the turtle from breaking away with the tether still attached.


(*2*) *Ninja sticks and extended reach handles.* Approximately 30-35 ft (9.14-10.67 m) of one-half to five-eighths of an inch (1.27-1.59 cm) of soft lay polypropylene line, nylon line or similar line is fed through 2 PVC conduit, fiberglass, or similar sturdy poles and knotted using an overhand (recommended) knot at the end of both poles or otherwise secured. There should be approximately 18-24 inches (45.72-60.96 cm) of exposed rope between the poles to be used as a working surface to capture and secure the flipper. Knot the line at the ends of both poles to prevent line slippage if they are not otherwise secured. The remaining line is used to tether the apparatus to the boat unless an additional tag line is used. Two lengths of sunlight resistant three-quarter-inch (1.91-cm) schedule 40 PVC electrical conduit, fiberglass, aluminum, or similar material should be used to construct the apparatus with a minimum length equal to, or greater than, 150 percent of the height of the vessel's freeboard, or 6 ft (1.83 m), whichever is greater.










(ii) *Handling and release requirements.* (A) *Sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear and protocols.* Sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear, as required by paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, must be used to disengage any hooked or entangled sea turtles that cannot be brought on board. Sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear, as required by paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(E) through (M) of this section, must be used to facilitate access, safe handling, disentanglement, and hook removal or hook cutting of sea turtles that can be brought on board, where feasible. Sea turtles must be handled, and bycatch mitigation gear must be used, in accordance with the careful release protocols and handling/release guidelines specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, and in accordance with the onboard handling and resuscitation requirements specified in 50 CFR 223.206(d)(1).


(B) *Boated turtles.* When practicable, active and unresponsive sea turtles must be brought on board, with a minimum of injury, using a dipnet, collapsible hoop net, or turtle hoist, as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i)(E) of this section. All turtles less than 3 ft (91.44 cm) carapace length must be boated, if sea conditions permit. Turtles must be lifted and carried by holding the front and back of the carapace (shell) or by holding the shell by both sides. A turtle must be cradled while holding the shell and base of the flippers. A turtle must never be lifted or dragged by the flippers when it is brought on board, handled on deck, or released.


(*1*) *Preparation for gear and hook removal.* A boated turtle must be placed on a device that effectively cushions and supports a sea turtle while it is on board, as described in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(F) of this section. The turtle must be in an upright orientation to immobilize it and facilitate gear removal. Then, it should be determined if the hook can be removed without causing further injury.


(*2*) *External hook removal.* All externally embedded hooks must be removed, unless hook removal would result in further injury to the turtle. No attempt to remove a hook should be made if it has been swallowed and the insertion point is not visible, or if it is determined that removal would result in further injury.


(*3*) *Irremovable hook protocol.* If a hook cannot be removed, as much line as possible must be removed from the turtle using monofilament cutters as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i)(K) of this section, and the hook should be cut as close as possible to the insertion point before releasing the turtle, using bolt cutters as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i)(J) of this section.


(*4*) *Removable hook protocol.* If a hook can be removed, an effective technique may be to cut off either the barb, or the eye, of the hook using bolt cutters, and then to slide the hook out. When the hook is visible in the front of the mouth, a mouth-opener, as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i)(L) of this section, may facilitate opening the turtle's mouth and a gag may facilitate keeping the mouth open. Short-handled dehookers for internal hooks, long-nose pliers, or needle-nose pliers, as required by paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(G) through (I) of this section, should be used to remove visible hooks from the mouth that have not been swallowed, as appropriate.


(*5*) *Gear removal.* As much gear as possible must be removed from the turtle without causing further injury prior to its release. Refer to the careful release protocols and handling/release guidelines required in this paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B), and the handling and resuscitation requirements specified in 50 CFR 223.206(d)(1), for additional information.


(C) *Non-boated turtles.* If a sea turtle is too large, or hooked in a manner that precludes safe boating without causing further damage or injury to the turtle, sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear required by paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section must be used to disentangle sea turtles from fishing gear and disengage any hooks, or to clip the line and remove as much line as possible from a hook that cannot be removed, prior to releasing the turtle, in accordance with the protocols specified in this paragraph.


(*1*) *Preparation for hook removal.* Non-boated turtles should be brought close to the boat and provided with time to calm down. Then, it must be determined whether the hook can be removed without causing further injury. A front flipper or flippers of the turtle must be secured with an approved turtle control device from the list specified in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(M) of this section.


(*2*) *Hook removal protocol.* All externally embedded hooks must be removed, unless hook removal would result in further injury to the turtle. No attempt should be made to remove a hook if it has been swallowed, or if it is determined that removal would result in further injury. If the hook cannot be removed and/or if the animal is entangled, as much line as possible must be removed prior to release, using a line cutter as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i)(K) of this section. If the hook can be removed, it must be removed using a long-handled dehooker as required by paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section.


(*3*) *Gear removal.* Without causing further injury, as much gear and line as possible must be removed from the turtle prior to its release. Refer to the careful release protocols and handling/release guidelines required in this paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(C), and the handling and resuscitation requirements specified in 50 CFR 223.206(d)(1) for additional information.


(iii) *Gear modifications.* The following measures are required of vessel owners and operators to reduce the incidental capture and mortality of sea turtles:


(A) *Gangion length.* The length of any gangion on vessels that have pelagic longline gear on board and that have been issued, or are required to have, a swordfish, shark, or Atlantic Tunas Longline category LAP for use in the Atlantic Ocean including the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico must be at least 10 percent longer than any floatline length if the total length of any gangion plus the total length of any floatline is less than 100 meters.


(B) *Bait.* Vessels fishing outside of the NED, as defined at § 635.2, that have pelagic longline gear on board, and that have been issued or are required to be issued a LAP under this part, are limited, at all times, to possessing on board and/or using only whole finfish and/or squid bait except that if green-stick gear is also on board, artificial bait may be possessed, but may be used only with green-stick gear.


(C) *Hook size and type.* Vessels fishing outside of the NED, as defined at § 635.2, that have pelagic longline gear on board, and that have been issued or are required to be issued a LAP under this part are limited, at all times, to possessing on board and/or using only 16/0 or larger non-offset circle hooks or 18/0 or larger circle hooks with an offset not to exceed 10°. These hooks must meet the criteria listed in paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(C)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section. A limited exception for the possession and use of J-hooks when green-stick gear is on board is described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(C)(*4*) of this section.


(*1*) For the 18/0 or larger circle hooks with an offset not to exceed 10°, the outer diameter of an 18/0 circle hook at its widest point must be no smaller than 2.16 inches (55 mm), when measured with the eye of the hook on the vertical axis (y-axis) and perpendicular to the horizontal axis (x-axis). The distance between the hook point and the shank (*i.e.,* the gap) on an 18/0 circle hook must be no larger than 1.13 inches (28.8 mm). The allowable offset is measured from the barbed end of the hook, and is relative to the parallel plane of the eyed-end, or shank, of the hook when laid on its side. The only allowable offset circle hooks are those that are offset by the hook manufacturer.


(*2*) For the 16/0 or larger non-offset circle hooks, the outer diameter of a 16/0 circle hook at its widest point must be no smaller than 1.74 inches (44.3 mm), when measured with the eye of the hook on the vertical axis (y-axis) and perpendicular to the horizontal axis (x-axis). The distance between the hook point and the shank (*i.e.,* the gap) on a 16/0 circle hook must be no larger than 1.01 inches (25.8 mm).


(*3*) Between the months of January through June of any given calendar year in the Gulf of Mexico, all circle hooks must also be constructed of corrodible round wire stock that is no larger than 3.65 mm in diameter. For the purposes of this section, the Gulf of Mexico includes all waters of the U.S. EEZ west and north of the boundary stipulated at 50 CFR 600.105(c).


(*4*) If green-stick gear, as defined at § 635.2, is also on board, a vessel that has pelagic longline gear on board, may possess up to 20 J-hooks. J-hooks may be used only with green-stick gear, and no more than 10 hooks may be used at one time with each green-stick gear. J-hooks used with green-stick gear may be no smaller than 1.5 inch (38.1 mm) when measured in a straight line over the longest distance from the eye to any other part of the hook.


(iv) *Approval of sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear.* NMFS will file with the Office of the Federal Register for publication an initial list of required sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear that NMFS has approved as meeting the minimum design standards specified under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section. Other devices proposed for use, such as line clippers or cutters or dehookers, as specified under paragraphs (c)(5)(i)(A) through (C), (G), and (H) through (K) of this section, must be approved as meeting the minimum design standards before being used. NMFS will examine new devices, as they become available, to determine if they meet the minimum design standards, and will file with the Office of the Federal Register for publication notification of any new devices that are approved as meeting the standards.


(6) The owner or operator of a vessel permitted or required to be permitted under this part and that has pelagic longline gear on board must undertake the following shark bycatch mitigation measures:


(i) *Handling and release requirements.* As safely as practicable, any hooked or entangled sharks that are not being retained must be released using dehookers or line clippers or cutters. If using a line clipper or cutter, the gangion must be cut so that less than three feet (91.4 cm) of line remains attached to the hook.


(ii) *Fleet communication and relocation protocol.* The owner or operator of any vessel that catches a dusky shark must, as quickly as practicable, broadcast the location of the dusky shark interaction over the radio to other fishing vessels in the surrounding area. Subsequent fishing sets by that vessel on that trip must be at least 1 nmi from the reported location of the dusky shark catch. Vessel owners and operators are encouraged to move the vessel further away than 1 nmi if conditions (*e.g.,* water temperature, depth, tide, etc.) indicate that moving a greater distance is warranted to avoid additional dusky shark interactions.
















(d) *Bottom longlines.* (1) If bottom longline gear is onboard a vessel issued a permit under this part, persons aboard that vessel may not fish or deploy any type of fishing gear in the following areas:


(i) The mid-Atlantic shark closed area from January 1 through July 31 each calendar year;


(ii) The areas designated at § 622.435(a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this chapter, year-round; and


(iii) The areas described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section, year-round.


(A) *Snowy Grouper Wreck.* Bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the following points: 33°25′ N. lat., 77°04.75′ W. long.; 33°34.75′ N. lat., 76°51.3′ W. long.; 33°25.5′ N. lat., 76°46.5′ W. long.; 33°15.75′ N. lat., 77°00.0′ W. long.; 33°25′ N. lat., 77°04.75′ W. long.


(B) *Northern South Carolina.* Bounded on the north by 32°53.5′ N. lat.; on the south by 32°48.5′ N. lat.; on the east by 78°04.75′ W. long.; and on the west by 78°16.75′ W. long.


(C) *Edisto.* Bounded on the north by 32°24′ N. lat.; on the south by 32°18.5′ N. lat.; on the east by 78°54.0′ W. long.; and on the west by 79°06.0′ W. long.


(D) *Charleston Deep Artificial Reef.* Bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the following points: 32°05.04′ N lat. 79°13.575′ W long.; 32°9.65′ N lat., 79°9.2′ W long.; 32°7.155′ N lat., 79°5.595′ W long.; 32°2.36′ N lat., 79°9.975′ W long.; 32°5.04′ N lat., 79°13.575′ W long.


(E) *Georgia.* Bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the following points: 31°43′ N. lat., 79°31′ W. long.; 31°43′ N. lat., 79°21′ W. long.; 31°34′ N. lat., 79°29′ W. long.; 31°34′ N. lat., 79°39′ W. long; 31°43′ N. lat., 79°31′ W. long.


(F) *North Florida.* Bounded on the north by 30°29′ N. lat.; on the south by 30°19′ N. lat.; on the east by 80°02′ W. long.; and on the west by 80°14′ W. long.


(G) *St. Lucie Hump.* Bounded on the north by 27°08′ N. lat.; on the south by 27°04′ N. lat.; on the east by 79°58′ W. long.; and on the west by 80°00′ W. long.


(H) *East Hump.* Bounded by rhumb lines connecting, in order, the following points: 24°36.5′ N. lat., 80°45.5′ W. long.; 24°32′ N. lat., 80°36′ W. long; 24°27.5′ N. lat., 80°38.5′ W. long; 24°32.5′ N. lat., 80°48′ W. long.; 24°36.5′ N. lat., 80°45.5′ W. long.




(2) The owner and operator of a vessel required to be permitted under this part and that has bottom longline gear on board must undertake the following bycatch mitigation measures:










(i) *Possession and use of required mitigation gear.* The equipment listed in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section must be carried on board and must be used to handle, release, and disentangle hooked or entangled sea turtles, prohibited sharks, or smalltooth sawfish in accordance with requirements specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.


(ii) *Handling and release requirements.* Sea turtle bycatch mitigation gear, as required by paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, must be used to disengage any hooked or entangled sea turtle as stated in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section. This mitigation gear should also be employed to disengage any hooked or entangled species of prohibited sharks as listed under heading D, Prohibited Sharks, of Table 1 of appendix A to this part, any hooked or entangled species of sharks that exceed the retention limits as specified in § 635.24(a), and any hooked or entangled smalltooth sawfish. In addition, if a smalltooth sawfish is caught, the fish should be kept in the water while maintaining water flow over the gills and the fish should be examined for research tags. All smalltooth sawfish must be released in a manner that will ensure maximum probability of survival, but without removing the fish from the water or any research tags from the fish.


(iii) *Fleet communication and relocation protocol.* The owner or operator of any vessel that catches a dusky shark must, as quickly as practicable, broadcast the location of the dusky shark interaction over the radio to other fishing vessels in the surrounding area. Subsequent fishing sets by that vessel on that trip must be at least 1 nmi from the reported location of the dusky shark catch. Vessel owners and operators are encouraged to move the vessel further away than 1 nmi if conditions (*e.g.,* water temperature, depth, tide, etc.) indicate that moving a greater distance is warranted to avoid additional dusky shark interactions.


(3) If a vessel issued or required to be issued a permit under this part is in a closed area designated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and has pelagic longline gear onboard, the vessel may not, at any time, possess or land any demersal species listed in Table 3 of Appendix A to this part in excess of 5 percent, by weight, of the total weight of pelagic and demersal species possessed or landed, that are listed in Tables 2 and 3 of Appendix A to this part.


(4) Vessels that have bottom longline gear on board and that have been issued, or are required to have been issued, a directed shark limited access permit under § 635.4(e) must have only circle hooks as defined at § 635.2 on board.


(5) If a vessel issued or required to be issued a permit under this part has bottom longline gear on board persons aboard that vessel are required to promptly release in a manner that causes the least harm, any shortfin mako shark that is alive at the time of haulback.


(e) *Rod and reel.* (1) Persons who have been issued or are required to be issued a permit under this part and who are participating in a “tournament,” as defined in § 635.2, that bestows points, prizes, or awards for Atlantic billfish must deploy only non-offset circle hooks when using natural bait or natural bait/artificial lure combinations, and may not deploy a J-hook or an offset circle hook in combination with natural bait or a natural bait/artificial lure combination.


(2) A person on board a vessel that has been issued or is required to be issued a permit with a shark endorsement under this part and who is participating in an HMS registered tournament that bestows points, prizes, or awards for Atlantic sharks must deploy only non-offset, corrodible circle hooks when fishing for, retaining, possessing, or landing sharks, except when fishing with flies or artificial lures.


(3) A person on board a vessel that has been issued or is required to be issued an HMS Angling permit with a shark endorsement or an HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a shark endorsement must deploy only non-offset, corrodible circle hooks when fishing for, retaining, possessing, or landing sharks, except when fishing with flies or artificial lures.


(f) *Gillnet.* (1) Persons fishing with gillnet gear must comply with the provisions implementing the Atlantic Large Whale Take Reduction Plan, the Bottlenose Dolphin Take Reduction Plan, the Harbor Porpoise Take Reduction Plan, and any other relevant Take Reduction Plan set forth in §§ 229.32 through 229.35 of this title. If a listed whale is taken, the vessel operator must cease fishing operations immediately and contact NMFS as required under part 229 of this title.


(2) While fishing with a drift gillnet, a vessel issued or required to be issued a Federal Atlantic commercial shark LAP and/or a Federal commercial smoothhound permit must conduct net checks at least every 2 hours to look for and remove any sea turtles, marine mammals, Atlantic sturgeon, or smalltooth sawfish, and the drift gillnet must remain attached to at least one vessel at one end, except during net checks. Smalltooth sawfish must not be removed from the water while being removed from the net.


(3) While fishing with a sink gillnet, vessels issued or required to be issued a Federal Atlantic commercial shark LAP and/or a Federal commercial smoothhound permit must limit the soak time of the sink gillnet gear to no more than 24 hours, measured from the time the sink gillnet first enters the water to the time it is completely removed from the water. Smalltooth sawfish must not be removed from the water while being removed from the net.


(4) No person may fish for sharks with a gillnet with a total length of 2.5 km or more. No vessel may have on board a gillnet with a total length of 2.5 km or more.


(5) *Fleet communication and relocation protocol.* The owner or operator of any vessel issued or required to be issued a Federal Atlantic commercial shark limited access permit that catches a dusky shark must, as quickly as practicable, broadcast the location of the dusky shark interaction over the radio to other fishing vessels in the surrounding area. Subsequent fishing sets by that vessel that trip must be at least 1 nmi from the reported location of the dusky shark catch. Vessel owners and operators are encouraged to move the vessel further away than 1 nmi if conditions (*e.g.,* water temperature, depth, tide, etc.) indicate that moving a greater distance is warranted to avoid additional dusky shark interactions.


(6) If a vessel issued or required to be issued a permit under this part has gillnet gear onboard, persons aboard that vessel are required to promptly release in a manner that causes the least harm any shortfin mako shark that is alive at the time of haulback.


(g) *Buoy gear.* Vessels utilizing buoy gear may not possess or deploy more than 35 floatation devices, and may not deploy more than 35 individual buoy gears per vessel. Buoy gear must be constructed and deployed so that the hooks and/or gangions are attached to the vertical portion of the mainline. Floatation devices may be attached to one but not both ends of the mainline, and no hooks or gangions may be attached to any floatation device or horizontal portion of the mainline. If more than one floatation device is attached to a buoy gear, no hook or gangion may be attached to the mainline between them. Individual buoy gears may not be linked, clipped, or connected together in any way. Buoy gears must be released and retrieved by hand. All deployed buoy gear must have some type of monitoring equipment affixed to it including, but not limited to, radar reflectors, beeper devices, lights, or reflective tape. If only reflective tape is affixed, the vessel deploying the buoy gear must possess on board an operable spotlight capable of illuminating deployed floatation devices. If a gear monitoring device is positively buoyant, and rigged to be attached to a fishing gear, it is included in the 35 floatation device vessel limit and must be marked appropriately.


(h) *Speargun fishing gear.* Speargun fishing gear may only be utilized when recreational fishing for Atlantic BAYS tunas and only from vessels issued either a valid HMS Angling or valid HMS Charter/Headboat permit. Persons fishing for Atlantic BAYS tunas using speargun gear, as specified in § 635.19, must be physically in the water when the speargun is fired or discharged, and may freedive, use SCUBA, or other underwater breathing devices. Only free-swimming BAYS tunas, not those restricted by fishing lines or other means, may be taken by speargun fishing gear. “Powerheads,” as defined at § 600.10 of this chapter, or any other explosive devices, may not be used to harvest or fish for BAYS tunas with speargun fishing gear.


(i) *Green-stick gear.* Green-stick gear may only be utilized when fishing from vessels issued a valid Atlantic Tunas General, Swordfish General Commercial, HMS Charter/Headboat, or Atlantic Tunas Longline category permit. The gear must be attached to the vessel, actively trolled with the mainline at or above the water's surface, and may not be deployed with more than 10 hooks or gangions attached.


(j) *Handline.* (1) A person on board a vessel that has been issued or is required to be issued a permit with a shark endorsement under this part and who is participating in an HMS registered tournament that bestows points, prizes, or awards for Atlantic sharks must deploy only non-offset, corrodible circle hooks when fishing for, retaining, possessing, or landing sharks, except when fishing with flies or artificial lures.


(2) A person on board a vessel that has been issued or is required to be issued an HMS Angling permit with a shark endorsement or a person on board a vessel with an HMS Charter/Headboat permit with a shark endorsement must deploy only non-offset, corrodible circle hooks when fishing for, retaining, possessing, or landing, except when fishing with flies or artificial lures.



---

[N] [79 FR 71594, Dec. 2, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 60567, Oct. 7, 2015; 80 FR 73145, Nov. 24, 2015; 81 FR 57806, Aug. 24, 2016; 82 FR 16507, Apr. 4, 2017; 83 FR 33154, July 17, 2018; 84 FR 5376, Feb. 21, 2019; 85 FR 18841, Apr. 2, 2020; 85 FR 65479, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 11324, Mar. 1, 2022; 87 FR 39382, July 1, 2022; 87 FR 60004, Oct. 3, 2022; 89 FR 85880, Oct. 29, 2024]




