# § 1656.20   Expenses for emergency medical care.

(a) Claims for payment of actual and reasonable expenses for emergency medical care, including hospitalization, of ASWs who suffer illness or injury, and the transportation and burial of the remains of ASWs who suffer death as a direct result of such illness or injury will be paid in accordance with the provisions of this section.


(b) The term “emergency medical care, including hospitalization”, as used in this section, means such medical care or hospitalization that normally must be rendered promptly after occurrence of the illness or injury necessitating such treatment. Discharge by a physician or facility subsequent to such medical care or hospitalization shall terminate the period of emergency.


(c) Claims will be considered only for expenses:


(1) For which only the ASW is liable and for which there is no legal liability for his reimbursement except in accord with the provisions of this section; and


(2) That are incurred as a result of illness or injury that occurs while the ASW is acting in accord with orders of Selective Service to engage in travel or perform work for his Alternative Service employer.


(d) No claim shall be allowed in any case in which the Director determines that the injury, illness, or death occurred because of the negligence or misconduct of the ASW.


(e) No claim shall be paid unless it is presented to the Director within one year after the date on which the expense was incurred.


(f) Cost of emergency medical care including hospitalization greater than usual and customary fees for service established by the Social Security Administration, will *prima facie* be considered unreasonable. Payment for burial expenses shall not exceed the maximum that the Administrator of Veteran's Affairs may pay under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 902(a) in any one case.


(g) Payment of claims when allowed shall be made only directly to the ASW or his estate unless written authorization of the ASW or the personal representative of his estate has been received to pay another person. 




