# ยง 2700.69   Decision of the Judge.

(a) *Form and content of the Judge's decision.* The Judge shall make a decision that constitutes his final disposition of the proceedings. The decision shall be in writing and shall include all findings of fact and conclusions of law, and the reasons or bases for them, on all the material issues of fact, law or discretion presented by the record, and an order. If a decision is announced orally from the bench, it shall be reduced to writing after the filing of the transcript. An order by a Judge approving a settlement proposal is a decision of the Judge. 


(b) *Termination of the Judge's jurisdiction.* Except to the extent otherwise provided herein, the jurisdiction of the Judge terminates when his decision has been issued.


(c) *Correction of clerical errors.* At any time before the Commission has directed that a Judge's decision be reviewed, and on his own motion or the motion of a party, the Judge may correct clerical errors in decisions, orders or other parts of the record. After the Commission has directed that a Judge's decision be reviewed, the Judge may correct such errors with the leave of the Commission. If a Judge's decision has become the final order of the Commission, the Judge may correct such errors with the leave of the Commission. Neither the filing of a motion to correct a clerical error, nor the issuance of an order or amended decision correcting a clerical error, shall toll the time for filing a petition for discretionary review of the Judge's decision on the merits.


(d) *Effect of decision of Judge.* A decision of a Judge is not a precedent binding upon the Commission.



---

[N] [58 FR 12164, Mar. 3, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 44209, Aug. 4, 2006; 72 FR 2192, Jan. 18, 2007]




