# ยง 1806.3   Coverage requirements.

The County Supervisor should encourage the borrower for his own protection to insure for their depreciated replacement value (actual cash value) all essential buildings. Essential buildings include the dwelling and any other buildings that are necessary for the operation of the property or that provide income to assure orderly repayment of the loan. If insurance is for less than the depreciated replacement value of all essential buildings, the County Supervisor will see that the coverage is obtained on one or more of the most essential buildings. The minimum amount of coverage will be furnished as prescribed below: 


(a) *Loans secured by a first lien.* (1) When the unpaid balance of the Agency loan secured by a first lien is equal to or greater than the depreciated replacement value of the essential buildings, or the cost of adequate essential buildings which can be constructed for amounts less than the depreciated replacement value of the existing buildings, the essential buildings will be insured, to the nearest multiple of insurance that is available, for the lesser of (i) their depreciated replacement value, or (ii) the cost of constructing adequate essential buildings. For example, if insurance is available in only multiples of $1,000, the minimum insurance required on an essential building valued at $6,600 would be $7,000, and that required on an essential building valued at $6,400 would be $6,000. 


(2) When the unpaid balance of the loan is less than the sum of the depreciated replacement value of the essential buildings to be insured, the total amount of insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of (i) the unpaid balance of the loan, or (ii) the cost of adequate essential buildings which can be constructed for amounts less than the depreciated replacement value of the existing buildings to be insured. 


(3) When, by the use of loan funds or otherwise, buildings are erected or substantial improvements are made to essential buildings, the amount of insurance will be adjusted in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section, whichever is applicable. 


(b) *Loans secured by other than first liens.* The amount of insurance on buildings in the case of Agency loans secured by other than a first lien will be the same as required in paragraph (a) of this section, with the understanding that the unpaid balance of the loan will be deemed for this purpose to be the amount of the total real estate mortgage indebtedness owed all prior mortgagees named in the mortgage clause, plus the debt to the Agency which is secured by real estate mortgage. 


(c) *Exception of buildings from insurance.* (1) Insurance will not be required on a building: 


(i) That is not essential. 


(ii) In such a state of disrepair that the cost of insurance would be prohibitive. 


(iii) Which has a depreciated replacement value of $2,500 or less. 


(iv) Which is being or has been repaired with a section 504 loan of $7,500 or less. Families receiving section 504 loans should be encouraged but not required to carry insurance on their home.


(v) On LH security property which was not built or repaired with Agency loan funds provided that the State Director determines that the land and other structures adequately secure the Agency loan and any prior liens. 


(vi) On which the hazards are so slight because of the character and construction of the building, or the cost of the insurance is so high in comparison with the value of the building that, according to common standards of judgment, it should not be insured, including but not limited to windmills, silos, and fire-cured tobacco barns. 


(vii) In cases where the unpaid balance of the Agency loans and any prior liens have been reduced to $2,500 or less, property insurance need not be required if the borrower wants to discontinue it, provided the County Supervisor determines that the value of the land security itself is sufficient to protect the Agency in its collection of the amount of the outstanding indebtedness. 


(viii) If insurance for windstorm and hail to meet all Agency requirements is not available in a hurricane area, the County Supervisor may accept from the borrower or applicant the windstorm and hail insurance policy that most nearly conforms to Agency requirements. If such an exception is made, the situation should be fully documented in the borrower's case file. However, if the best insurance policy a borrower or applicant can obtain at the time he receives a loan contains a loss deductible clause for windstorm and hail damage exceeding $250 or 10 percent of the actual cash value of the buildings, whichever amount is greater, the insurance policy, with an explanation of the reasons why more adequate insurance is not available will be submitted to the State Office for prior approval. 


(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [41 FR 34571, Aug. 16, 1976, as amended at 56 FR 6945, Feb. 21, 1991; 80 FR 9865, Feb. 24, 2015]




