# ยง 5001.453   Issuance of the loan note guarantee.

The Agency, at its sole discretion, will determine if the conditions specified in the conditional commitment have been met and whether to issue the loan note guarantee.


(a) *Issuance.* When the Agency is satisfied that all of the conditions specified in the conditional commitment have been met and it receives all the required fees plus the executed lender's agreement from the lender, the Agency will issue the documents identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, as appropriate.


(1) *Loan note guarantee.* The Agency will provide the lender the original loan note guarantee document which the lender must attach to the promissory note. If the lender elected to use the multi-note system, the Agency will issue one loan note guarantee for the set of promissory notes.


(2) *Assignment guarantee agreement.* If the lender assigns any guaranteed portion of a guaranteed loan to a holder, the lender, holder, and the Agency will execute an assignment guarantee agreement for each assignment.


(3) *Certificate of incumbency and signature.* The Agency will provide the holder an executed certificate of incumbency form to verify the signature and title of the Agency official who signed the assignment guarantee agreement.


(b) *Agency review of closing.* The Agency will review the closing documents submitted by the lender for completeness and if all conditions have been met and all documents have been provided, the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee. If the Agency determines that it cannot issue the loan note guarantee, the Agency will notify the lender, in writing, of the reasons and give the lender a reasonable period within which to satisfy the objections. If the lender satisfies the objections within the time allowed, the Agency will issue the loan note guarantee.


(c) *Cancellation of obligation.* A lender can submit a written request to the Agency for a partial cancellation. The lender must include in this request the reason for the partial cancellation, the effective date, and the portion to be canceled. If the Agency conditions for issuance of the loan note guarantee are rejected, cannot be met or funds are, in whole or in part, no longer needed, the Agency will cancel the obligation.



---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 85 FR 62198, Oct. 2, 2020]




