# § 1010.117   Cost sheet, signature of Senior Executive Officer.

(a) *Cost sheet—Format.* (1) The cost sheet shall be prepared in accordance with the format found in section XXVI of the appendix to this part: Cost Sheet Format and paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Cost sheet instructions.* (i) All amounts for cost sheet items will be entered before the purchaser signs the receipt. However, any costs that are identical for all lots may be pre-printed.


(ii) If a central water or sewer system will be used in all or part of the subdivision and a private system in all or other parts, then the portion that does not apply to the purchaser's lot shall be crossed out.


(iii) If individual private systems may be used prior to the availability of service from any central system and the purchaser is not required to connect to any central system, both figures may be entered or only the highest cost figures may be used with a parenthetical explanation or footnote. If the purchaser is required to connect to any central system and discontinue the use of his private system when central service is available, both cost figures shall be given, together with an explanation or footnote.


(iv) If there is a one time, lump sum “availability fee” which is assessed to the purchaser in connection with a central utility, include under “other” and identify.


(v) Dues and assessments need be included only if they are involuntary regardless of use.


(vi) At the discretion of the Director, where there is extreme diversity in the figures for different areas of the subdivision, variations may be permitted as to whether the figures will be printed, entered manually, or a range of costs used or any combination of these features.


(vii) The estimated annual taxes shall be based upon the projected valuation of the lot after sale to a purchaser.


(b) *Signature of the Senior Executive Officer.* The Senior Executive Officer or a duly authorized agent shall sign the property report. Facsimile signatures may be used for purposes of reproduction of the property report.




