# ยง 1090.215   Gasoline RVP standards.

Except as specified in subpart G of this part and paragraph (c) of this section, all gasoline designated as summer gasoline or located at any location in the United States during the summer season is subject to a maximum RVP per-gallon standard in this section.


(a)(1) *Federal 9.0 psi maximum RVP per-gallon standard.* Gasoline designated as summer gasoline or located at any location in the United States during the summer season must meet a maximum RVP per-gallon standard of 9.0 psi unless the gasoline is subject to one of the lower maximum RVP per-gallon standards specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section.


(2) *Federal 7.8 maximum RVP per-gallon standard.* Gasoline designated as 7.8 psi summer gasoline, or located in the following areas during the summer season, must meet a maximum RVP per-gallon standard of 7.8 psi:


(3) *RFG maximum RVP per-gallon standard.* Gasoline designated as Summer RFG or located in an RFG covered area during the summer season must meet a maximum RVP per-gallon standard of 7.4 psi.


(4) *California gasoline.* Gasoline designated as California gasoline or used in areas subject to the California reformulated gasoline regulations must comply with those regulations under Title 13, California Code of Regulations, sections 2250-2273.5.


(5) *SIP-controlled gasoline.* Gasoline designated as SIP-controlled gasoline or used in areas subject to a SIP-approved state fuel rule that requires an RVP of less than 9.0 psi must meet the requirements of the federally approved SIP.


(b) *Ethanol 1.0 psi waiver.* (1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, any gasoline subject to a federal 9.0 psi or 7.8 psi maximum RVP per-gallon standard in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section is not in violation of this section if its RVP does not exceed the applicable standard by more than 1.0 psi.


(2) To qualify for the special regulatory treatment specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, gasoline must meet the applicable RVP per-gallon standard in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section prior to the addition of ethanol and must contain ethanol at a concentration of at least 9 volume percent and no more than 10 volume percent.










(3)(i) RFG and SIP-controlled gasoline that does not allow for the ethanol 1.0 psi waiver does not qualify for the special regulatory treatment specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(ii) Gasoline subject to the 9.0 psi maximum RVP per-gallon standard in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in the following areas is excluded from the special regulatory treatment specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section:


(c) *Exceptions.* The RVP per-gallon standard in paragraph (a) of this section for the area in which the gasoline is located does not apply to that gasoline if the person(s) who produced, imported, sold, offered for sale, distributed, offered to distribute, supplied, offered for supply, dispensed, stored, transported, or introduced the gasoline into commerce can demonstrate one of the following:


(1) The gasoline is designated as winter gasoline and was not sold, offered for sale, supplied, offered for supply, dispensed, or introduced into commerce for use during the summer season and was not delivered to any retail station or WPC during the summer season.


(2) The gasoline is designated as summer gasoline for use in an area other than the area in which it is located and was not sold, offered for sale, supplied, offered for supply, dispensed, or introduced into commerce in the area in which the gasoline is located. In this case, the standard that applies to the gasoline is the standard applicable to the area for which the gasoline is designated.





---

[N] [85 FR 78469, Dec. 4, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 14774, Feb. 29, 2024]






