# ยง 224.2   Dismissal for unsuitability.

(a) *Review by Copyright Claims Attorney.* During the compliance review under ยง 224.1, the Copyright Claims Attorney shall review the claim or counterclaim for unsuitability on grounds set forth in 17 U.S.C. 1506(f)(3). If the Copyright Claims Attorney concludes that the claim should be dismissed for unsuitability, the Copyright Claims Attorney shall recommend to the Board that the Board dismiss the claim and shall set forth the basis for that conclusion.


(b) *Dismissal by the Board for unsuitability.* (1) If, upon recommendation by a Copyright Claims Attorney as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section or at any other time in the proceeding upon the request of a party or on its own initiative, the Board determines that a claim or counterclaim should be dismissed for unsuitability under 17 U.S.C. 1506(f)(3), the Board shall issue an order stating its intention to dismiss the claim without prejudice.


(2) Within 30 days following issuance of an order under paragraph (b) of this section, the claimant or counterclaimant may request that the Board reconsider its determination of unsuitability. If the proceeding is active, the respondent or counterclaim respondent may file a response within 30 days following filing of the claimant's request. A request or response made under this paragraph shall not exceed 7 pages and shall meet the requirements set forth in ยง 220.5(b) of this subchapter.


(3) Following the expiration of the time for the respondent or counterclaim respondent to submit a response, the Board shall render its final decision whether to dismiss the claim for unsuitability.




(c) *Request by a party to dismiss a claim or counterclaim for unsuitability.* At any time, any party who believes that a claim or counterclaim is unsuitable for determination by the Board may file a request providing the basis for such belief. An opposing party may file a response within 14 days setting forth the basis for such opposition to the request. A request or response made under this paragraph shall meet the requirements set forth in ยง 220.5(a)(2) of this subchapter.



---

[N] [87 FR 17007, Mar. 25, 2022, as amended at 87 FR 30081, May 17, 2022; 87 FR 77521, Dec. 19, 2022]




