# ยง 998.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Administration* means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).


*Administrator* means the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA Administrator.


*ADSO* means active duty service obligation.


*Chain of command* means the succession of commanding officers from a superior to a subordinate through which command is exercised, and the succession of officers or civilian personnel through whom administrative control is exercised, including supervision and rating of performance.


*Civilian training and advanced education* means education or training above the secondary school level but does not include technical training (such as maritime and aviation training provided to a member to qualify such member to perform a specified military or operational function), workshops, or short-term training programs.


*Director* means the Director of NOAA Corps and the Office of Marine and Aviation Operations.


*Officer candidate* means an individual who is enrolled in the basic officer training program of the Administration and is under consideration for appointment as an officer under the appointment authority for graduates of the basic officer training program of the commissioned officer corps of the Administration (33 U.S.C. 3021(a)(2)(A)).


*NOAA Corps* means the commissioned officer corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce.


*Written agreement* means an agreement entered into between the Secretary and a NOAA Corps officer or officer candidate that describes the officer's obligated service requirements in return for appointments, training, promotions, separations, continuations, and retirements as the Secretary considers appropriate.




