# ยง 5.23   Response to notice.

(a) *Comments and reply comments.* Comments, protests, interventions, recommendations, and preliminary terms and conditions or preliminary fishway prescriptions must be filed no later than 60 days after the notice of acceptance and ready for environmental analysis. All reply comments must be filed within 105 days of that notice. 


(b) *Water quality certification.* (1) With regard to certification requirements under section 401(a)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act), the license applicant shall file within 60 days from the date of issuance of the notice of ready for environmental analysis:


(i) A copy of the water quality certification or the certifying authority's express waiver;


(ii) A copy of the request for certification, including proof of the date on which the certifying authority received the request; or


(iii) Evidence of waiver of water quality certification as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(2) A certifying authority is deemed to have waived the certification requirements of section 401(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act if the certifying authority has not denied, expressly waived, or granted certification by one year after the date the certifying authority received a written request for certification. If a certifying authority denies certification, the applicant must file a copy of the denial within 30 days after the applicant received it. 



---

[N] [Order 2002, 68 FR 51121, Aug. 25, 2003, as amended at 89 FR 96530, Dec. 5, 2024]




