# ยง 2400.8   Limitations on delegation of original classification authority.

(a) The Director, OSTP is the only official authorized to delegate original classification authority.


(b) Delegations of original classification authority shall be held to an absolute minimum.


(c) Delegations of original classification authority shall be limited to the level of classification required.


(d) Original classification authority shall not be delegated to OSTP personnel who only quote, restate, extract or paraphrase, or summarize classified information or who only apply classification markings derived from source material or as directed by a classification guide.


(e) The Executive Director, OSTP, shall maintain a current listing of persons or positions receiving any delegation of original classification authority. If possible, this listing shall be unclassified.


(f) Original classification authority may not be redelegated.


(g) *Exceptional Cases.* When an employee, contractor, licensee, or grantee of OSTP that does not have original classification authority originates information believed by that person to require classification, the information shall be protected in a manner consistent with these Regulations as provided in ยง 2400.6(d) of this part. The information shall be transmitted promptly as provided in these Regulations to the official in OSTP who has appropriate subject matter interest and classification authority with respect to this information. That official shall decide within thirty (30) days whether to classify this information. If the information is not within OSTP's area of classification responsibility, OSTP shall promptly transmit the information to the responsible agency. If it is not clear which agency has classification responsibility for this information, it shall be sent to the Director of the Information Security Oversight Office. The Director shall determine the agency having primary subject matter interest and forward the information, with appropriate recommendations, to that agency for a classification determination.




