# ยง 343.90   Dissolution and drug release testing.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Aspirin capsules.* Aspirin capsules must meet the dissolution standard for aspirin capsules as contained in the United States Pharmacopeia (USP) 23 at page 132.


(c) *Aspirin delayed-release capsules and aspirin delayed-release tablets.* Aspirin delayed-release capsules and aspirin delayed-release tablets must meet the drug release standard for aspirin delayed-release capsules and aspirin delayed-release tablets as contained in USP 23 at pages 133 and 136 respectively.


(d) *Aspirin tablets.* Aspirin tablets must meet the dissolution standard for aspirin tablets as contained in USP 23 at page 134.


(e) *Aspirin, alumina, and magnesia tablets.* Aspirin in combination with alumina and magnesia in a tablet dosage form must meet the dissolution standard for aspirin, alumina, and magnesia tablets as contained in USP 23 at page 138.


(f) *Aspirin, alumina, and magnesium oxide tablets.* Aspirin in combination with alumina, and magnesium oxide in a tablet dosage form must meet the dissolution standard for aspirin, alumina, and magnesium tablets as contained in USP 23 at page 139.


(g) *Aspirin effervescent tablets for oral solution.* Aspirin effervescent tablets for oral solution must meet the dissolution standard for aspirin effervescent tablets for oral solution as contained in USP 23 at page 137.


(h) *Buffered aspirin tablets.* Buffered aspirin tablets must meet the dissolution standard for buffered aspirin tablets as contained in USP 23 at page 135.




