# ยง 1792.103   Seismic design and construction standards for new buildings.

(a) In the design and construction of federally assisted buildings, the borrowers and grant recipients must utilize the seismic provisions of the most recent edition of those standards and practices that are substantially equivalent to or exceed the seismic safety level in the 2000 edition of the NEHRP Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulation for New Buildings.


(b) Each of the following model codes or standards provides a level of seismic safety substantially equivalent to that provided by the 2000 NEHRP Recommended Provisions and are appropriate for federally assisted new building construction:


(1) *2003 NFPA 5000 Building Construction and Safety Code.* Copies of the book are available from the NFPA (National Fire Protection Association), 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269-7471. Telephone: (617) 770-3000. Fax: (617) 770-0700.


(2) 2002 American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) 7, *Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures.* Copies are available from the American Society of Civil Engineers, Publications Marketing Department, 1801 Alexander Bell Drive, Reston, VA 20191-4400. E-mail: *marketing@asce.org.* Telephone: (800) 548-2723. Fax: (703) 295-6211.


(3) *2003 International Code Council (ICC) International Building Code (IBC).* Copies of the book or CD-ROM are available from the International Conference of Building Officials, 4051 West Flossmoor Rd., Country Club Hill, IL 60478. Telephone: (800) 786-4452. Fax: (800) 214-7167.


(c) The NEHRP Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for New Buildings is available from the Office of Earthquakes and Natural Hazards, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20472.



---

[N] [69 FR 23642, Apr. 30, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 60658, Oct. 16, 2006]




