# § 177.1030   Acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene/methyl methacrylate copolymer.

Acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene/methyl methacrylate copolymer identified in this section may be safely used as an article or component of articles intended for use with food identified in table 1 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter as Type I, II, III, IVA, IVB, V, VIB, (except bottles intended to hold carbonated beverages), VIIA, VIIB, VIII and IX, under conditions of use C, D, E, F, and G described in table 2 of § 176.170(c) of this chapter with a high temperature limitation of 190 °F.


(a) *Identity.* For the purpose of this section, acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene/methyl methacrylate copolymer consists of: (1) 73 to 79 parts by weight of a matrix polymer containing 64 to 69 parts by weight of acrylonitrile, 25 to 30 parts by weight of styrene and 4 to 6 parts by weight of methyl methacrylate; and (2) 21 to 27 parts by weight of a grafted rubber consisting of (i) 16 to 20 parts of butadiene/styrene/elastomer containing 72 to 77 parts by weight of butadiene and 23 to 28 parts by weight of styrene and (ii) 5 to 10 parts by weight of a graft polymer having the same composition range as the matrix polymer.


(b) *Adjuvants.* The copolymer identified in paragraph (a) of this section may contain adjuvant substances required in its production. Such adjuvants may include substances generally recognized as safe in food, substances used in accordance with prior sanction, substances permitted under applicable regulations in this part, and the following:


(c) *Specifications.* (1) Nitrogen content of the copolymer is in the range of 13.0 to 16.0 percent as determined by Micro-Kjeldahl analysis.


(2) Residual acrylonitrile monomer content of the finished copolymer articles is not more than 11 parts per million as determined by a gas chromatographic method titled “Determination of Residual Acrylonitrile and Styrene Monomers-Gas Chromatographic Internal Standard Method,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(d) *Extractive limitations.* (1) Total nonvolatile extractives not to exceed 0.0005 milligram per square inch surface area of the food-contact article when exposed to distilled water, 3 percent acetic acid, 50 percent ethanol, and *n-*heptane for 10 days at 120 °F.


(2) The finished food-contact article shall yield not more than 0.0025 milligram per square inch of acrylonitrile monomer when exposed to distilled water, 3 percent acetic acid and *n-*heptane at 190 °F for 2 hours, cooled to 120 °F (80 to 90 minutes) and maintained at 120 °F for 10 days when analyzed by a polarographic method titled “Extracted Acrylonitrile by Differential Pulse Polarography,” which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS-200), Food and Drug Administration, 5001 Campus Dr., College Park, MD 20740, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(e) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section shall comply with the provisions of § 180.22 of this chapter.


(f) Acrylonitrile copolymers identified in this section are not authorized to be used to fabricate beverage containers.



---

[N] [42 FR 14572, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 42 FR 48543, Sept. 23, 1977; 47 FR 11841, Mar. 19, 1982; 54 FR 24898, June 12, 1989]




