# § 522.1884   Prednisolone sodium succinate.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of prednisolone sodium succinate injection contains: Prednisolone sodium succinate equivalent in activity to 10, 20, or 50 milligrams (mg) of prednisolone.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter for products containing 10, 20, and 50 mg equivalent prednisolone activity per milliliter for use in horses, dogs, and cats as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Amount and indications for use*—(i) *Horses.* Administer 50 to 100 mg as an initial dose by intravenous injection over a period of one-half to 1 minute, or by intramuscular injection, and may be repeated in inflammatory, allergic, or other stress conditions at intervals of 12, 24, or 48 hours, depending upon the size of the animal, the severity of the condition and the response to treatment.


(ii) *Dogs.* Administer by intravenous injection at a range of 2.5 to 5 mg per pound of body weight as an initial dose followed by maintenance doses at 1, 3, 6, or 10 hour intervals, as determined by the condition of the animal, for treatment of shock.


(iii) *Dogs and cats.* Administer by intramuscular injection for treatment of inflammatory, allergic, and less severe stress conditions, where immediate effect is not required, at 1 to 5 mg ranging upward to 30 to 50 mg in large breeds of dogs. Dosage may be repeated in 12 to 24 hours and continued for 3 to 5 days if necessary. If permanent corticosteroid effect is required, oral therapy with prednisolone tablets may be substituted.


(2) *Limitations.* Do not use in horses intended for human consumption. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [79 FR 16194, Mar. 25, 2014]








