# § 91.326   Exception to operating certain aircraft for the purposes of flight training, flightcrew member checking, or flightcrew member testing.

(a) *General.* Notwithstanding the prohibitions in §§  91.315, 91.319(a), and 91.325, a person may conduct flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft under the provisions of this section.


(b) *Operations requiring a letter of deviation authority.* Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, no person may conduct flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category or experimental aircraft without deviation authority issued under this paragraph (b).


(1) No person may operate under this section without a letter of deviation authority (LODA) issued by the Administrator.


(2) The FAA may deny an application for a letter of deviation authority if it determines the deviation would not be in the interest of safety or is unnecessary. The FAA may cancel or amend a letter of deviation authority if it determines that the deviation holder has failed to comply with the conditions and limitations or at any time if the Administrator determines that the deviation is no longer necessary or in the interest of safety.


(3) An applicant must submit a request for deviation authority in a form and manner acceptable to the Administrator at least 60 days before the date of intended operations. A request for deviation authority must contain a complete description of the proposed operation that establishes a level of safety equivalent to that provided under the regulations for the deviation requested, including:


(i) A letter identifying the name and address of the applicant;


(ii) The name and contact information of the individual with ultimate responsibility for operations authorized under the deviation authority;


(iii) Specific aircraft make(s), model(s), registration number(s), and serial number(s) to be used;


(iv) Copies of each aircraft's airworthiness certificate, including the FAA-issued operating limitations, if applicable;


(v) Ejection seat information, if applicable;


(vi) A detailed training program that demonstrates the proposed activities will meet the intended training objectives;


(vii) A description of the applicant's process to determine whether a trainee has a specific need for formation or aerobatic training, or training leading to the issuance of an endorsement, if those types of training are being requested; and


(viii) Any other information that the Administrator deems necessary to evaluate the application.


(4) The holder of a letter of deviation authority must comply with any conditions and limitations provided in that letter of deviation authority. Unless otherwise authorized by the Administrator, the deviation authority will include the following conditions and limitations:


(i) The operator must use the aircraft-specific flight and ground training program for the training authorized by the letter of deviation authority. Demonstration flights, discovery flights, experience flights, and other flights not related to the training program are not authorized.


(ii) As appropriate to the aircraft being flown, all trainees must hold category and class ratings; a type rating, Authorized Experimental Aircraft authorization, or temporary Letter of Authorization; and endorsements listed in § 61.31 of this chapter, as appropriate, with the following exceptions:


(A) Persons receiving gyroplane training or training leading to the initial issuance of a sport pilot certificate or flight instructor certificate with a sport pilot rating in a low mass, high drag aircraft with an empty weight less than 650 pounds and a V_H_ ≤87 Knots Calibrated Airspeed (KCAS) are not required to hold category or class ratings. For training leading to an endorsement for additional sport pilot privileges, the pilot receiving the training must hold at least a sport pilot certificate with appropriate category and class ratings and endorsements issued under § 61.31 of this chapter, as appropriate.


(B) Persons with a specific need to receive training toward the issuance of an endorsement are not required to hold the § 61.31 of this chapter endorsement sought. Any endorsements being provided must be authorized in the LODA.


(C) Persons receiving jet unusual attitude and upset recovery training, limited category type rating training, or authorized experimental aircraft authorization training, if required for the type of aircraft being flown, are not required to hold the applicable type rating, authorized experimental authorization rating, or a temporary Letter of Authorization prior to the commencement of training.


(D) For ultralight-style training, the person receiving training is not required to meet category and class ratings or § 61.31 of this chapter endorsement requirements. However, if the flight training includes a solo flight segment, this does not relieve the person receiving training from the requirements of part 61, subpart C, of this chapter. This training is limited to a low mass, high drag aircraft with an empty weight less than 650 pounds and a maximum speed in level flight with maximum continuous power less than 87 KCAS.


(iii) If the aircraft is equipped with ejection seats and systems, such systems must be rigged, maintained, and inspected in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. Before providing training in aircraft equipped with operable ejection systems, whether armed or not armed, all aircraft occupants must complete a course of ejection seat training.


(iv) When conducting spin and upset training, the operator must maintain a minimum recovery altitude of 6,000 feet above ground level unless the Administrator authorizes a lower altitude.


(v) A copy of the LODA must be carried on board the aircraft during flight training conducted under the LODA.


(vi) The LODA holder must keep a record of the training given for a period of 36 calendar months from the completion date of the training. The authorized instructor must sign the trainee's training record certifying that the flight training or ground training was given. The training record must include the following:


(A) The name and certificate number (if applicable) of the trainee;


(B) The name, signature, and certificate number of the instructor;


(C) The date trained;


(D) The training received;


(E) The trainee's specific need for training, if applicable.


(vii) Notwithstanding § 43.1(b) of this chapter or § 91.409(c)(1), all aircraft must:


(A) Except for turbine powered or large aircraft, within the preceding 100 hours of time in service, have received an annual, 100-hour, or condition inspection equivalent to the scope and detail of appendix D to part 43 of this chapter and been approved for return to service in accordance with part 43. The 100-hour limitation may be exceeded by not more than 10 hours while enroute to reach a place where the inspection can be done. The excess time used to reach a place where the inspection can be done must be included in computing the next 100 hours of time in service; or


(B) Except for turbine powered or large aircraft, be inspected in accordance with an FAA-approved inspection program that includes provisions for ensuring continued airworthiness and recording the current status on life-limited parts and in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.


(C) For turbine-powered or large aircraft, be inspected in accordance with an FAA-approved inspection program that meets the scope and detail of the requirements of § 91.409(e), (f)(4), and (g) for ensuring continued airworthiness and recording time remaining on life-limited parts in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.


(viii) Notwithstanding any exception due to the experimental airworthiness certification of the aircraft, LODA holders with experimental aircraft must comply with FAA Airworthiness Directives applicable to any corresponding make or model aircraft holding a different type of airworthiness certificate or applicable to any article installed on the aircraft. The LODA holder must evaluate the aircraft and its articles to determine if compliance with the FAA Airworthiness Directive is necessary for the continued safe operation of the aircraft. LODA holders must keep a maintenance record entry of those FAA Airworthiness Directives evaluated. For those FAA Airworthiness Directives for which the LODA holder determined compliance was necessary for the continued safe operation of the aircraft, the record must also include the method of compliance, and if the FAA Airworthiness Directive requires recurring action, the time and date when the next action is required.


(5) Only the following persons may be on board the aircraft during operations conducted under the deviation authority:


(i) The authorized instructor, designated examiner, person receiving flight training or being checked or tested, or persons essential for the safe operation of the aircraft; and


(ii) Notwithstanding any operating limitation applicable under § 91.9(a) that prohibits the carriage of passengers for compensation or hire, up to two persons enrolled in a LODA training course for the same aircraft may observe the flight training from a forwardmost observer seat with an unobstructed view of the flight deck, provided carriage of those persons is not prohibited by any other regulation.


(6) The Administrator may limit the types of training, testing, and checking authorized under this deviation authority. Training, testing, and checking under this deviation authority must be conducted consistent with the training program submitted for FAA review.


(c) *Operations not requiring a letter of deviation authority.* The following operations may be conducted without a letter of deviation authority.


(1) An authorized instructor, registered owner, lessor, or lessee of an aircraft is not required to obtain a letter of deviation authority from the Administrator to allow, conduct, or receive flight training, checking, or testing in a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft if—


(i) The authorized instructor is not providing both the training and the aircraft;


(ii) No person advertises or broadly offers the aircraft as available for flight training, checking, or testing; and


(iii) No person receives compensation for the use of the aircraft for any flight during which flight training, checking, or testing was received, other than expenses for owning, operating, and maintaining the aircraft. Compensation for the use of the aircraft for profit is prohibited.


(2) A person may operate a limited category aircraft, experimental aircraft, or primary category aircraft to conduct flight training, checking, or testing without a letter of deviation authority if no person provides and no person receives compensation for the flight training, checking, or testing, or for the use of the aircraft.


(d) *Previously issued letters of deviation authority.* For deviation authority issued under § 91.319 prior to December 2, 2024, the following requirements apply—


(1) The deviation holder may continue to operate under the letter of deviation authority until December 1, 2026;


(2) The deviation holder must continue to comply with the conditions and limitations in the letter of deviation authority when conducting an operation under the letter of deviation authority in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section;


(3) The letter of deviation authority may be cancelled or amended at any time; and


(4) The letter of deviation authority terminates on December 1, 2026.



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2023-1351; Amdt. No. 91-378, 89 FR 80341, Oct. 2, 2024]






