# ยง 1902.6   Establishing supervised bank accounts.

(a) Each borrower will be given an opportunity to choose the financial institution in which the supervised bank account will be established, provided the financial institution is a member of the FDIC or NCUA, as applicable.


(b) When accounts are established, it should be determined that:


(1) The financial institution is fully informed concerning the provisions of the applicable deposit agreement,


(2) Agreements are reached with respect to the services to be provided by the financial institution including the frequency and method of transmittal of checking account statements, and


(3) An agreement is reached with the financial institution regarding the place where the counter-signature will be on the checks.


(c) When possible, Servicing Officials will make arrangements with financial institutions to waive service charges in connection with supervised bank accounts. However, there is no objection to the payment by the borrower of a reasonable charge for such service.


(d) For each borrower, if the amount of any loan and grant funds, plus any borrower contributions and funds from other sources to be deposited in the supervised bank account will exceed the maximum amount insurable by the Federal government, the financial institution will be required to pledge collateral for the excess over that limit before the deposit is made (see ยง 1902.7 of this subpart). If the supervised bank account is a joint account, any amount over the maximum amount insurable by the federal government must be collateralized.


(e) Only one supervised bank account will be established for any borrower regardless of the amount or source of funds, except for *Rural Rental Housing* loans where separate accounts will be established for each project.


(f) When a supervised bank account is established, an original and two copies of the applicable Deposit Agreement and the Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement (Exhibit B of this subpart), when applicable, will be executed by the borrower, the financial institution, and a Servicing Office employee. The original will be retained in the borrower's case file, one executed copy will be delivered to the financial institution and one executed copy to the borrower. An extra copy of the Interest-Bearing Deposit Agreement, when applicable, will be prepared and attached to the certificate, passbook, or other evidence of deposit representing the interest-bearing deposit.



---

[N] [46 FR 36106, July 14, 1981, as amended at 53 FR 231, Jan. 6, 1988; 70 FR 59227, Oct. 12, 2005; 77 FR 41258, July 13, 2012]




