# § 32.63   Utah.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of goose, duck, coot, and tundra swan on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 100 yards (90 meters (m)) of refuge roads, parking areas, and observation platforms.


(ii) We allow airboats only in Refuge Unit 9 and Block C.


(iii) We close for the spring and extended season goose hunts.


(iv) We prohibit archery hunting on the refuge.


(v) You may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal sunrise and must exit the refuge by 2 hours after legal sunset.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit hunting or taking of pheasants with a shotgun of any description capable of holding more than three shells, unless it is plugged with a one-piece filler incapable of removal without disassembling the gun so that its total capacity does not exceed three shells.


(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We open to fishing year-round.


(ii) You may fish only in designated areas west of the Auto Tour Road access gate from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(b) *Fish Springs National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of coot, duck, goose, mourning dove, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(ii) You may construct temporary blinds. You must remove all blinds constructed out of materials other than vegetation at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(iii) We allow the use of small boats (15 feet or less) when hunting. We prohibit gasoline motors and air boats.


(iv) You may enter the refuge 2 hours prior to legal sunrise and must exit the refuge by 1
1/2 hours after legal sunset.


(v) You must remove decoys, boats, vehicles, and other personal property from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) We have a special blind area for use by disabled hunters. We prohibit trespass for any reason by any individual not registered to use that area.


(2) *Upland game hunting.*We allow hunting of chukar, desertcottontail rabbit, and mountaincottontail rabbit on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We close to hunting on the last day of the State waterfowl season.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs when hunting.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of mule deer and pronghorn antelope on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We only allow archery equipment when hunting big game.


(4) [Reserved]


(c) *Ouray National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, coot, sandhill crane, and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: During hunting season, the refuge is open from 1
1/2 hours before legal sunrise to 1
1/2 hours after legal sunset.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of pheasant and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may possess only approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)) while hunting turkey in the field.


(ii) We allow turkey hunting for youth hunters only.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer, pronghorn, and elk on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must remove all tree stands and blinds no later than the last day of the hunting season for which you have a permit (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow any-legal-weapon elk hunting for youth, disabled, and depredation pool hunters during State seasons.


(iii) We close for the general any-legal-weapon (rifle) and muzzleloader bull elk hunts.


(iv) We allow any-legal-weapon elk hunting during limited late season antlerless elk hunts starting on December 1 during State seasons.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may only fish with the aid of a pole, hook, and line. We prohibit trot lines, bow and arrows, spears, spear guns, cross bows, and firearms.


(ii) You must release unharmed any of the following four endangered fish if caught: Razorback sucker, Colorado pikeminnow, humpback chub, and bonytailed chub.





---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54141, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48878, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57132, Sept. 16, 2022]








