# § 141.601   Standard monitoring.

(a) *Standard monitoring plan.* Your standard monitoring plan must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section. You must prepare and submit your standard monitoring plan to the State according to the schedule in § 141.600(c).


(1) Your standard monitoring plan must include a schematic of your distribution system (including distribution system entry points and their sources, and storage facilities), with notes indicating locations and dates of all projected standard monitoring, and all projected subpart L compliance monitoring.


(2) Your standard monitoring plan must include justification of standard monitoring location selection and a summary of data you relied on to justify standard monitoring location selection.


(3) Your standard monitoring plan must specify the population served and system type (subpart H or ground water).


(4) You must retain a complete copy of your standard monitoring plan submitted under this paragraph (a), including any State modification of your standard monitoring plan, for as long as you are required to retain your IDSE report under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(b) *Standard monitoring.* (1) You must monitor as indicated in the table in this paragraph (b)(1). You must collect dual sample sets at each monitoring location. One sample in the dual sample set must be analyzed for TTHM. The other sample in the dual sample set must be analyzed for HAA5. You must conduct one monitoring period during the peak historical month for TTHM levels or HAA5 levels or the month of warmest water temperature. You must review available compliance, study, or operational data to determine the peak historical month for TTHM or HAA5 levels or warmest water temperature.


(2) You must take samples at locations other than the existing subpart L monitoring locations. Monitoring locations must be distributed throughout the distribution system.


(3) If the number of entry points to the distribution system is fewer than the specified number of entry point monitoring locations, excess entry point samples must be replaced equally at high TTHM and HAA5 locations. If there is an odd extra location number, you must take a sample at a high TTHM location. If the number of entry points to the distribution system is more than the specified number of entry point monitoring locations, you must take samples at entry points to the distribution system having the highest annual water flows.


(4) Your monitoring under this paragraph (b) may not be reduced under the provisions of § 141.29 and the State may not reduce your monitoring using the provisions of § 142.16(m).


(c) *IDSE report.* Your IDSE report must include the elements required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. You must submit your IDSE report to the State according to the schedule in § 141.600(c).


(1) Your IDSE report must include all TTHM and HAA5 analytical results from subpart L compliance monitoring and all standard monitoring conducted during the period of the IDSE as individual analytical results and LRAAs presented in a tabular or spreadsheet format acceptable to the State. If changed from your standard monitoring plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, your report must also include a schematic of your distribution system, the population served, and system type (subpart H or ground water).


(2) Your IDSE report must include an explanation of any deviations from your approved standard monitoring plan.


(3) You must recommend and justify subpart V compliance monitoring locations and timing based on the protocol in § 141.605.


(4) You must retain a complete copy of your IDSE report submitted under this section for 10 years after the date that you submitted your report. If the State modifies the subpart V monitoring requirements that you recommended in your IDSE report or if the State approves alternative monitoring locations, you must keep a copy of the State's notification on file for 10 years after the date of the State's notification. You must make the IDSE report and any State notification available for review by the State or the public.




