# § 721.1907   Butanamide, 2,2′-[3′dichloro[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diyl)bisazobis 

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance generically identified as butanamide, 2,2′-[3′dichloro[1,1′-biphenyl]-4,4′-diyl)bisazobis *N*-2,3-dihydro-2-oxo-1H-benximdazol-5-yl)-3-oxo- (PMN P-93-1111) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(3)(i), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). The following additional statements shall appear on each label and Safety Data Sheet (SDS) as specified by this paragraph: This substance decomposes in polymers or sheet metal coatings at temperatures greater than 280 °C to give 3,3′ DCB a suspect human carcinogen.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and processing or use at temperatures above 280 °C.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (b)(1) and (c)(1). When the substance is processed or used as a colorant for dyeing plastics, this section does not apply.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 5742, Feb. 4, 1998]




