# § 60.5371b   What GHG and VOC standards apply to super-emitter events?

This section applies to super-emitter events. For purposes of this section, a super-emitter event is defined as any emissions event that is located at or near an oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* individual well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) and that is detected using remote detection methods and has quantified emission rate of 100 kg/hr of methane or greater. Paragraph (a) of this section describes the qualifications one must meet to apply to be a third-party notifier of super-emitter events. Paragraph (b) of this section describes the procedures for certifying third-party notifiers, as well as the procedures for petitioning the Agency for removal of a third-party notifier from the list of certified notifiers. Paragraph (c) of this section contains the required information that must be included in any notification submitted to the EPA from a certified third-party notifier and a timetable for notifications. The EPA shall review these notifications and if the EPA determines the notification is complete and does not contain information that the EPA finds to be erroneous or inaccurate to a reasonable degree of certainty, the EPA shall assign the notification a unique notification identification number, provide the notification to the owner or operator of the oil and natural gas facility identified in the notification, and post the notification, except for the owner/operator attribution, at *www.epa.gov/super-emitter.* Upon receiving such notification, owners or operators must take the actions listed in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. The EPA shall post the reports submitted under paragraph (e) of this section, § 60.5371(b) and § 60.5371a(b) of subparts OOOO and OOOOa of this part, and applicable State or Federal plan implementing § 60.5388c(b) of subpart OOOOc of this part, including owner/operator attributions that have been confirmed by the reports; where the reporting deadlines have passed but no reports have been received, the EPA intends to post owner/operator attributions that the EPA reasonably believes to be accurate. The reports will be publicly available at *www.epa.gov/super-emitter*.


(a) *Qualifications for third-party notifiers.* An entity may apply to the Administrator under paragraph (b) of this section for approval as a third-party notifier if it meets the qualifications in this paragraph (a). The entity must be a person, as defined in 42 U.S.C. 7602(e), excluding the owner or operator of the site where the super-emitter event is detected, the Administrator, or the delegated authority. The entity must use a method that has been approved under § 60.5398b(d) for one of the technologies specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Satellite detection of methane emissions.


(2) Remote-sensing equipment on aircraft.


(3) Mobile monitoring platforms.


(b) *Third-party notifier certification.* An entity meeting the qualifications in paragraph (a) of this section may apply to be certified as a third-party notifier. Only entities certified as third-party notifiers may submit information on super-emitter events to the EPA under paragraph (c) of this section. An entity seeking certification as a third-party notifier must submit a request to the Administrator as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Certified third-party notifiers must follow the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; failure to maintain the required records may result in loss of certification status. The Administrator will determine whether the request for certification is adequate and issue an approval or disapproval of the request as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. A certified third-party notifier must re-apply when material changes are made, as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. A third-party notifier may be removed from the list of certified notifiers as detailed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.


(1) A request to be certified as a third-party notifier must be submitted to: U.S. EPA, Attn: Leader, Measurement Technology Group, Mail Drop: E143-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The request must include the supporting information in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section. If your submittal includes information claimed to be CBI, submit the portion of the information claimed as CBI to the OAQPS CBI office. The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* and should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Leader, Measurement Technology Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link. If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and Measurement Technology Group Leader, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(i) General identification information for the candidate third-party notifier requesting certification as a third-party notifier including the mailing address, the physical address, the name of a principal officer and an email address for the principal officer, and name of the certifying official(s) and the certifying official(s)'s email address.


(ii) Description of the technologies the entity will use to identify emissions that are 100 kg/hr of methane or greater. At a minimum, the description must include the following:


(A) Reference to the approval of the method to be used under § 60.5398b(d).


(B) Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or contracting agreements with the technology provider(s) that will be used to identify super-emitter events (if applicable).


(iii) Curriculum vitae of the certifying official(s) detailing their work history, education, skill set, and training for evaluating the results of the technologies that will be used to identify super-emitter events.


(iv) The candidate third-party notifier's standard operating procedure(s) detailing the procedures and processes for data review. At a minimum, this must include the following:


(A) Procedures for evaluating the emission data provided by the technology, including the accuracy of the data and whether the data was collected in compliance with the method requirements approved under § 60.5398b(d).


(B) Process for verifying the accuracy of the locality of emissions.


(C) Process for identifying and verifying the owner or operator of a site where a super-emitter event occurs, including the source of information that will be used to make the identification.


(D) Procedures for handling potentially erroneous data.


(v) Description of the systems used for maintaining essential records identified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(vi) A Quality Management Plan consistent with EPA's Quality Management Plan Standard (Directive No: CIO 2015-S-01.0, January 17, 2023) for Non-EPA organizations.


(2) Certified third-party notifiers must maintain the records identified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. Upon request, the certified third-party notifier must make these records available to the Administrator for review.


(i) Records for all surveys conducted by or sponsored by the certified third-party notifier, including outputs (*e.g.,* emission rates, locations) and associated data needed to confirm the accuracy of the outputs and the performance of the method used.


(ii) Records of all notifications of super-emitter events provided to the EPA. Retain any information collected that is used to evaluate the validity of a super-emitter event but which is not required to be submitted as part of the notification.


(iii) A copy of any records and/or identification of any databases used in the identification of the potential owner or operator of the site where a super-emitter event occurred.


(3) Based upon the Administrator's judgment of the completeness, reasonableness, and accuracy of the entity's request, the Administrator will approve or disapprove the entity for certification as a third-party notifier. For those third parties that receive approval, the Administrator will provide you a unique notifier ID. Starting 15 calendar days after being approved as a certified third-party notifier, the notifier may submit notifications of super-emitter events to the EPA as outlined in paragraph (c) of this section. All approved third-party notifiers shall be posted on the EPA website at *www.epa.gov/emc-third-party-certifications.*

(4) If a third-party notifier intends to make any significant changes to their procedures for identifying super-emitter events, meaning a change to the technology used to identify super-emitter events or a change to the certifying official(s), you must request an amendment to your certification and be recertified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(5) A certified third-party notifier may be removed from the list of approved third-party notifiers in any of the circumstances listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. Entities removed from the list of approved third-party notifiers cannot submit notifications to the EPA under paragraph (c) of this section. Entities may be added back to the list of approved third-party notifiers by receiving approval of a new certification request submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(i) If a certified third-party notifier has made material changes to their procedures for identifying super-emitter events, meaning a change to the technology used to identify super-emitter events or a change to the certifying official, without seeking recertification.


(ii) If the Administrator finds that the certified third-party notifier has persistently submitted data with significant errors (*e.g.,* misidentification of the owner or operator) or if the third-party notifier has engaged in illegal activity during the during the assessment of a super-emitter event (*e.g.,* trespassing).


(iii) If the Administrator receives a petition from an owner or operator to remove a certified third-party notifier from the list of approved notifiers, as set forth below, and the Administrator makes the finding noted below. Any owner or operator that has received more than three notices with meaningful and/or demonstrable errors of a super-emitter event at the same oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* a well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) from the EPA that were submitted to the EPA by the same third party may petition the Administrator to remove that third party from the list of approved notifiers, by providing evidence that the claimed super-emitter events did not occur. Such petitions may not be used to dispute the methodology that were approved through the process described in § 60.5398b(d). The third party will be given the opportunity to respond to the petition. If, in the Administrator's discretion, the Administrator determines that the three notifications contain meaningful and/or demonstrable errors, including that the third party did not use the methane detection technology identified in their submittal, the emissions event did not exceed the threshold of 100 kg/hr of methane, the third-party knowingly misidentified the date of a super-emitter event, the third party may be removed by the Administrator from the list of approved notifiers. The failure of the owner or operator to find the source of the super-emitter event upon subsequent inspection shall not be proof, by itself, of demonstrable error.


(c) *Notification of super-emitter events.* Notifications must be submitted to the EPA using the Super-Emitter Program Portal (available at *http://www.epa.gov/super-emitter*). Notifications must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. The EPA will review the submitted notifications of super-emitter events for completeness and accuracy. If the EPA determines that the notification is complete and does not contain information that the EPA finds to be inaccurate to a reasonable degree of certainty, the EPA will assign the notification a unique notification report identification number, make the notification publicly available at *www.epa.gov/super-emitter,* and provide the super-emitter event notification to the owner or operator identified in the notification. The EPA will not review and provide the notification to an owner or operator if the notification is submitted after the date specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section.


(1) Unique Third-Party Notifier ID.


(2) Date of detection of the super-emitter event. If multiple surveys were required to detect and quantify the super-emitter event, the date of detection is the date of the final survey.


(3) Location of super-emitter event in latitude and longitude coordinates in decimal degrees to an accuracy and precision of four (4) decimals of a degree using the North American Datum of 1983.


(4) Owner(s) or operator(s) of any oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* individual well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) within 50 meters of the latitude and longitude coordinates of the super-emitter event, if available.


(5) Identification of the detection technology and reference to the approval of the technology used under § 60.5398b(d).


(6) Documentation (*e.g.,* imagery) depicting the detected super-emitter event and the site from which the super-emitter event was detected.


(7) Quantified emission rate of the super-emitter event in kg/hr and associated uncertainty bounds (*e.g.,* 1-σ) of the measurement.


(8) Attestation statement, signed and dated by the third-party notifier certifying official submitting the data collected. The attestation must state: “I certify that I have been approved to be a notifier under 40 CFR 60.5371b(b) and that the emission detection information included in this notification was collected and interpreted as described in this notification. Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the collection and analysis of the data, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete.”


(9) The third-party notifier must submit the notification within 15 calendar days of the date of detection of the super-emitter event.


(d) *Identification of super-emitter events.* Within 5 calendar days of receiving a notification from the EPA of a super-emitter event, the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility (*e.g.,* a well site, centralized production facility, natural gas processing plant, or compressor station) must initiate a super-emitter event investigation. The investigation must be conducted in accordance with this paragraph (d) and completed within 15 days of receiving the notification from the EPA. The owner or operator must maintain records of its super-emitter event investigations and report the findings from the investigation according to the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification, report this result to the EPA under paragraph (e) of this section. Your super-emitter event investigation is deemed complete.


(2) If you own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the notification, you must investigate to determine the source of super-emitter event. The investigation may include but is not limited to the actions specified below in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Review any maintenance activities (*e.g.,* liquids unloading) or process activities from the affected facilities subject to regulation under this subpart, starting from the date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of investigation, to determine if the activities indicate any potential source(s) of the super-emitter event emissions.


(ii) Review all monitoring data from control devices (*e.g.,* flares) from the affected facilities subject to regulation under this subpart from the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification until the date of receiving the notification from the EPA. Identify any malfunctions of control devices or periods when the control devices were not in compliance with applicable requirements and that indicate a potential source of the super-emitter event emissions.


(iii) If you conducted a fugitive emissions survey or periodic screening event in accordance with § 60.5397b or § 60.5398b(b) between the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification and the date the notification from the EPA was received, review the results of the survey to identify any potential source(s) of the super-emitter event emissions.


(iv) If you conduct continuous monitoring with advanced methane detection technology in accordance with § 60.5398b(c), review the monitoring data collected on or after the initial date of detection of the super-emitter event as identified in the notification, until the date of receiving the notification from the EPA.


(v) Screen the entire oil and natural gas facility with OGI, Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, or an alternative test method(s) approved per § 60.5398b(d), to determine if a super-emitter event is present.


(3) If the source of the super-emitter event was found to be from fugitive emission components at a well site, centralized production facility, or compressor station subject to this subpart, you must comply with the repair requirements under § 60.5397b and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements under § 60.5420b(b)(9) and (c)(14).


(e) *Super-emitter event report.* You must submit the results of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (d) of this section to the EPA in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If the super-emitter event (*i.e.,* emission at 100 kg/hr of methane or more) is ongoing at the time of the initial report, submit the additional information in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. You must attest to the information included in the report as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(1) Within 15 days of receiving a notification from the EPA under paragraph (c) of this section, you must submit a report of the super-emitter event investigation conducted under paragraph (d) of this section through the Super-Emitter Program Portal. You must include the applicable information in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section in the report. If you have identified a demonstrable error in the notification, the report may include a statement of the demonstrable error.


(i) Notification Report ID of the super-emitter event notification.


(ii) Identification of whether you are the owner or operator of an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification. If you do not own or operate an oil and natural gas facility within 50 meters from the latitude and longitude provided in the EPA notification, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) through (viii) of this section.


(iii) General identification information for the facility, including, facility name, the physical address, applicable ID Number (*e.g.,* EPA ID Number, API Well ID Number), the owner or operator or responsible official (where applicable) and their email address.


(iv) Identification of whether there is an affected facility or associated equipment subject to regulation under this subpart at this oil and natural gas facility.


(v) Indication of whether you were able to identify the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate you were unable to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you must certify that all applicable investigations specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section have been conducted for all affected facilities and associated equipment subject to this subpart that are at this oil and natural gas facility, and you have determined that the affected facilities and associated equipment are not the source of the super-emitter event. If you indicate that you were not able to identify the source of the super-emitter event, you are not required to report the information in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi) through (viii) of this section.


(vi) The source(s) of the super-emitter event.


(vii) Identification of whether the source of the super-emitter event is equipment subject to regulation under this subpart. If the source of the super-emitter event is equipment subject to regulation under this subpart, identify the applicable regulation(s) under this subpart.


(viii) Indication of whether the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal (*i.e.,* emissions at 100 kg/hr of methane or more).


(A) If the super-emitter event is not ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide the actual (or if unknown) estimated date and time the super-emitter event ended.


(B) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, provide a short narrative of your plan to end the super-emitter event, including the targeted end date for the efforts to be completed and the super-emitter event ended.


(2) If the super-emitter event is ongoing at the time of the initial report submittal, within 5 business days of the date the super-emitter event ends, you must update your initial report through the Super-Emitter Program Portal to provide the end date and time of the super-emitter event.


(3) You must sign the following attestation when submitting data into the Super-Emitter Program Portal: “I certify that the information provided in this report regarding the specified super-emitter event was prepared under my direction or supervision. I further certify that the investigations were conducted, and this report was prepared pursuant to the requirements of § 60.5371b(d) and (e). Based on my professional knowledge and experience, and inquiry of personnel involved in the assessment, the certification submitted herein is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that knowingly false statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.”



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62891, Aug. 1, 2024]




