# § 429.201   What is this subpart about?

(a) *Scope and purpose.* This subpart applies to all claims filed by or on behalf of employees of SSA for loss of, or damage to, personal property incident to their service with SSA under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees Claims Act of 1964, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3721 (MPCECA). A claim must be substantiated and the possession of the property determined to be reasonable, useful, or proper.


(b) *Maximum payment under this part.* The maximum amount that can be paid for any claim under the Act is $40,000 or, in extraordinary circumstances, $100,000, and property may be replaced in kind at the discretion of the Government.


(c) *Policy.* SSA is not an insurer and does not underwrite all personal property losses that an employee may sustain incident to employment. We encourage employees to carry private insurance to the maximum extent practicable to avoid losses that may not be recoverable from SSA. The procedures set forth in this subpart are designed to enable you to obtain the proper amount of compensation from SSA and/or a private insurer for the loss or damage. If you fail to comply with these procedures it could reduce or preclude payment of your claim under this subpart.


(d) *Definitions.* (1) “Quarters,” unless otherwise indicated, means a house, apartment, or other residence that is an SSA employee's principal residence.


(2) “State,” unless otherwise indicated, is defined by § 404.2(c)(5) of title 20 of the Code of Federal Regulations.


(3) “SSA Claims Officer” means the SSA official designated to determine claims under the MPCECA. The current designee is the Associate General Counsel for General Law, Office 1.



---

[N] [69 FR 48768, Aug. 11, 2004, as amended at 88 FR 1330, Jan. 10, 2023]








