# ยง 1.169   Post-hearing procedure and decision.

(a) *Corrections to transcript or recording.* (1) At any time, but not later than the time fixed for filing proposed findings of fact, conclusions and order, or briefs, as the case may be, any party may file a motion proposing corrections to the transcript or recording.


(2) Unless a party files such a motion in the manner prescribed, the transcript or recording shall be presumed, except for obvious typographical errors, to be a true, correct, and complete transcript or recording of the testimony given at the hearing and to contain an accurate description or reference to all exhibits received in evidence and made part of the hearing record.


(3) At any time prior to the filing of the Judge's decision and after consideration of any objections filed as to the transcript or recording, the Judge may issue an order making any corrections in the transcript or recording which the Judge finds are warranted, which corrections shall be entered onto the original transcript or recording by the Hearing Clerk (without obscurring the original text). 


(b) *Proposed findings of fact, conclusions, order and briefs.* The parties may file with the Hearing Clerk proposed findings of fact, conclusions and orders based solely upon the record and on matters subject to official notice, and briefs in support thereof. The Judge shall announce at the hearing a definite period of time within which these documents may be filed.


(c) *Judge's decision.* The Judge, within a reasonable time after the termination of the period allowed for the filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions and order, and briefs in support thereof, shall prepare, upon the basis of the record and matters officially noticed, and shall file with the Hearing Clerk, the Judge's decision, a copy of which shall be served by the Hearing Clerk upon each of the parties. Such decision shall become final and effective without further proceedings 35 days after the date of service thereof upon the respondent, unless there is an appeal to the Judicial Officer by a party to the proceeding pursuant to ยง 1.170: *Provided,* That no decision shall be final for purposes of a request for Judicial Review, as provided in ยง 1.175(a), except a final decision of the Judicial Officer on appeal.



---

[N] [45 FR 6587, Jan. 29, 1980, as amended at 60 FR 8458, Feb. 14, 1995]




