# § 315.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:


*Business hour* means an hour between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., during a weekday (Monday through Friday), excluding Federal holidays. “Business hour” also may include, at the seller's option, a prescriber's regular business hours on Saturdays, provided that the seller has actual knowledge of these hours. “Business hour” shall be determined based on the time zone of the prescriber.


“Eight (8) business hours” shall be calculated from the time the prescriber receives the prescription verification information from the seller, and shall conclude when eight (8) business hours have elapsed. For verification requests received by a prescriber during non-business hours, the calculation of “eight (8) business hours” shall begin at 9 a.m. on the next weekday that is not a Federal holiday or, if applicable, on Saturday at the beginning of the prescriber's actual business hours.


*Commission* means the Federal Trade Commission.


*Contact lens* means any contact lens for which State or Federal law requires a prescription.


*Contact lens fitting* means the process that begins after an initial eye examination for contact lenses and ends when a successful fit has been achieved or, in the case of a renewal prescription, ends when the prescriber determines that no change in the existing prescription is required, and such term may include:


(1) An examination to determine lens specifications;


(2) Except in the case of a renewal of a contact lens prescription, an initial evaluation of the fit of the contact lens on the eye; and


(3) Medically necessary follow-up examinations.


*Contact lens prescription* means a prescription, issued in accordance with State and Federal law, that contains sufficient information for the complete and accurate filling of a prescription for contact lenses, including the following:


(1) The name of the patient;


(2) The date of examination;


(3) The issue date and expiration date of prescription;


(4) The name, postal address, telephone number, and facsimile telephone number of prescriber;


(5) The power, material or manufacturer or both of the prescribed contact lens;


(6) The base curve or appropriate designation of the prescribed contact lens;


(7) The diameter, when appropriate, of the prescribed contact lens; and


(8) In the case of a private label contact lens, the name of the manufacturer, trade name of the private label brand, and, if applicable, trade name of equivalent brand name.


*Direct communication* means completed communication by telephone, facsimile, or electronic mail.


*Issue date* means the date on which the patient receives a copy of the prescription at the completion of a contact lens fitting.


*Ophthalmic goods* are contact lenses, eyeglasses, or any component of eyeglasses.


*Ophthalmic services* are the measuring, fitting, and adjusting of ophthalmic goods subsequent to an eye examination.


*Prescriber* means, with respect to contact lens prescriptions, an ophthalmologist, optometrist, or other person permitted under State law to issue prescriptions for contact lenses in compliance with any applicable requirements established by the Food and Drug Administration. “Other person,” for purposes of this definition, includes a dispensing optician who is permitted under State law to issue prescriptions and who is authorized or permitted under State law to perform contact lens fitting services.


*Private label contact lenses* mean contact lenses that are sold under the label of a seller where the contact lenses are identical to lenses made by the same manufacturer but sold under the labels of other sellers.


*Provide to the patient a copy* means giving a patient a copy of his or her contact lens prescription:


(1) On paper; or


(2) In a digital format that can be accessed, downloaded, and printed by the patient. For a copy provided in a digital format, the prescriber shall identify to the patient the specific method or methods of electronic delivery to be used, such as text message, electronic mail, or an online patient portal, and obtain the patient's verifiable affirmative consent to receive a digital copy through the identified method or methods; and maintain records or evidence of a patient's affirmative consent for a period of not less than three years. Such records or evidence shall be available for inspection by the Federal Trade Commission, its employees, and its representatives.


*Reasonably understandable volume* means at an audible level that renders the message intelligible to the receiving audience.


*Slow and deliberate manner* means at a rate that renders the message intelligible to the receiving audience.



---

[N] [69 FR 40508, July 2, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 50717, Aug. 17, 2020]




