# § 761.219   One-year exception reporting.

(a) A disposer of PCB waste shall submit a One-year Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the disposal facility is located no later than 45 days from the end of the 1-year storage for disposal date when the following occurs:


(1) The disposal facility receives PCBs or PCB Items on a date more than 9 months from the date the PCBs or PCB Items were removed from service for disposal, as indicated on the manifest or continuation sheet; and


(2) Because of contractual commitments or other factors affecting the facility's disposal capacity, the disposer of PCB waste could not dispose of the affected PCBs or PCB Items within 1 year of the date of removal from service for disposal.


(b) A generator or commercial storer of PCB waste who manifests PCBs or PCB Items to a disposer of PCB waste shall submit a One-year Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator for the Region in which the generator or commercial storer is located no later than 45 days from the date the following occurs:


(1) The generator or commercial storer transferred the PCBs or PCB Items to the disposer of PCB waste on a date within 9 months from the date of removal from service for disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items, as indicated on the manifest or continuation sheet; and


(2) The generator or commercial storer either has not received within 13 months from the date of removal from service for disposal a Certificate of Disposal confirming the disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items, or the generator or commercial storer receives a Certificate of Disposal confirming disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items on a date more than 1 year after the date of removal from service.


(c) The One-year Exception Report shall include:


(1) A legible copy of any manifest or other written communication relevant to the transfer and disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items.


(2) A cover letter signed by the submitter or an authorized representative explaining:


(i) The date(s) when the PCBs or PCB Items were removed from service for disposal.


(ii) The date(s) when the PCBs or PCB Items were received by the submitter of the report, if applicable.


(iii) The date(s) when the affected PCBs or PCB Items were transferred to a designated disposal facility.


(iv) The identity of the transporters, commercial storers, or disposers known to be involved with the transaction.


(v) The reason, if known, for the delay in bringing about the disposal of the affected PCBs or PCB Items within 1 year from the date of removal from service for disposal.


(d) PCB/radioactive waste that is exempt from the 1-year storage for disposal time limit pursuant to § 761.65(a)(1) is also exempt from the exception reporting requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.


(e) Electronic One-year Exception Reports that are originated in an EPA-approved electronic system in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section and used in accordance with this section in lieu of paper One-year Exception Reports are the legal equivalent of paper One-year Exception Reports bearing handwritten signatures and satisfy for all purposes any requirement in this section to complete, sign, provide, and retain a One-year Exception Report.


(1) Any requirement in this section to sign a One-year Exception Report certification by hand is satisfied by signing with a valid and enforceable electronic signature within the meaning of § 262.25 of this chapter.


(2) Any requirement in this section to give, provide or send a One-year Exception Report to the EPA Regional Administrator is satisfied when a One-year electronic Exception Report is transmitted to the EPA Regional Administrator by submission to an EPA-approved electronic system.


(3) Any requirement in this section for a generator or disposer to keep or retain a copy of a One-year Exception Report is satisfied by retention of a signed electronic One-year Exception Report in the generators or disposer's respective account on an EPA-approved electronic system, provided that the One-year Exception Report is readily available for viewing and production if requested by any EPA or authorized State inspector.


(4) No generator or disposer may be held liable for the inability to produce an electronic One-year Exception Report for inspection under this section if the generator or disposer can demonstrate that the inability to produce the electronic One-year Exception Report is due exclusively to a technical difficulty with the EPA-approved electronic system for which the generator or disposer bears no responsibility.




(f) *Restriction on use of electronic One-year Exception Reporting.* A generator or disposer may participate in electronic One-year Exception Reporting if it is known at the time the One-year Exception Report is originated that:


(1) The manifest at issue originated in the EPA e-Manifest system in accordance with §§ 262.24(c) and 262.25 of this chapter; and


(2) For mixed paper and electronic manifests (*i.e.,* hybrid manifests), the generator has registered in the EPA e-Manifest system and has access to the electronic manifests for the site.





---

[N] [77 FR 54835, Sept. 6, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 60739, July 26, 2024]




