# ยง 166.3   Definitions.

Terms used in this part have the same meaning as in the Act. In addition, as used in this part, the following terms shall apply:


*Act* means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended.


*Agency and EPA* mean the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency.


*Beneficial organism* means any pollinating insect, or any pest predator, parasite, pathogen or other biological control agent which functions naturally or as part of an integrated pest management program to control another pest.


*Emergency condition* means an urgent, non-routine situation that requires the use of a pesticide(s) and shall be deemed to exist when:


(1) No effective pesticides are available under the Act that have labeled uses registered for control of the pest under the conditions of the emergency; and


(2) No economically or environmentally feasible alternative practices which provide adequate control are available; and


(3) The situation:


(i) Involves the introduction or dissemination of an invasive species or a pesticide new to or not theretofore known to be widely prevalent or distributed within or throughout the United States and its territories; or


(ii) Will present significant risks to human health; or


(iii) Will present significant risks to threatened or endangered species, beneficial organisms, or the environment; or


(iv) Will cause significant economic loss due to:


(A) An outbreak or an expected outbreak of a pest; or


(B) A change in plant growth or development caused by unusual environmental conditions where such change can be rectified by the use of a pesticide(s).


*First food use* means the use of a pesticide on a food or in a manner which otherwise would be expected to result in residues in a food, if no tolerance or exemption from the requirements of a tolerance for residues of the pesticide on any food has been established for the pesticide under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


*Food* means any article used for food or drink for man or animals.


*Invasive species* means, with respect to a particular ecosystem, any species that is not native to that ecosystem, and whose introduction does or is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human health.


*IR-4* means the Interregional Research Project No. 4, a cooperative effort of the state land grant universities, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA, to address the chronic shortage of pest control options for minor crops, which are generally of too small an acreage to provide economic incentive for registration by the crop protection industry.


*New chemical* means an active ingredient not contained in any currently registered pesticide.


*Significant economic loss* means that, compared to the situation without the pest emergency and despite the best efforts of the affected persons, the emergency conditions at the specific use site identified in the application are reasonably expected to cause losses meeting any of the following criteria:


(1) For pest activity that primarily affects the current crop or other output, one or more of the following:


(i) Yield loss greater than or equal to 20%.


(ii) Economic loss, including revenue losses and cost increases, greater than or equal to 20% of gross revenues.


(iii) Economic loss, including revenue losses and cost increases greater than or equal to 50% of net revenues.


(2) For any pest activity where EPA determines that the criteria in paragraph (1) of this definition would not adequately describe the expected loss, substantial loss or impairment of capital assets, or a loss that would affect the long-term financial viability expected from the productive activity.


*Special Review* means any interim administrative review of the risks and benefits of the use of a pesticide conducted pursuant to the provisions of part 154 of this chapter, or ยง 162.11 of this chapter prior to November 27, 1985, or any subsequent version of those rules.


*Unreasonable adverse effects on the environment* means any unreasonable risk to man or the environment, taking into account the economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits of the use of any pesticide.



---

[N] [73 FR 75597, Dec. 12, 2008]




