# ยง 1278.1   Definitions.

*Constituent Bank* means a Bank that is proposing to merge with one or more other Banks. Each Bank entering into a merger is a Constituent Bank, regardless of whether it is also a Continuing Bank.


*Continuing Bank* means a Bank that will exist as the result of a merger of two or more Constituent Banks, and when used in the singular shall include the plural.


*Disclosure Statement* means a written document that contains, to the extent applicable, all of the items that a Bank would be required to include in a Form S-4 Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 (or any successor form promulgated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission governing disclosure required for securities issued in business combination transactions) when prepared as a prospectus as directed in Part I of the form, if the Bank were required to provide such a prospectus to its shareholders in connection with a merger.


*Effective Date* means the date on which the organization certificate of the Continuing Bank becomes effective as provided under ยง 1278.7.


*Financial Statements* means statements of condition, income, capital, and cash flows, with explanatory notes, in such form as the Banks are required to include in their filings made under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.


*Merge* or *Merger* means:


(1) A merger of one or more Banks into another Bank;


(2) A consolidation of two or more Banks resulting in a new Bank;


(3) A purchase of substantially all of the assets, and assumption of substantially all of the liabilities, of one or more Banks by another Bank or Banks; or


(4) Any other business combination of two or more Banks into one or more resulting Banks.


*Record Date* means the date established by a Bank's board of directors for determining the members that are entitled to vote on the ratification of the merger agreement and the number of ballots that may be cast by each in the election.



---

[N] [76 FR 72833, Nov. 28, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2328, Jan. 11, 2013; 81 FR 76300, Nov. 2, 2016]




