# § 810.405   Certification.

(a) To satisfy its certification obligation under section 202A(c)(1)(B)(i) of the USMCA Implementation Act pertaining to the high-wage components of the LVC requirements, WHD will review for omissions or errors the following information relating to the high-wage components of the LVC requirements, which the producer of the covered vehicle (rather than the importer or exporter) submits to CBP.


(1) The certifying vehicle producer's name, corporate address, Federal Employer Identification Number or alternative unique identification number of the producer's choosing, such as a Business Number (BN) issued by the Canada Revenue Agency, *Registro Federal de Contribuyentes* (RFC) number issued by Mexico's Tax Administration Service (SAT), Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) number issued by the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF), or an identification number issued to the person or enterprise by CBP, and a point of contact for the certifying vehicle producer.


(2) The vehicle class, model line, and/or other category indicating the motor vehicles covered by the certification.


(3) The time period the producer of the covered vehicle is using for its LVC calculations. For purposes of calculating the LVC, a producer of the covered vehicle may use any one of the time periods used for calculating the average hourly base wage rate, as described in § 810.105(d).


(4) The name, address, and Federal Employer Identification Number or alternative unique identification number of the producer's choosing, such as a Business Number (BN) issued by the Canada Revenue Agency, *Registro Federal de Contribuyentes* (RFC) number issued by Mexico's Tax Administration Service (SAT), Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) number issued by the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF), or an identification number issued to the person or enterprise by CBP, for each plant or facility the producer of the covered vehicle is relying on to meet the high-wage material and manufacturing expenditures component of the LVC requirements.


(5) A statement that the average hourly base wage rate, calculated consistent with § 810.105, meets or exceeds US$16 per hour for each plant or facility identified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(6) If applicable, a statement that the producer is using high-wage transportation or related costs to meet the high-wage material and manufacturing expenditures component. If the producer is using high-wage transportation or related costs, the producer must identify the company name, address, and Federal Employer Identification Number or alternative unique identification number of the producer's choosing, such as a Business Number (BN) issued by the Canada Revenue Agency, *Registro Federal de Contribuyentes* (RFC) number issued by Mexico's Tax Administration Service (SAT), Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) number issued by the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF), or an identification number issued to the person or enterprise by CBP, for each company the producer used to calculate its high-wage transportation or related costs.


(7) If applicable, a statement that the producer is using the high-wage technology expenditures credit to meet the LVC requirements. If the producer is using the high-wage technology expenditures credit, a producer must identify the percentage the producer is claiming as a credit towards the total LVC requirement.


(8) If applicable, a statement that the producer is using the high-wage assembly expenditures credit to meet the LVC requirements. If the producer is using the high-wage assembly expenditures credit, the producer must identify the following:


(i) The name, address, and Federal Employer Identification Number (for U.S. plants) or alternative unique identification number of the producer's choosing, such as a Business Number (BN) issued by the Canada Revenue Agency, *Registro Federal de Contribuyentes* (RFC) number issued by Mexico's Tax Administration Service (SAT), Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) number issued by the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF), or an identification number issued to the person or enterprise by CBP for the assembly plant the producer used to qualify for the high-wage assembly expenditures credit; and


(ii) A statement that the average hourly base wage rate, calculated consistent with §§ 810.300 and 810.105, meets or exceeds US$16 per hour for the assembly plant used to qualify for the high-wage assembly expenditures credit.


(b) Producers of covered vehicles must ensure that records are kept of information to support the calculations submitted under paragraphs (a)(5), (7), and (8)(ii). Producers must be able to provide records upon request by the Department, as described in §  810.600(c), but the records may be physically maintained by a supplier or contractor. The Department will accept records directly from a supplier or contractor where, for example, the producer and supplier or contractor have contracted for such an approach.


(c) This section applies to all producers of covered vehicles during the alternative staging regime period and after the alternative staging regime period ends.




