# § 90.2T   Definitions.

As April 14, 2025, the following definitions apply in this part:


*Act.* The Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 91-173, as amended by Public Law 95-164 and Public Law 109-236.


*Active workings.* Any place in a coal mine where miners are normally required to work or travel.


*Approved sampling device.* A sampling device approved by the Secretary and Secretary for Health and Human Services (HHS) under part 74 of this subchapter.


*Certified person.* An individual certified by the Secretary in accordance with § 90.202 to take respirable dust samples required by this part or certified in accordance with § 90.203 to perform the maintenance and calibration of respirable dust sampling equipment as required by this part.


*Coal mine dust personal sampler unit (CMDPSU).* A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart B, of this subchapter.


*Concentration.* A measure of the amount of a substance contained per unit volume of air.


*Continuous personal dust monitor (CPDM).* A personal sampling device approved under part 74, subpart C, of this subchapter.


*District Manager.* The manager of the Coal Mine Safety and Health District in which the mine is located.


*Equivalent concentration.* The concentration of respirable coal mine dust, including quartz, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air (mg/m
3) as measured with an approved sampling device, determined by dividing the weight of dust in milligrams collected on the filter of an approved sampling device by the volume of air in cubic meters passing through the filter (sampling time in minutes (t) times the sampling airflow rate in cubic meters per minute), and then converting that concentration to an equivalent concentration as measured by the Mining Research Establishment (MRE) instrument. When the approved sampling device is:


(1) The CMDPSU, the equivalent concentration is determined by multiplying the concentration of respirable coal mine dust by the constant factor prescribed by the Secretary.


(2) The CPDM, the device shall be programmed to automatically report end-of-shift concentration measurements as equivalent concentrations.


*Mechanized mining unit (MMU).* A unit of mining equipment including hand loading equipment used for the production of material; or a specialized unit which uses mining equipment other than specified in § 70.206(b) or in § 70.208(b) of this subchapter. Each MMU will be assigned a four-digit identification number by MSHA, which is retained by the MMU regardless of where the unit relocates within the mine. However, when:


(1) Two sets of mining equipment are used in a series of working places within the same working section and only one production crew is employed at any given time on either set of mining equipment, the two sets of equipment shall be identified as a single MMU.


(2) Two or more sets of mining equipment are simultaneously engaged in cutting, mining, or loading coal or rock from working places within the same working section, each set of mining equipment shall be identified as a separate MMU.


*MRE instrument.* The gravimetric dust sampler with a four channel horizontal elutriator developed by the Mining Research Establishment of the National Coal Board, London, England.


*MSHA.* The Mine Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Normal work duties.* Duties which the part 90 miner performs on a routine day-to-day basis in his or her job classification at a mine.


*Part 90 miner.* A miner employed at a coal mine who has exercised the option under the old section 203(b) program (30 CFR part 90, effective as of July 1, 1972), or under § 90.3 to work in an area of a mine where the average concentration of respirable dust in the mine atmosphere during each shift to which that miner is exposed is continuously maintained at or below the standard, and who has not waived these rights.


*Representative sample.* A respirable dust sample, expressed as an equivalent concentration, that reflects typical dust concentration levels in the working environment of the part 90 miner when performing normal work duties.


*Respirable dust.* Dust collected with a sampling device approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of HHS in accordance with part 74 (Coal Mine Dust Sampling Devices) of this subchapter.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Labor or a delegate.


*Secretary of Health and Human Services.* The Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) or the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.


*Transfer.* Any change in the work assignment of a part 90 miner by the operator and includes:


(1) Any change in occupation code of a part 90 miner;


(2) any movement of a part 90 miner to or from an MMU; or


(3) any assignment of a part 90 miner to the same occupation in a different location at a mine.


*Valid respirable dust sample.* A respirable dust sample collected and submitted as required by this part, including any sample for which the data were electronically transmitted to MSHA, and not voided by MSHA.



---

[N] [89 FR 28481, Apr. 18, 2024]


