# § 319.56-3   General requirements for all imported fruits and vegetables.

All fruits and vegetables that are allowed importation under this subpart must be imported in accordance with the following requirements, except as specifically provided otherwise in this subpart.


(a) *Freedom from unauthorized plant parts.* All fruits and vegetables imported under this subpart, whether in commercial or noncommercial consignments, must be free from plant litter or debris and free of any portions of plants that are specifically prohibited in the regulations in this subpart.


(b) *Permit.* (1) All fruits and vegetables imported under this subpart, whether commercial or noncommercial consignments, must be imported under permit issued by APHIS, must be imported under the conditions specified in the permit, and must be imported in accordance with all applicable regulations in this part; *except* for:


(i) Dried, cured, or processed fruits and vegetables (except frozen fruits and vegetables), including cured figs and dates, raisins, nuts, and dried beans and peas, except certain acorns and chestnuts subject to § 319.56-11 of this subpart;


(ii) Fruits and vegetables grown in Canada (except potatoes from Newfoundland and that portion of the Municipality of Central Saanich in the Province of British Columbia east of the West Saanich Road, which are prohibited importation into the United States); and


(iii) Fruits and vegetables, except mangoes, grown in the British Virgin Islands that are imported into the U.S. Virgin Islands.


(2) Persons contemplating the importation of any fruits or vegetables under this subpart must apply for a permit in accordance with §§ 319.7 through 319.7-5.


(c) *Ports of entry.* (1) Fruits and vegetables must be imported into specific ports if so required by this subpart or by part 305 of this chapter, or if so required by a permit issued in accordance with this section and with §§ 319.7 through 319.7-5 for the importation of the particular fruit or vegetable. If a permit issued for the importation of fruits or vegetables names specific port(s) where the fruits or vegetables must be imported, the fruits and vegetables may only be imported into the port(s) named in the permit. If a permit issued for the importation of fruits or vegetables does not name specific port(s) where the fruits or vegetables must be imported, the fruits and vegetables may be imported into any port referenced in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(2) Fruits and vegetables imported under this subpart may be imported into any port listed in 19 CFR 101.3(b)(1), except as otherwise provided by part 319 or by a permit issued in accordance with part 319, and except as provided in § 330.104 of this chapter. Fruits and vegetables that are to be cold treated at ports in the United States may only be imported into specific ports as provided in part 305 of this chapter.


(d) *Inspection, treatment, and other requirements.* All imported fruits or vegetables are subject to inspection, are subject to such disinfection at the port of first arrival as may be required by an inspector, and are subject to reinspection at other locations at the option of an inspector. If an inspector finds plants or portions of plants, or a plant pest or noxious weed, or evidence of a plant pest or noxious weed on or in any fruit or vegetable or its container, or finds that the fruit or vegetable may have been associated with other articles infested with plant pests or noxious weeds, the owner or agent of the owner of the fruit or vegetable must clean or treat the fruit or vegetable and its container as required by an inspector, and the fruit or vegetable is also subject to reinspection, cleaning, and treatment at the option of an inspector at any time and place until all applicable requirements of this subpart have been accomplished.


(1) *Notice of arrival; assembly for inspection.* Any person importing fruits and vegetables into the United States must offer those agricultural products for inspection and entry at the port of first arrival. The owner or agent must assemble the fruits and vegetables for inspection at the port of first arrival, or at any other place designated by an inspector, and in a manner designated by the inspector. All fruits and vegetables must be accurately disclosed and made available to an inspector for examination. The owner or the agent must provide an inspector with the name and address of the consignee and must make full disclosure of the type, quantity, and country and locality of origin of all fruits and vegetables in the consignment, either orally for noncommercial consignments or on an invoice or similar document for commercial consignments.


(2) *Refusal of entry.* If an inspector finds that an imported fruit or vegetable is prohibited, or is not accompanied by required documentation, or is so infested with a plant pest or noxious weed that, in the judgment of the inspector, it cannot be cleaned or treated, or contains soil or other prohibited contaminants, the entire lot or consignment may be refused entry into the United States.


(3) *Release for movement.* No person may move a fruit or vegetable from the port of first arrival unless an inspector has either:


(i) Released it;


(ii) Ordered treatment at the port of first arrival and, after treatment, released the fruit or vegetable;


(iii) Authorized movement of the fruit or vegetable to another location for treatment, further inspection, or destruction; or


(iv) Ordered the fruit or vegetable to be reexported.


(4) *Notice to owner of actions ordered by inspector.* If an inspector orders any disinfection, cleaning, treatment, reexportation, recall, destruction, or other action with regard to imported fruits or vegetables while the consignment is in foreign commerce, the inspector will issue an emergency action notification (PPQ Form 523) to the owner of the fruits or vegetables or to the owner's agent. The owner must, within the time and in the manner specified in the PPQ Form 523, destroy the fruits and vegetables, ship them to a point outside the United States, move them to an authorized site, and/or apply treatments or other safeguards to the fruits and vegetables as prescribed to prevent the introduction of plant pests or noxious weeds into the United States.


(e) *Costs and charges.* APHIS will be responsible only for the costs of providing the services of an inspector during regularly assigned hours of duty and at the usual places of duty. 
1 The owner of imported fruits or vegetables is responsible for all additional costs of inspection, treatment, movement, storage, destruction, or other measures ordered by an inspector under this subpart, including any labor, chemicals, packing materials, or other supplies required. APHIS will not be responsible for any costs or charges, other than those identified in this section.


(f) *APHIS not responsible for damage.* APHIS assumes no responsibility for any damage to fruits or vegetables that results from the application of treatments or other measures required under this subpart (or under part 305 of this chapter) to protect against the introduction of plant pests into the United States.



---

[N] [72 FR 39501, July 18, 2007, as amended at 73 FR 10972, Feb. 29, 2008; 75 FR 4252, Jan. 26, 2010; 79 FR 19811, Apr. 10, 2014]




