# § 63.744   Standards: Cleaning operations.

(a) *Housekeeping measures*. Each owner or operator of a new or existing cleaning operation subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section unless the cleaning solvent used is identified in Table 1 of this section or meets the definition of “Non-HAP material” in 63.742. The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section do not apply to spent cleaning solvents, and solvent-laden applicators that are subject to and handled and stored in compliance with 40 CFR parts 262 through 268 (including the air emission control requirements in 40 CFR part 265, subpart CC).


(1) Unless the owner or operator satisfies the requirements in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, place used solvent-laden cloth, paper, or any other absorbent applicators used for cleaning in bags or other closed containers. Ensure that these bags and containers are kept closed at all times except when depositing or removing these materials from the container. Use bags and containers of such design so as to contain the vapors of the cleaning solvent. Cotton-tipped swabs used for very small cleaning operations are exempt from this requirement.


(2) Unless the owner or operator satisfies the requirements in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, store fresh and spent cleaning solvents, except semi-aqueous solvent cleaners, used in aerospace cleaning operations in closed containers.


(3) Conduct the handling and transfer of cleaning solvents to or from enclosed systems, vats, waste containers, and other cleaning operation equipment that hold or store fresh or spent cleaning solvents in such a manner that minimizes spills.


(4) Demonstrate to the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) that equivalent or better alternative measures are in place compared to the use of closed containers for the solvent-laden materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or the storage of solvents described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(b) *Hand-wipe cleaning.* Each owner or operator of a new or existing hand-wipe cleaning operation (excluding cleaning of spray gun equipment performed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section) subject to this subpart shall use cleaning solvents that meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section. Cleaning solvent solutions that contain HAP and VOC below the de minimis levels specified in § 63.741(f) are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section.


(1) Meet one of the composition requirements in Table 1 of this section;


(2) Have a composite vapor pressure of 45 mm Hg (24.1 in. H_2_ O) or less at 20 °C (68 °F); or


(3) Demonstrate that the volume of hand-wipe solvents used in cleaning operations has been reduced by at least 60% from a baseline adjusted for production. The baseline shall be established as part of an approved alternative plan administered by the State. Demonstrate that the volume of hand-wipe cleaning solvents used in cleaning operations has been reduced by at least 60 percent from a baseline adjusted for production. The baseline shall be calculated using data from 1996 and 1997, or as otherwise agreed upon by the Administrator or delegated State Authority. The baseline shall be approved by the Administrator or delegated State Authority and shall be included as part of the facility's title V or part 70 permit.


(c) *Spray gun cleaning.* Each owner or operator of a new or existing spray gun cleaning operation subject to this subpart in which spray guns are used for the application of coatings or any other materials that require the spray guns to be cleaned shall use one or more of the techniques, or their equivalent, specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. Spray gun cleaning operations using cleaning solvent solutions that contain HAP and VOC below the de minimis levels specified in § 63.741(f) are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.


(1)(i) Enclosed system. Clean the spray gun in an enclosed system that is closed at all times except when inserting or removing the spray gun. Cleaning shall consist of forcing solvent through the gun.


(ii) If leaks are found during the monthly inspection required in § 63.751(a), repairs shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 days after the leak was found. If the leak is not repaired by the 15th day after detection, the cleaning solvent shall be removed, and the enclosed cleaner shall be shut down until the leak is repaired or its use is permanently discontinued.


(2) *Nonatomized cleaning.* Clean the spray gun by placing cleaning solvent in the pressure pot and forcing it through the gun with the atomizing cap in place. No atomizing air is to be used. Direct the cleaning solvent from the spray gun into a vat, drum, or other waste container that is closed when not in use.


(3) Disassembled spray gun cleaning. Disassemble the spray gun and clean the components by hand in a vat, which shall remain closed at all times except when in use. Alternatively, soak the components in a vat, which shall remain closed during the soaking period and when not inserting or removing components.


(4) *Atomizing cleaning.* Clean the spray gun by forcing the cleaning solvent through the gun and direct the resulting atomized spray into a waste container that is fitted with a device designed to capture the atomized cleaning solvent emissions.


(5) Cleaning of the nozzle tips of automated spray equipment systems, except for robotic systems that can be programmed to spray into a closed container, shall be exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.


(d) *Flush cleaning.* Each owner or operator of a flush cleaning operation subject to this subpart (excluding those in which Table 1 or semi-aqueous cleaning solvents are used) shall empty the used cleaning solvent each time aerospace parts or assemblies, or components of a coating unit (with the exception of spray guns) are flush cleaned into an enclosed container or collection system that is kept closed when not in use or into a system with equivalent emission control.


(e) *Exempt cleaning operations.* The following cleaning operations are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section: 


(1) Cleaning during the manufacture, assembly, installation, maintenance, or testing of components of breathing oxygen systems that are exposed to the breathing oxygen;


(2) Cleaning during the manufacture, assembly, installation, maintenance, or testing of parts, subassemblies, or assemblies that are exposed to strong oxidizers or reducers (e.g., nitrogen tetroxide, liquid oxygen, or hydrazine);


(3) Cleaning and surface activation prior to adhesive bonding; 


(4) Cleaning of electronic parts and assemblies containing electronic parts;


(5) Cleaning of aircraft and ground support equipment fluid systems that are exposed to the fluid, including air-to-air heat exchangers and hydraulic fluid systems; 


(6) Cleaning of fuel cells, fuel tanks, and confined spaces; 


(7) Surface cleaning of solar cells, coated optics, and thermal control surfaces; 


(8) Cleaning during fabrication, assembly, installation, and maintenance of upholstery, curtains, carpet, and other textile materials used in the interior of the aircraft; 


(9) Cleaning of metallic and nonmetallic materials used in honeycomb cores during the manufacture or maintenance of these cores, and cleaning of the completed cores used in the manufacture of aerospace vehicles or components;


(10) Cleaning of aircraft transparencies, polycarbonate, or glass substrates;


(11) Cleaning and cleaning solvent usage associated with research and development, quality control, and laboratory testing;


(12) Cleaning operations, using nonflamable liquids, conducted within five feet of energized electrical systems. Energized electrical systems means any AC or DC electrical circuit on an assembled aircraft once electrical power is connected, including interior passenger and cargo areas, wheel wells and tail sections; and


(13) Cleaning operations identified as essential uses under the Montreal Protocol for which the Administrator has allocated essential use allowances or exemptions in 40 CFR 82.4.



---

[N] [60 FR 45956, Sept. 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15018, Mar. 27, 1998; 63 FR 46533, Sept. 1, 1998; 68 FR 37352, June 23, 2003; 80 FR 76181, Dec. 7, 2015]





