# ยง 2570.152   Definitions.

For section 3(40) Finding Proceedings, this section shall apply instead of the definitions in 29 CFR 18.2.


(a) *ERISA* means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, *et seq.,* 29 U.S.C. 1001, *et seq.,* as amended.


(b) *Order* means the whole or part of a final procedural or substantive disposition by the administrative law judge of a matter under section 3(40) of ERISA. No order will be appealable to the Secretary except as provided in this subpart.


(c) *Petition* means a written request under the procedures in this subpart for a finding by the Secretary under section 3(40) of ERISA that a plan is established or maintained under or pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements.


(d) *Petitioner* means the plan or arrangement filing a petition.


(e) *Respondent* means:


(1) A state government instrumentality charged with enforcing the law that is alleged to apply or which has been identified as asserting jurisdiction over a plan or other arrangement, including any agency, commission, board, or committee charged with investigating and enforcing state insurance laws, including parties joined under ยง 2570.153;


(2) The person or entity asserting that state law or state jurisdiction applies to the petitioner;


(3) The Secretary of Labor; and


(4) A state not named in the petition that has intervened under ยง 2570.153(b).


(f) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor, and includes, pursuant to any delegation or sub-delegation of authority, the Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits Security or other employee of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.


(g) *Section 3(40) Finding Proceeding* means a proceeding before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (OALJ) relating to whether the Secretary finds an entity to be a plan to be established or maintained under or pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements within the meaning of section 3(40) of ERISA.




