# § 2.21   Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics (who holds the title of Chief Scientist of the Department).


(1) *Related to research, extension, and education.* (i) Direct, coordinate and provide national leadership and support for research, extension and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences to meet major needs and challenges in development of new food and fiber; food and agriculture viability and competitiveness in the global economy; enhancing economic opportunities and quality of life for rural America; food and agricultural system productivity and development of new crops and new uses; the environment and natural resources; or the promotion of human health and welfare pursuant to the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3101 *et seq.*). 


(ii) Provide national leadership and support for research, extension, and teaching programs in the food and agricultural sciences to carry out sustainable agriculture research and education; a National Plant Genetic Resources Program; a national agricultural weather information system; and any other provisions pursuant to title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-624, 104 Stat. 3703).


(iii) Exercise the authorities of the Secretary in administering the Agriculture Advanced Research and Development Authority, including awarding grants and entering into contracts, cooperative agreements, and other transactions (7 U.S.C. 3319k).


(iv) Carry out research, technology development, technology transfer, and demonstration projects related to the economic feasibility of the manufacture and commercialization of natural rubber from plants containing hydrocarbons and other critical agricultural materials from native agricultural crops having strategic and industrial importance (7 U.S.C. 178-178n).


(v) Conduct research on the control of undesirable species of honey bees in cooperation with specific foreign governments (7 U.S.C. 284). 


(vi) Administer the appropriation for the endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanical arts (7 U.S.C. 321-326a). 


(vii) Administer teaching funds authorized by section 22 of the Bankhead Jones Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 329). 


(viii) Administer a Cooperative Agricultural Extension Program in accordance with the Smith-Lever Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 341-349). 


(ix) Cooperate with the States for the purpose of encouraging and assisting them in carrying out research related to the problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects under the Hatch Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 361a-361i). 


(x) Evaluate, assess, and report to congressional agriculture committees on the merits of proposals for agricultural research facilities in the States, and ensure that each research activity conducted by an Agricultural Research Service facility serves a national or multistate need (7 U.S.C. 390 *et seq.*).


(xi) Conduct research concerning domestic animals and poultry, their protection and use, the causes of contagious, infectious, and communicable diseases, and the means for the prevention and cure of the same (7 U.S.C. 391). 


(xii) Conduct research related to the dairy industry and to the dissemination of information for the promotion of the dairy industry (7 U.S.C. 402). 


(xiii) Conduct research and demonstrations at Mandan, ND, related to dairy livestock breeding, growing, and feeding, and other problems pertaining to the establishment of the dairy and livestock industries (7 U.S.C. 421-422). 


(xiv) Conduct research on new uses for cotton and on cotton ginning and processing (7 U.S.C. 423-424). 


(xv) Administer and conduct research into the basic problems of agriculture in its broadest aspects, including, but not limited to, production, marketing (other than statistical and economic research but including research related to family use of resources), distribution, processing, and utilization of plant and animal commodities; problems of human nutrition; development of markets for agricultural commodities; discovery, introduction, and breeding of new crops, plants, and animals, both foreign and native; conservation development; and development of efficient use of farm buildings, homes, and farm machinery except as otherwise delegated in § 2.22(a)(1)(ii) and § 2.79(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 427, 1621-1627, 1629, 2201, and 2204). 


(xvi) Conduct research on varietal improvement of wheat and feed grains to enhance their conservation and environmental qualities (7 U.S.C. 428b). 


(xvii) Administer a program to make competitive grants to assist in the construction, alteration, acquisition, modernization, renovation, or remodeling of agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 390b).


(xviii) Enter into agreements with and receive funds from any State, other political subdivision, organization, or individual for the purpose of conducting cooperative research projects (7 U.S.C. 3318a). 


(xix) Carry out a program (IR-4 Program) for the collection of residue and efficacy data in support of registration or reregistration of pesticides for minor agricultural use and for use on specialty crops, and to determine tolerances for minor use chemical residues in or on agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 3157(e)).


(xx) Administer the Agriculture and Food Research Initiative for competitive grants for fundamental and applied research, extension, and education to address food and agricultural sciences; administer a program of making special grants for research, extension, or education activities (7 U.S.C. 3157(b), (c)).


(xxi)-(xxii) [Reserved] 


(xxiii) Conduct research related to soil and water conservation, engineering operations, and methods of cultivation to provide for the control and prevention of soil erosion (7 U.S.C. 1010 and 16 U.S.C. 590a). 


(xxiv) Maintain four regional research laboratories and conduct research at such laboratories to develop new scientific, chemical, and technical uses and new and extended markets and outlets for farm commodities and products and the byproducts thereof (7 U.S.C. 1292). 


(xxv) Conduct a Special Cotton Research Program designed to reduce the cost of producing upland cotton in the United States (7 U.S.C. 1444a(c)).


(xxvi) [Reserved]


(xxvii) Conduct research to develop and determine methods for the humane slaughter of livestock (7 U.S.C. 1904). 


(xxviii)-(xxix) [Reserved]


(xxx) Conduct education and extension programs related to nutrition education (7 U.S.C. 2027(a)).


(xxxi) Prepare an annual report to Congress on disbursements of funds for agricultural research and extension at 1890 and 1862 Institutions for programs under the following authorities: 7 U.S.C. 3221; 7 U.S.C. 3222; 7 U.S.C. 343(b) and (c); and 7 U.S.C. 361a *et seq.* (7 U.S.C. 2207d).


(xxxii) Develop and maintain national and international library and information systems and networks and facilitate cooperation and coordination of the agricultural libraries of colleges, universities, USDA, and their closely allied information gathering and dissemination units in conjunction with private industry and other research libraries (7 U.S.C. 2201, 2204, 3125a, and 3126). 


(xxxiii) Accept gifts and order disbursements from the Treasury for carrying out of National Agricultural Library (NAL) functions (7 U.S.C. 2264-2265). 


(xxxiv) Propagate bee-breeding stock and release bee germplasm to the public (7 U.S.C. 283). 


(xxxv) Administer, in cooperation with land-grant colleges and universities where applicable, a rural development research and extension program, a small farm research and extension program, and a rural health and safety education program under the Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2661-2667).


(xxxvi) Administer a cooperative extension program under the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976 (7 U.S.C. 3004). 


(xxxvii) Coordinate the development and carrying out by Department agencies of all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research conducted or funded by the Department involving biotechnology, including the development and implementation of guidelines for oversight of research activities, acting as liaison on all matters and functions pertaining to agricultural research in biotechnology between agencies within the Department and between the Department and other governmental, educational, or private organizations and carrying out any other activities authorized by (7 U.S.C. 3121). 


(xxxviii) [Reserved] 


(xxxix) Establish and oversee the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board (7 U.S.C. 3123). 


(xl) Provide and distribute information and data about Federal, State, local, and other Rural Development Assistance Programs and services available to individuals and organizations. To the extent possible, NAL shall use telecommunications technology to disseminate such information to rural areas (7 U.S.C. 3125b). 


(xli) Assemble and collect food and nutrition educational material, including the results of nutrition research, training methods, procedures, and other materials related to the purposes of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended; maintain such information; and provide for the dissemination of such information and materials on a regular basis to State educational agencies and other interested parties (7 U.S.C. 3126). 


(xlii) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Affairs to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.


(xliv) Promote and strengthen higher education in the food and agricultural sciences; administer grants to colleges and universities; maintain a national food and agricultural education information system; conduct programs regarding the evaluation of teaching programs and continuing education; administer the National Food and Agricultural Sciences Teaching, Extension, and Research Awards Program to recognize and promote excellence in teaching, extension, and research in the food and agricultural sciences; administer programs relating to secondary education and 2-year postsecondary education, including grants to public secondary schools, institutions of higher education that award an associate's degree, other institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations; and report to Congress on the distribution of funds to carry out such teaching programs (7 U.S.C. 3152).


(xlv) Administer a next generation agriculture technology challenge competition to incentivize mobile technology that removes marketplace entry barriers for beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 3158).


(xlvi) Administer the National Agricultural Science Award for research or advanced studies in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3153). 


(xlvii) [Reserved] 


(xlviii) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research and Extension Program (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175).


(xlix) Administer and direct an Animal Health and Disease Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3191-3201). 


(l) Support continuing agricultural and forestry extension and research at 1890 land-grant institutions, including Tuskegee University (7 U.S.C. 3221, 3222, 3222d).


(li) Administer grants to 1890 land-grant colleges, including Tuskegee University, through Federal-grant funds to help finance research facilities and equipment including agricultural libraries (7 U.S.C. 3223). 


(lii) Establish and administer competitive grants to Hispanic-serving Institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of Hispanic-serving Institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3241).


(liii) Provide policy direction and coordinate the Department's work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research, extension, teaching, and development activities; administer a program of competitive grants for collaborative projects involving Federal scientists or scientists from colleges and universities working with scientists at international agricultural research centers in other nations focusing either on new technologies and programs for increasing the production of food and fiber or training scientists and a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities to strengthen United States economic competitiveness and to promote international market development; establish a program in coordination with the Foreign Agricultural Service to place interns from United States colleges and universities at Foreign Agricultural Service field offices overseas; and provide a biennial report to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on efforts of the Federal Government to coordinate international agricultural research within the Federal Government, and to more effectively link the activities of domestic and international agricultural researchers, particularly researchers of the Agricultural Research Service (7 U.S.C. 3291, 3292b).


(liv) Provide for an agricultural research and development program with the United States/Mexico Foundation for Science (7 U.S.C. 3292a). 


(lv) Administer grants to 1890 Institutions, including Tuskegee University, for purposes of awarding scholarships to individuals pursuing careers in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3222a).


(lvi) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research, extension, or teaching programs in the food and agriculture sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318). 


(lvii) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements with State cooperative institutions or other colleges and universities for the acquisition of goods or services in support of research, extension, or teaching activities in the food and agricultural sciences, including the furtherance of library and related information programs (7 U.S.C. 3319a). 


(lviii) Conduct research and development and implement a program for the development of supplemental and alternative crops (7 U.S.C. 3319d). 


(lix) Administer an Aquaculture Assistance Program, involving centers, by making grants to eligible institutions for research and extension to facilitate or expand production and marketing of aquacultural food species and products; making grants to States to formulate Aquaculture development plans for the production and marketing of aquacultural species and products; and conducting a program of research, extension and demonstration at aquacultural demonstration centers (7 U.S.C. 3321-22). 


(lx) Administer a Cooperative Rangeland Research Program (7 U.S.C. 3331-3336). 


(lxi) Conduct a program of basic research on cancer in animals and birds (7 U.S.C. 3902). 


(lxii) Design and implement educational programs and distribute materials in cooperation with the cooperative extension services of the States emphasizing the importance of productive farmland, and designate a farmland information center, pursuant to section 1544 of the Farmland Protection Policy Act (7 U.S.C. 4205). 


(lxiii) Make competitive grants to land-grant colleges and universities, including 1994 Institutions, to provide identifiable support specifically targeted for Tribal students (7 U.S.C. 3222e).




(lxiv) Administer programs and conduct projects for research, extension, and education on sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5811-5813). 


(lxv) Conduct research and cooperative extension programs to optimize crop and livestock production potential, integrated resource management, and integrated crop management (7 U.S.C. 5821). 


(lxvi) Develop and make available handbooks, technical guides, and other educational materials emphasizing sustainable agriculture production systems and practices; carry out activities related to a national training program for sustainable agriculture (7 U.S.C. 5831, 5832).


(lxvii) Administer competitive grants for the acquisition of special purpose scientific research equipment for use in the food and agricultural sciences programs of eligible institutions (7 U.S.C. 3310a).


(lxviii) Administer a national research program on genetic resources to provide for the collection, preservation, and dissemination of genetic material important to American food and agriculture production (7 U.S.C. 5841-5844). 


(lxix) Conduct remote-sensing and other weather-related research (7 U.S.C. 5852). 


(lxx) Establish an Agricultural Weather Office and administer a national agricultural weather information system, including a competitive grants program for research in atmospheric sciences and climatology (7 U.S.C. 5852-5853). 


(lxxi) Administer a research and extension grant program to States to administer programs for State agricultural weather information systems (7 U.S.C. 5854). 


(lxxii) Establish a National Plant Diagnostic Network to monitor and surveil through diagnostics threats to plant health from diseases or pests of concern in the United States, and establish cooperative agreements with land-grant colleges and universities (7 U.S.C. 8914(c)).


(lxxiii) Establish a National Plant Disease Recovery System to engage in strategic long-range planning to recover from high-consequence plant transboundary diseases (7 U.S.C. 8914(d)).


(lxxiv)-(lxxvi) [Reserved]


(lxxvii) Administer research programs and grants for risk assessment research to address concerns about the environmental effects of biotechnology (7 U.S.C. 5921). 


(lxxviii) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy, administer competitive grants to provide education about carbon utilization and biogas (7 U.S.C. 8115).


(lxxix) Conduct a research initiative known as the Agricultural Genome Initiative, and make grants or enter into cooperative agreements on a competitive basis to carry out the Initiative (7 U.S.C. 5924). 


(lxxx) Administer a competitive high priority research and extension grants program in specified subject areas (7 U.S.C. 5925), including pollinator activities (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)) not otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs in § 2.22(a)(2)(xli); prepare an annual report to Congress regarding pollinator issues (7 U.S.C. 5925(g)(5)).


(lxxxi) [Reserved]


(lxxxii) Administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities regarding organically grown and processed agricultural commodities (7 U.S.C. 5925b).


(lxxxiii) In consultation with the Urban Agriculture and Innovative Production Advisory Committee, administer competitive grants to support research, education, and extension activities for the purposes of facilitating the development of urban, indoor, and other emerging agricultural production, harvesting, transportation, aggregation, packaging, distribution, and markets (7 U.S.C. 5925g).


(lxxxiv) Formulate and carry out the Veterinary Medicine Loan Repayment Act program authorized by the National Veterinary Medical Service Act (7 U.S.C. 3151a).


(lxxxv)-(xc) [Reserved] 


(xci) Administer education programs on Indian reservations and tribal jurisdictions (7 U.S.C. 5930). 


(xcii) [Reserved] 


(xciii) Administer a demonstration grants program for support of an assistive technology program for farmers with disabilities (7 U.S.C. 5933). 


(xciv)-(xcvi) [Reserved] 


(xcvii) Administer the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 for USDA (15 U.S.C. 638(e)-(k)). 


(xcviii) Coordinate Departmental policies under the Toxic Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601-2629). 


(xcix) Provide educational and technical assistance in implementing and administering the Conservation Reserve Program authorized in sections 1231-1244 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1509 (16 U.S.C. 3831-3844)). 


(c) Enter into cooperative research and development agreements with industry, universities, and others; institute a cash award program to reward scientific, engineering, and technical personnel; award royalties to inventors; and retain and use royalty income (15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c). 


(ci) Coordinate USDA activities delegated under 15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c. 


(cii) Conduct educational and demonstrational work in Cooperative Farm Forestry Programs (16 U.S.C. 568). 


(ciii) Administer a cooperative forestry program in accordance with the McIntire-Stennis Cooperative Forestry Act, and administer a competitive forestry, natural resources, and environmental grant program (16 U.S.C. 582a-582-8).


(civ) Establish and administer the Forestry Student Grant Program to provide competitive grants to assist the expansion of the professional education of forestry, natural resources, and environmental scientists (16 U.S.C. 1649). 


(cv) Provide for an expanded and comprehensive extension program for forest and rangeland renewable resources (16 U.S.C. 1671-1676). 


(cvi) Provide technical, financial, and educational assistance to State foresters and State extension directors on rural forestry assistance (16 U.S.C. 2102). 


(cvii) Provide educational assistance to State foresters under the Forest Stewardship Program (16 U.S.C. 2103a). 


(cviii) Implement and conduct an educational program to assist the development of Urban and Community Forestry Programs (16 U.S.C. 2105). 


(cix) Provide staff support to the Secretary of Agriculture in his or her role as permanent Chair for the Joint Subcommittee on Aquaculture established by the National Aquaculture Act of 1980 and coordinate aquacultural activities within the Department (16 U.S.C. 2805). 


(cx) Perform research, development, and extension activities in aquaculture (16 U.S.C. 2804 and 2806). 


(cxi) Administer an experienced services program to obtain technical, professional, and administrative services to support the research, education, and economics mission area of the Department (16 U.S.C. 3851).


(cxii) Copy and deliver on demand selected articles and other materials from the Department's collections by photographic reproduction or other means within the permissions, constraints, and limitations of sections 106, 107, and 108 of the Copyright Act of October 19, 1976, (17 U.S.C. 106, 107, and 108). 


(cxiii) Authorize the use of the 4-H Club name and emblem (18 U.S.C. 707). 


(cxiv) Maintain a National Arboretum for the purposes of research and education concerning tree and plant life, and order disbursements from the Treasury, in accordance with the Act of March 4, 1927 (20 U.S.C. 191 *et seq.*). 


(cxv) Conduct research on foot-and-mouth disease and other animal diseases (21 U.S.C. 113a). 


(cxvi) [Reserved]


(cxvii) Obtain and furnish Federal excess property to eligible recipients for use in the conduct of research and extension programs (40 U.S.C. 525(c)).


(cxviii) Conduct research demonstration and promotion activities related to farm dwellings and other buildings for the purposes of reducing costs and adapting and developing fixtures and appurtenances for more efficient and economical farm use (42 U.S.C. 1476(b)). 


(cxix)-(cxx) [Reserved]


(cxxi) Administer a Cooperative Agricultural Extension Program related to agriculture, uses of solar energy with respect to agriculture, home economics, and rural energy in the District of Columbia (D.C. Code 38-1202.09).


(cxxii) [Reserved]


(cxxiii) Exercise the responsibilities of the Secretary under regulations dealing with Equal Employment Opportunity in the Cooperative Extension Service (part 18 of this title). 


(cxxiv) Represent the Department on the Federal Interagency Committee on Education.


(cxxv) Assure the acquisition, preservation, and accessibility of all information concerning food and agriculture by providing leadership to and coordination of the acquisition programs and related activities of the library and information systems, with the agencies of USDA, other Federal departments and agencies, State agricultural experiment stations, colleges and universities, and other research institutions and organizations. 


(cxxvi) Formulate, write, or prescribe bibliographic and technically related standards for the library and information services of USDA (7 U.S.C. 3125a *et seq.*). 


(cxxvii) Determine by survey or other appropriate means, the information needs of the Department's scientific, professional, technical, and administrative staffs, its constituencies, and the general public in the areas of food, agriculture, the environment, and other related areas. 


(cxxviii) Represent the Department on all library and information science matters before Congressional Committees and appropriate commissions, and provide representation to the coordinating committees of the Federal and State governments concerned with library and information science activities. 


(cxxix) Represent the Department in international organizational activities and on international technical committees concerned with agricultural science, education, and development activities, including library and information science activities. 


(cxxx) Prepare and disseminate computer files, indexes and abstracts, bibliographies, reviews, and other analytical information tools. 


(cxxxi) Arrange for the consolidated purchasing and dissemination of printed and automated indexes, abstracts, journals, and other widely used information resources and services. 


(cxxxii) Provide assistance and support to professional organizations and others concerned with library and information science matters and issues. 


(cxxxiii) Pursuant to the authority delegated by the Administrator of General Services to the Secretary of Agriculture in 34 FR 6406, 36 FR 1293, 36 FR 18440, and 38 FR 23838, appoint uniformed armed guards and special policemen, make all needful rules and regulations, and annex to such rules and regulations such reasonable penalties (not to exceed those prescribed in 40 U.S.C. 318(c), as will ensure their enforcement, for the protection of persons, property, buildings, and grounds of the Arboretum, Washington, DC; the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center, Clay Center, NE; the Agricultural Research Center, Beltsville, MD; and the Animal Disease Center, Plum Island, NY, over which the United States has exclusive or concurrent criminal jurisdiction, in accordance with the limitations and requirements of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 471 *et seq.*), the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (40 U.S.C. 318 *et seq.*), and the policies, procedures, and controls prescribed by the General Services Administration. Any rules or regulations promulgated under this authority shall be approved by the Director, Office of Operations, and the General Counsel prior to issuance. 


(cxxxiv) Represent the Department on the National Science and Technology Council. 


(cxxxv) Administer the Department's Patent Program except as delegated to the General Counsel in § 2.31(a)(5).


(cxxxvi) Review cooperative research and development agreements entered into pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3710a-3710c, with authority to disapprove or require the modification of any such agreement. 


(cxxxvii) Establish and administer a 1994 Institutions Endowment Fund and to enter into agreements necessary to do this (Section 533(b) and (c) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(cxxxviii) Make grants in equal amounts to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to be used in the same manner as is prescribed for colleges under the Act of August 30, 1890 (7 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.*), and subject to the requirements of such Act (Section 534(a) of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(cxxxix) Make competitive Institutional Capacity Building Grants to assist 1994 Land-Grant Institutions with constructing, acquiring, and remodeling buildings, laboratories, and other capital facilities (including fixtures and equipment) necessary to conduct instructional activities more effectively in agriculture and sciences (Section 535 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(cxl) Make competitive grants to 1994 Land-Grant Institutions to conduct agricultural research that addresses high priority concerns of tribal, national, or multistate significance (Section 536 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301 note). 


(cxli) Implement and administer the Community Food Projects Program under section 25 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2034).

(cxlii) In consultation with the Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, administer pilot projects to encourage the use of public-private partnerships committed to addressing food insecurity (7 U.S.C. 2036d).


(cxliii) Coordinate the Department of Agriculture summer intern program pursuant to section 922 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act (7 U.S.C. 2279c). 


(cxliv) Develop and carry out a system to monitor and evaluate agricultural research and extension activities conducted or supported by the Department that will enable the Secretary to measure the impact and effectiveness of research, extension, and education programs according to priorities, goals, and mandates established by law. Conduct a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art information technology systems for use in developing the system (7 U.S.C. 3129). 


(cxlv)-(cxlvi) [Reserved]


(cliii) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for relevancy and merit review of each agricultural research, extension, or education grant administered on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)).


(cl) Provide technical assistance to farmers and ranchers under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (16 U.S.C. 3830 *et seq.*). 


(cli) Ensure that agricultural research conducted by the Agricultural Research Service, and agricultural research, extension, or education activities administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture on a competitive basis address a concern that is a priority and has national, multistate, or regional significance (7 U.S.C. 7611). 


(clii) Solicit and consider input and recommendations from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education and, after consultation with appropriate subcabinet officials, establish priorities for agricultural research, extension, and education activities conducted or funded by the Department; promulgate regulations concerning implementation of a process for obtaining stakeholder input at 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institutions and Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; and ensure that federally supported and conducted agricultural research, extension, and education activities are accomplished in accord with identified management principles (7 U.S.C. 7612).


(cliii) Establish procedures that provide for scientific peer review of each agricultural research grant administered on a competitive basis, and for merit review of each agricultural extension or education grant administered, on a competitive basis, by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 7613(a)). 


(cliv) Consider the results of the annual review performed by the National Agricultural Research, Extension, Education, and Economics Advisory Board regarding the relevance to priorities of the funding of all agricultural research, extension, or education activities conducted or funded by the Department and the adequacy of funding, when formulating each request for proposals, and evaluating proposals, involving an agricultural research, extension, or education activity funded, on a competitive basis, by the Department; and solicit and consider input from persons who conduct or use agricultural research, extension, or education regarding the prior year's request for proposals for each activity funded on a competitive basis (7 U.S.C. 7613(c)).


(clv) Establish, in consultation with appropriate subcabinet officials, procedures to ensure scientific peer review of all research activities conducted by the Department (7 U.S.C. 7613(d)). 


(clvi) Require a procedure to be established by each 1862, 1890, and 1994 Institution and Hispanic-serving agricultural college and university, for merit review of each agricultural research and extension activity funded and review of the activity in accordance with the procedure (7 U.S.C. 7613(e)).


(clvii)-(clix) [Reserved] 


(clx) Coordinate the resources of the Department to develop, commercialize, and promote the use of biobased products, and enter into cooperative agreements with private entities to operate pilot plants and other large-scale preparation facilities under which the facilities and technical expertise of the Agricultural Research Service may be made available (7 U.S.C. 7624). 


(clxi) [Reserved] 


(clxii) Administer competitive grants for integrated, multifunctional agricultural research, education, and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 7626). 


(clxiii) Administer a coordinated program of research, extension, and education to improve the competitiveness, viability, and sustainability of small and medium size dairy, livestock, and poultry operations (7 U.S.C. 7627). 


(clxiv) Administer grants to consortia of land-grant colleges and universities to enhance the ability of the consortia to carry out multi-State research projects aimed at understanding and combating diseases of wheat, triticale, and barley caused by Fusarium graminearum and related fungi or Tilletia indica and related fungi (7 U.S.C. 7628).


(clxv) Operate and administer the Food Animal Residue Avoidance Database through contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements with appropriate colleges or universities (7 U.S.C. 7642). 


(clxvi) Update on a periodic basis, nutrient composition data and report to Congress the method that will be used to update the data and the timing of the update (7 U.S.C. 7651). 


(clxvii) Establish and maintain a Food Safety Research Information Office at the National Agricultural Library to provide to the research community and the general public information on publicly and privately funded food safety research initiatives (7 U.S.C. 7654(a)). 


(clxviii) Develop a national program of safe food handling education for adults and young people to reduce the risk of food-borne illness (7 U.S.C. 7655). 


(clxix) Conduct a performance evaluation to determine whether federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs result in public goods that have national or multistate significance, including through a contract with one or more entities to provide input and recommendations with respect to federally funded agricultural research, extension, and education programs (7 U.S.C. 7671). 


(clxx) [Reserved]


(clxxi) Take a census of agriculture in 1998 and every fifth year thereafter pursuant to the Census of Agriculture Act of 1997, Public Law 105-113 (7 U.S.C. 2204g); ensure that the census of agriculture documents the number, location, and economic contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in agricultural production (7 U.S.C. 2279(h)).


(clxxii) Cooperate with other Federal agencies (including the National Science Foundation) in issuing joint requests for proposals, awarding grants, and administering grants under any competitive agricultural research, education, or extension grant program (7 U.S.C. 3319b).


(clxxiii) Administer a program of competitive grants, establish education teams, and establish an online clearinghouse of curricula and training materials and programs, all for training, education, outreach, and technical assistance initiatives for the benefit of beginning farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2279d).


(clxxiv) Administer agricultural research, education, and extension activities (including through competitive grants), using any authority available to the Secretary, to reduce the vulnerability of the United States food and agricultural system to chemical or biological attack, to continue partnerships with institutions of higher education and other institutions to help form stable, long-term programs to enhance the biosecurity of the United States, to make competitive grants to universities and qualified research institutions for research on counterbioterrorsims, and to counter or otherwise respond to chemical or biological attack (7 U.S.C. 3351).


(clxxv) Administer a program of competitive grants to colleges and universities for expansion and security upgrades to enhance the security of agriculture against bioterrorism threats (7 U.S.C. 3352).


(clxxvi) Administer programs for distance education grants and resident instruction grants to eligible institutions in insular areas that have demonstrable capacity to carry out teaching and extension programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3361-3363).


(clxxvii) [Reserved]


(clxxviii) Administer a program of cooperative research (including through competitive award of grants and cooperative agreements to colleges and universities) and extension projects on carbon cycling in soils and plants, the exchange of other greenhouse gases from agriculture, and the carbon sequestration benefits of conservation practices (7 U.S.C. 6711).


(clxxix) [Reserved]


(clxxx) Administer a program of grants to the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, the Boy Scouts of America, the National 4-H Council, and the National FFA Organization to establish pilot projects to expand the programs carried out by the organizations in rural areas and small towns (7 U.S.C. 7630).


(clxxxi) Oversee implementation of the termination of Federal schedule A civil service appointments of State agricultural extension employees at land-grant colleges and universities (section 7220 of Pub. L. 107-171).


(clxxxii) Administer a program of grants to the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute (section 10805 of Pub. L. 107-171). 


(clxxxiii) Administer grants to assist the land-grant university in the District of Columbia to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-1).


(clxxxiv) Administer grants to assist the land-grant colleges and universities in insular areas to acquire, alter, or repair facilities or relevant equipment necessary for conducting agricultural research; and to support tropical and subtropical agricultural research, including pest and disease research (7 U.S.C. 3222b-2).


(clxxxv) Enter into agreements necessary to administer an Hispanic-Serving Agricultural Colleges and Universities Fund; enter into agreements necessary to administer a program of making annual payments to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer an institutional capacity-building grants program for Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities; administer a competitive grants program to fund fundamental and applied research and extension at Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities and to award competitive grants to Hispanic-serving agricultural colleges and universities to provide for training in the food and agricultural sciences of Hispanic agricultural workers and Hispanic youth working in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3243).


(clxxxvi) Administer the New Era Rural Technology Program to make grants for technology development, applied research, and training to aid in the development of an agriculture-based renewable energy workforce (7 U.S.C. 3319e).


(clxxxvii) Administer a competitive grants program to assist NLGCA Institutions in maintaining and expanding capacity to conduct education, research, and outreach activities relating to agriculture, renewable resources, and other similar disciplines (7 U.S.C. 3319i).


(clxxxviii) [Reserved]


(clxxxix) Administer a competitive research and extension grants program to improve the farm management knowledge and skills of agricultural producers and establish and maintain a national, publicly available farm financial management database to support improved farm management (7 U.S.C. 5925f).


(cxc) Administer the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (7 U.S.C. 7632).


(cxci) Exchange, sell, or otherwise dispose of animals, animal products, plants, and plant products, and use the sale or other proceeds to acquire such items or to offset costs related to the maintenance, care, or feeding of such items (7 U.S.C. 2241a).


(cxcii) Establish and administer a pilot program at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center and National Agricultural Library to lease nonexcess property (7 U.S.C. 3125a note).


(cxciii) Lease land at the Grazinglands Research Laboratory at El Reno, Oklahoma, pursuant to section 7503 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246).


(cxciv) Administer a competitive research and education grants program relating to antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (7 U.S.C. 3202).


(cxcv) Administer a competitive grants program to establish and maintain a Farm and Ranch Stress Assistance Network (7 U.S.C. 5936).


(cxcvi) [Reserved]


(cxcvii) Administer a natural products research program (7 U.S.C. 5937).


(cxcviii) Administer a Sun Grants Program (7 U.S.C. 8114).


(cxcix) [Reserved] 


(cc) Administer a competitive grant program to support the development and expansion of advanced training programs in agricultural biosecurity planning and response for food science professionals and veterinarians (7 U.S.C. 8913).


(cci) Administer the Biomass Research and Development Initiative (7 U.S.C. 8108(e)); consult and coordinate, as appropriate, with the Under Secretary for RD and other mission areas of the Department as deemed necessary in carrying the authorities delegated herein; serve as the designated point of contact referenced in 7 U.S.C. 8108 for the Department for purposes of administering the Biomass Research and Development Initiative.


(ccii) Administer a competitive grants program to encourage basic and applied research and the development of qualified agricultural countermeasures (7 U.S.C. 8921).


(cciii) Administer a competitive grants program to promote the development of teaching programs in agriculture, veterinary medicine, and disciplines closely allied to the food and agriculture system to increase the number of trained individuals with an expertise in agricultural biosecurity (7 U.S.C. 8922).


(cciv) Administer a program of providing grants to Alaska Native serving institutions and Native Hawaiian serving institutions for the purpose of promoting and strengthening the ability of those institutions to carry out education, applied research, and related community development programs (7 U.S.C. 3156).


(ccv) Administer a competitive grant program for national food safety training, education, extension, outreach, and technical assistance (7 U.S.C. 7625).


(ccvi) Administer a food insecurity nutrition incentive program (7 U.S.C. 7517).


(ccvii) Administer a food and agriculture service learning grant program (7 U.S.C. 7633).


(ccviii) Administer a veterinary services grant program (7 U.S.C. 3151b).


(ccix) Enter into grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, or other legal instruments with former Department of Agriculture agricultural research facilities (7 U.S.C. 3315(b)).


(ccx) Administer a forestry and forestry products research and extension initiative (7 U.S.C. 7655b).


(ccxi) Submit to Congress an annual report describing agricultural research, extension, and education activities carried out by the Federal Government (7 U.S.C. 7614c(f)).


(ccxii) Enter into cooperative agreements with institutions of higher education regarding the dissemination of agricultural and food law research, legal tools, and information (7 U.S.C. 3125a-1).


(ccxiii) Consult with the Foundation for Food and Agriculture Research regarding the identification of existing and proposed Federal intramural and extramural research and development programs relating to the purposes of the Foundation and the coordination of Foundation activities with those programs for the purpose of minimizing duplication of existing efforts and avoiding conflicts (7 U.S.C. 5939(d)(1)(B)).


(2) *Related to committee management.* Establish or reestablish regional, state and local advisory committees for the activities authorized. This authority may not be redelegated. 


(3) *Related to defense and emergency preparedness.* Administer the responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning scientific and educational programs; estimates of supplies of agricultural commodities and evaluation of requirements therefor; coordination of damage assessment; food and agricultural aspects of economic stabilization, economic research, and agricultural statistics; and the coordination of energy programs. 


(4) Related to rural development activities. Provide guidance and direction for the accomplishment of activities authorized under Section V of the Rural Development Act of 1972, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2661 *et seq.*), for programs under the control of the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics, coordinating the policy aspects thereof with the Under Secretary for Rural Development. 


(5) *Related to environmental response.* With respect to land and facilities under his or her authority, exercise the functions delegated to the Secretary by Executive Order 12580, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 193, under the following provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“the Act”), as amended: 


(i) Sections 104 (a), (b), and (c)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604 (a), (b), and (c)(4)), with respect to removal and remedial actions in the event of release or threatened release of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant into the environment; 


(ii) Sections 104(e)-(h) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(e)-(h)), with respect to information gathering and access requests and orders; compliance with Federal health and safety standards and wage and labor standards applicable to covered work; and emergency procurement powers; 


(iii) Section 104(i)(11) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(i)(11)), with respect to the reduction of exposure to significant risk to human health; 


(iv) Section 104(j) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9604(j)), with respect to the acquisition of real property and interests in real property required to conduct a remedial action; 


(v) The first two sentences of section 105(d) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(d)), with respect to petitions for preliminary assessment of a release or threatened release; 


(vi) Section 105(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9605(f)), with respect to consideration of the availability of qualified minority firms in awarding contracts, but excluding that portion of section 105(f) pertaining to the annual report to Congress; 


(vii) Section 109 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9609), with respect to the assessment of civil penalties for violations of section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), and the granting of awards to individuals providing information; 


(viii) Section 111(f) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9611(f)), with respect to the designation of officials who may obligate money in the Hazardous Substances Superfund; 


(ix) Section 113(k) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9613(k)), with respect to establishing an administrative record upon which to base the selection of a response action and identifying and notifying potentially responsible parties; 


(x) Section 116(a) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9616(a)), with respect to preliminary assessment and site inspection of facilities; 


(xi) Sections 117 (a) and (c) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9617 (a) and (c)), with respect to public participation in the preparation of any plan for remedial action and explanation of variances from the final remedial action plan for any remedial action or enforcement action, including any settlement or consent decree entered into; 


(xii) Section 119 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9119), with respect to indemnifying response action contractors; 


(xiii) Section 121 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9621), with respect to cleanup standards; and 


(xiv) Section 122 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622), with respect to settlements, but excluding section 122(b)(1) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 9622(b)(1)), related to mixed funding agreements. 


(6) *Related to compliance with environmental laws.* With respect to facilities and activities under his or her authority, to exercise the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to section 1-102 related to compliance with applicable pollution control standards and section 1-601 of Executive Order 12088, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 243, to enter into an inter-agency agreement with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or an administrative consent order or a consent judgment in an appropriate State, interstate, or local agency, containing a plan and schedule to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable pollution control standards established pursuant to the following: 


(i) Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as further amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments, and the Federal Facility Compliance Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 *et seq.*); 


(ii) Federal Water Pollution Prevention and Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 *et seq.*); 


(iii) Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 300f *et seq.*); 


(iv) Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 *et seq.*); 


(v) Noise Control Act of 1972, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4901 *et seq.*); 


(vi) Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*); 


(vii) Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 136 *et seq.*); and 


(viii) Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 9601 *et seq.*). 


(7) *Related to national food and human nutrition research.* (i) Administer a National Food and Human Nutrition Research Program under the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as amended. As used herein the term “research” includes: 


(A) Research on the nutrient composition of foods and the effects of agricultural practices, handling, food processing, and cooking on the nutrients they contain; 


(B) Surveillance of the nutritional benefits provided to participants in the food programs administered by the Department; and 


(C) Research on the factors affecting food preference and habits (7 U.S.C. 3171-3173, 3175).


(ii) The authority in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section includes the authority to: 


(A) Appraise the nutritive content of the U.S. food supply; 


(B) Develop and make available data on the nutrient composition of foods needed by Federal, State, and local agencies administering food and nutrition programs, and the general public, to improve the nutritional quality of diets; 


(C) Coordinate nutrition education research projects within the Department; and 


(D) Maintain data generated on food composition in a National Nutrient Data Bank. 


(iii) Conduct, in cooperation with the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Program. Included in this delegation is the authority to: 


(A) Design and carry out periodic nationwide food consumption surveys to measure household food consumption; 


(B) Design and carry out a continuous, longitudinal individual intake survey of the United States population and special high-risk groups; and 


(C) Design and carry out methodological research studies to develop improved procedures for collecting household and individual food intake consumption data; 


(iv) [Reserved] 


(v) Co-chair with the Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human Services, the Interagency Board for Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research for the development and coordination of a Ten-Year Comprehensive Plan as required by Pub. L. No. 101-445, 7 U.S.C. 5301 *et seq.*

(8) *Related to economic research and statistical reporting.* (i) Conduct economic research on matters of importance to cooperatives as authorized by the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627). 


(ii) Conduct economic and social science research and analyses relating to: 


(A) Food and agriculture situation and outlook; 


(B) The production, marketing, and distribution of food and fiber products (excluding forest and forest products), including studies of the performance of the food and agricultural sector of the economy in meeting needs and wants of consumers; 


(C) Basic and long-range, worldwide, economic analyses and research on supply, demand, and trade in food and fiber products and the effects on the U.S. food and agriculture system, including general economic analyses of the international financial and monetary aspects of agricultural affairs; 


(D) Natural resources, including studies of the use and management of land and water resources, the quality of these resources, resource institutions, and watershed and river basin development problems; and 


(E) Rural people and communities, as authorized by title II of the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621-1627), and the Act of June 29, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 427). 


(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) Prepare crop and livestock estimates and administer reporting programs, including estimates of production, supply, price, and other aspects of the U.S. agricultural economy, collection of statistics, conduct of enumerative and objective measurement surveys, construction and maintenance of sampling frames, and related activities. Prepare reports of the Agricultural Statistics Board covering official state and national estimates (7 U.S.C. 476, 951, and 2204). 


(v) Take such security precautions as are necessary to prevent disclosure of crop or livestock report information prior to the scheduled issuance time approved in advance by the Secretary of Agriculture and take such actions as are necessary to avoid disclosure of confidential data or information supplied by any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association (18 U.S.C. 1902, 1903, and 2072). 


(vi) Improve statistics in the Department; maintain liaison with OMB and other Federal agencies for coordination of statistical methods and techniques. 


(vii) Investigate and make findings as to the effect upon the production of food and upon the agricultural economy of any proposed action pending before the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for presentation in the public interest, before said Administrator, other agencies, or before the courts. 


(viii) Review economic data and analyses used in speeches by Department personnel and in materials prepared for release through the press, radio, and television. 


(ix) Coordinate all economic analysis and review all decisions involving substantial economic policy implications. 


(x) Cooperate and work with national and international institutions and other persons throughout the world in the performance of agricultural research and extension activities to promote and support the development of a viable and sustainable global and agricultural system. Such work may be carried out by: 


(A) Exchanging research materials and results with the institutions or persons; 


(B) Engaging in joint or coordinated research; 


(C) Entering into cooperative arrangements with Departments and Ministries of Agriculture in other nations to conduct research, extension; and education activities (limited to arrangements either involving no exchange of funds or involving disbursements by the agency to the institutions of other nations), and then reporting these arrangements to the Secretary of Agriculture; 


(D) Stationing representatives at such institutions or organizations in foreign countries; or 


(E) Entering into agreements with land-grant colleges and universities, other organizations, institutions, or individuals with comparable goals, and with the concurrence of the Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, international organizations (limited to agreements either involving no exchange of funds or involving disbursements by the agency to the cooperator), and then reporting these agreements to the Secretary of Agriculture (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)). 


(xi) Collect and, not less frequently than once every 3 years report, data and analysis on farmland ownership, tenure, transition, and entry of beginning farmers and ranchers and socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers (7 U.S.C. 2204i).


(xii) Enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements to further research and statistical reporting programs in the food and agricultural sciences (7 U.S.C. 3318). 


(xiii) Enter into cost-reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research and statistical reporting (7 U.S.C. 3319a). 


(xiv) Conduct surveys and analysis and publish reports relating to organic production, handling, distribution, retail, and trend studies (including consumer purchasing patterns); develop surveys and report statistical analysis on organically produced agricultural products (7 U.S.C. 5925c).


(xv) Assist the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs with respect to Dairy Product Mandatory Reporting (7 U.S.C. 1637-1637b).


(xvi) Include in each issuance of projections of net farm income an estimate of the net farm income earned by commercial producers in the United States that will in addition show the estimate of net farm income attributable to commercial producers of livestock, loan commodities, and agricultural commodities other than loan commodities (7 U.S.C. 7998). 


(xvii) Ensure that studies carried out by the Economic Research Service document the number, location, and economic contributions of socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in agricultural production (7 U.S.C. 2279(h)).


(xviii) Coordinate implementation of section 10016 of the Agricultural Act of 2014 regarding locally or regionally produced agricultural food products (7 U.S.C. 2204h).


(9) *Related to immigration.* Serve as the designee of the Secretary pursuant to Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1182(e) and 22 CFR 41.63(2)(3).


(10) *Related to hazardous materials management.* (i) Serve on the USDA Hazardous Materials Policy Council. 


(ii) Recommend actions and policies that enable USDA agencies under his or her authority to comply with the intent, purposes, and standards of environmental laws for pollution prevention, control, and abatement. 


(iii) Consult with the United States Environmental Protection Agency and other appropriate Federal agencies in developing pollution prevention, control, and abatement policies and programs relating to agencies under his or her authority. 


(11) *Related to scientific integrity.* (i) Provide to the Secretary information on topics that can benefit from scientific input to ensure informed decision-making at the highest levels of Government.


(ii) Facilitate the coordination and collaboration within the Department on high priority science issues that will benefit from intra-Departmental collaboration, including coordinating the assessment of the relevance, quality, performance, and impact of the Department's efforts in science.


(iii) Build partnerships within the scientific community by serving as a point of contact for interactions with other agencies of science, universities, and other external members of the scientific community for the purpose of leveraging and promoting relationships to explore common scientific interests and shared goals.


(iv) Develop mechanisms to address scientific integrity within the Department.


(v) Serve as Chair of the USDA Science Council.


(12) *Related to coordination of agricultural research, education, and extension programs and activities.* Coordinate the agricultural research, education, and extension activities of the Department pursuant to sections 251(c)(2) and 251(d)(2) of the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 6971(c)(2), (d)(2)).


(13) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in § 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture: 


(1) *Related to science and education.*

(i)-(iii) [Reserved]


(iv) Final concurrence in Equal Employment Opportunity Programs within the cooperative extension programs submitted under part 18 of this title.


(2) *Related to economic research and statistical reporting.*

(i) Final approval and issuance of the crop and livestock reports.


(ii) Final action on rules and regulations for the agricultural statistics board.


(3) Approval of prize competitions that may result in the award of more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes under section 24(m)(4)(B) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719(m)(4)(B)).



---

[N] [60 FR 56393, Nov. 8, 1995]


