# § 173.4   Correction of clerical error, mistake of fact, or inadvertence.

(a) *Authority to review and correct entries of merchandise made, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, before December 18, 2004.* Even though a valid protest was not filed, the Center director, upon timely application and for entries of merchandise made, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, before December 18, 2004, may correct pursuant to section 520(c)(1), Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, a clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, by reliquidation or other appropriate action.


(1) *Transactions that may be corrected.* Correction may be made to any entry, liquidation, or other customs transaction made before December 18, 2004, if the clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence:


(i) Does not amount to an error in the construction of a law;


(ii) Is adverse to the importer; and


(iii) Is manifest from the record or established by documentary evidence.


(2) *Limitation on time for application.* A clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be brought to the attention of the Center director or other appropriate CBP officer within 1 year after the date of liquidation or exaction. The party requesting reliquidation under this section must state, to the best of his or her knowledge, whether the entry for which correction is requested is the subject of a drawback claim, or whether the entry has been referenced on a certificate of delivery or certificate of manufacture and delivery so as to enable a party to make such entry the subject of drawback (*see* §§ 181.50(b) and 191.81(b) of this chapter).


(b) *Entries of merchandise made, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after December 18, 2004.* For merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after December 18, 2004, CBP does not have the authority, in situations where a valid protest has not been filed, to reliquidate an entry to correct a clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence. For merchandise entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after December 18, 2004, and except as provided for in sections 501 (relating to voluntary reliquidations), 516 (relating to petitions by domestic interested parties), and 520 (related to refunds) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, a CBP decision involving any clerical error, mistake of fact, or other inadvertence, whether or not resulting from or contained in an electronic submission, that is adverse to the importer in any entry, liquidation or reliquidation, may be corrected by protest only. *See* 19 CFR 174.11.


(c) *“Liquidation” includes reliquidation.* “Liquidation,” as used in this section, includes reliquidation of an entry.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 11-02, 76 FR 2577, Jan. 14, 2011]




