# § 351.509   Direct taxes.

(a) *Benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a program that provides for a full or partial exemption or remission of a direct tax (for example, an income tax), or a reduction in the base used to calculate a direct tax, a benefit exists to the extent that the tax paid by a firm as a result of the program is less than the tax the firm would have paid in the absence of the program, including as a result of being located in an area designated by the government as being outside the customs territory of the country.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of a program that provides for a deferral of direct taxes, a benefit exists to the extent that appropriate interest charges are not collected. Normally, a deferral of direct taxes will be treated as a government-provided loan in the amount of the tax deferred, according to the methodology described in § 351.505. The Secretary will use a short-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of one year or less. The Secretary will use a long-term interest rate as the benchmark for tax deferrals of more than one year.




(b) *Time of receipt of benefit*—(1) *Exemption or remission of taxes.* In the case of a full or partial exemption or remission of a direct tax, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the date on which the recipient firm would otherwise have had to pay the taxes associated with the exemption or remission. For all exemptions or remissions related to income taxes, this date will be the date on which the firm filed its tax return.

(2) *Deferral of taxes.* In the case of a tax deferral of one year or less, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the date on which the deferred tax becomes due. In the case of a multi-year deferral, the Secretary normally will consider the benefit as having been received on the anniversary date(s) of the deferral.


(c) *Allocation of benefit to a particular time period.* The Secretary normally will allocate (expense) the benefit of a full or partial exemption, remission, or deferral of a direct tax to the year in which the benefit is considered to have been received under paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Benefit not tied to particular markets or products.* If a program provides for a full or partial exemption, reduction, credit, or remission of an income tax, the Secretary normally will consider any benefit to be not tied with respect to a particular market under § 351.525(b)(4) or to a particular product under § 351.525(b)(5).





---

[N] [63 FR 65407, Nov. 25, 1998, as amended at 89 FR 20841, Mar. 25, 2024; 89 FR 101766, Dec. 16, 2024]








