# § 179.15   Pressure relief devices.

Except for DOT Class 106, 107, 110, and 113 tank cars, tanks must have a pressure relief device, made of material compatible with the lading, that conforms to the following requirements:


(a) *Performance standard.* Each tank must have a pressure relief device, made of materials compatible with the lading, having sufficient flow capacity to prevent pressure build-up in the tank to no more than the flow rating pressure of the pressure relief device in fire conditions as defined in appendix A of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars (IBR, see § 171.7 of this subchapter).


(b) *Settings for reclosing pressure relief devices.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a reclosing pressure relief valve must have a minimum start-to-discharge pressure equal to the sum of the static head and gas padding pressure and the lading vapor pressure at the following reference temperatures:


(i) 46 °C (115 °F) for noninsulated tanks;


(ii) 43 °C (110 °F) for tanks having a thermal protection system incorporating a metal jacket that provides an overall thermal conductance at 15.5 °C (60 °F) of no more than 10.22 kilojoules per hour per square meter per degree Celsius (0.5 Btu per hour/per square foot/per degree F) temperature differential; and


(iii) 41 °C (105 °F) for insulated tanks.


(2)(i) The start-to-discharge pressure of a pressure relief device may not be lower than 5.17 Bar (75 psig) or exceed 33 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure.


(ii) Tanks built prior to October 1, 1997 having a minimum tank burst pressure of 34.47 Bar (500 psig) or less may be equipped with a reclosing pressure relief valve having a start-to-discharge pressure of not less than 14.5 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure but no more than 33 percent of the minimum tank burst pressure.


(3) The vapor tight pressure of a reclosing pressure relief valve must be at least 80 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure.


(4) The flow rating pressure must be 110 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure for tanks having a minimum tank burst pressure greater than 34.47 Bar (500 psig) and from 110 percent to 130 percent for tanks having a minimum tank burst pressure less than or equal to 34.47 Bar (500 psig).


(5) The tolerance for a reclosing pressure relief valve is ±3 psi for valves with a start-to-discharge pressure of 6.89 Bar (100 psig) or less and ±3 percent for valves with a start-to-discharge pressure greater than 6.89 Bar (100 psig).


(c) *Flow capacity of pressure relief devices.* The total flow capacity of each reclosing and nonreclosing pressure relief device must conform to appendix A of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars.


(d) *Flow capacity tests.* The manufacturer of any reclosing or nonreclosing pressure relief device must design and test the device in accordance with appendix A of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars.


(e) *Combination pressure relief systems.* A non-reclosing pressure relief device may be used in series with a reclosing pressure relief valve. The pressure relief valve must be located outboard of the non-reclosing pressure relief device.


(1) When a breaking pin device is used in combination with a reclosing pressure relief valve, the breaking pin must be designed to fail at the start-to-discharge pressure specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and the reclosing pressure relief valve must be designed to discharge at not greater than 95 percent of the start-to-discharge pressure.


(2) When a rupture disc is used in combination with a reclosing pressure relief valve, the rupture disc must be designed to burst at the pressure specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and the reclosing pressure relief valve must be designed to discharge at not greater than 95 percent of the pressure. A device must be installed to detect any accumulation of pressure between the rupture disc and the reclosing pressure relief valve. The detection device must be a needle valve, trycock, or tell-tale indicator. The detection device must be closed during transportation.


(3) The vapor tight pressure and the start-to-discharge tolerance is based on the discharge setting of the reclosing pressure relief device.


(f) *Nonreclosing pressure relief device.* In addition to paragraphs (a), (b)(4), (c), and (d) of this section, a nonreclosing pressure relief device must conform to the following requirements:


(1) A non-reclosing pressure relief device must incorporate a rupture disc designed to burst at a pressure equal to the greater of 100% of the tank test pressure, or 33% of the tank burst pressure.


(2) The approach channel and the discharge channel may not reduce the required minimum flow capacity of the pressure relief device.


(3) The non-reclosing pressure relief device must be designed to prevent interchange with other fittings installed on the tank car, must have a structure that encloses and clamps the rupture disc in position (preventing any distortion or damage to the rupture disc when properly applied), and must have a cover, with suitable means of preventing misplacement, designed to direct any discharge of the lading downward.


(4) The non-reclosing pressure relief device must be closed with a rupture disc that is compatible with the lading and manufactured in accordance with Appendix A of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars. The tolerance for a rupture disc is + 0 to −15 percent of the burst pressure marked on the disc.


(g) *Location of relief devices.* Each pressure relief device must communicate with the vapor space above the lading as near as practicable on the longitudinal center line and center of the tank.


(h) *Marking of pressure relief devices.* Each pressure relief device and rupture disc must be permanently marked in accordance with the appendix A of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars.



---

[N] [Amdt. 179-52, 61 FR 28678, June 5, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 179-52, 61 FR 50255, Sept. 25, 1996; 62 FR 51561, Oct. 1, 1997; 64 FR 51919, Sept. 27, 1999; 66 FR 45390, Aug. 28, 2001; 68 FR 75759, Dec. 31, 2003]




