# § 606.20   Cap on tax credit reduction.

(a) *Applicability.* Subsection (f) of section 3302 of FUTA authorizes a limitation (cap) on the reduction of tax credits by reason of an outstanding balance of advances, if the OWS Administrator determines with respect to a State, on or before November 10 of a taxable year, that— 


(1) No action was taken by the State during the 12-month period ending on September 30 of such taxable year which has resulted, or will result, in a reduction in the State's unemployment tax effort, as defined in § 606.21(a); 


(2) No action was taken by the State during the 12-month period ending on September 30 of such taxable year which has resulted, or will result, in a net decrease in the solvency of the State unemployment compensation system, as defined in § 606.21(b); 


(3) The State unemployment tax rate (as defined in § 606.3) for the taxable year equals or exceeds the average benefit-cost ratio (as defined in § 606.3) for the calendar years in the five-calendar year period ending with the calendar year immediately preceding the taxable year for which the cap is requested, under the rules specified in § 606.21 (c) and (d); and 


(4) The outstanding balance of advances to the State on September 30 of the taxable year was not greater than the outstanding balance of advances to the State on September 30 of the third preceding taxable year. 


(b) *Maximum tax credit reduction.* If a State qualifies for a cap, the maximum tax credit reduction for the taxable year shall not exceed 0.6 percent, or, if higher, the tax credit reduction that was in effect for the taxable year preceding the taxable year for which the cap is requested. 


(c) *Year not taken into account.* If a State qualifies for a cap for any year, the year and January 1 of the year to which the cap applies will not be taken into account for purposes of determining reduction of tax credit for subsequent taxable years. 


(d) *Partial caps.* Partial caps obtained under subsection (f)(8) are no longer available. Nevertheless, for the purposes of applying section 3302(c)(2) to subsequent taxable years, partial cap credits earned will be taken into account for purposes of determining reduction of tax credits. Also, the taxable year to which the partial cap applied (and January 1 thereof) will be taken into account for purposes of determining reduction of tax credits for subsequent taxable years. 



---

[N] [53 FR 37429, Sept. 26, 1988, as amended at 75 FR 57156, Sept. 17, 2010]




