# ยง 4.310   Documents.

(a) *Filing.* The effective date for filing a notice of appeal or other document with the Board during the course of an appeal is: 


(1) For most documents, the date of mailing, the date of personal delivery, or the date of electronic transmission to the Board in accordance with paragraph (f); or


(2) For a motion for the Board to assume jurisdiction over an appeal under 25 CFR 2.20(e), the date that the Board receives the motion. 


(b) *Serving notices of appeal and other documents.* Any party filing a notice of appeal or other document before the Board must serve copies on all interested parties in the proceeding. Service must be accomplished by personal delivery, mailing, or electronic transmission in accordance with paragraph (f).


(1) Where a party is represented in an appeal by an attorney or other representative authorized under 43 CFR 1.3, service of any document on the attorney or representative is service on the party. 


(2) Where a party is represented by more than one attorney, service on any one attorney is sufficient. 


(3) The certificate of service on an attorney or representative must include the name of the party whom the attorney or representative represents and indicate that service was made on the attorney or representative. 


(c) *Computation of time for filing and service.* Except as otherwise provided by law, in computing any period of time prescribed for filing and serving a document: 


(1) The day upon which the decision or document to be appealed or answered was served or the day of any other event after which a designated period of time begins to run is not to be included; 


(2) The last day of the period is to be included, unless it is a nonbusiness day (*e.g.*, Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday), in which event the period runs until the end of the next business day; and 


(3) When the time prescribed or allowed is 7 days or less, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, Federal holidays, and other nonbusiness days are excluded from the computation. 


(d) *Extensions of time.* (1) The Board may extend the time for filing or serving any document except a notice of appeal. 


(2) A request to the Board for an extension of time must be filed within the time originally allowed for filing. 


(3) For good cause the Board may grant an extension of time on its own initiative. 


(e) *Retention of documents.* All documents received in evidence at a hearing or submitted for the record in any proceeding before the Board will be retained with the official record of the proceeding. The Board, in its discretion, may permit the withdrawal of original documents while a case is pending or after a decision becomes final upon conditions as required by the Board. 


(f) *Electronic transmission of documents.* A document may be electronically transmitted under the terms specified in the OHA Standing Orders on Electronic Transmission issued by the Director. When done in accordance with the Standing Orders, a document may be:


(1) Filed by electronic transmission; and


(2) Served on or transmitted to a person or party by electronic transmission, if that person or party has consented to such means.



---

[N] [36 FR 7186, Apr. 15, 1971, as amended at 88 FR 5793, Jan. 30, 2023]






