# § 125.12   Recertification of Size and Small Business Program Status.

(a) *General.* Recertification of size and small business program status (*i.e.,* 8(a), HUBZone, WOSB/EDWOSB, or SDVOSB) is required within 30 calendar days of a merger, acquisition, or sale of or by a concern or an affiliate of the concern, which results in a change in controlling interest.


(1) A concern and the acquiring concern must recertify if each has received an award as a small business or small business program participant.


(2) In the context of a joint venture, recertification is required from any partner to the joint venture that has merged or is party to the sale or acquisition.


(3) Recertification does not change the terms and conditions of the award. The limitations on subcontracting, non-manufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of award remain in effect throughout the life of the award regardless of whether a recertification is qualifying or disqualifying. However, a contracting officer may require a subcontracting plan if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size recertification.


(4) A size re-certification shall relate to the size standard in effect at the time of re-certification that corresponds to the NAICS code that was initially assigned to the award.


(b) *Long term contracts.* For contracts (including multiple award contracts) and orders with durations of more than five years (including options), a concern must recertify its size and status no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the award, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter. A contracting officer may also request size and/or status recertification, as he or she deems appropriate, prior to the 120-day point in the fifth year of a long-term contract or order. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.


(c) *Request by contracting officer.* Recertification of size and small business program status is required where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their size or status in response to a solicitation for a set aside or reserved order or agreement.


(d) *Change in structure of entity-owned concern.* Size or status recertification is not required when the ownership of a concern that is at least 51% owned by an Indian Tribe, Alaska Native Corporation, or Community Development Corporation changes to or from a wholly-owned business concern of the same entity, as long as the ultimate owner remains that entity.


(e) *Effect of Recertification*—(1) *Qualifying Recertification.* A concern that has a qualifying recertification is generally considered to be a small business or small business program participant for up to five years from the date of the recertification and remains eligible for set-aside or reserved awards unless there is a subsequent disqualifying recertification.


(2) *Disqualifying Recertification*—(i) *Pending Set Aside or Reserved Award.* If events triggering a disqualifying recertification under paragraph (a) of this section occur within 180 days after the date of an offer but prior to award, the concern is ineligible to receive the pending small business set aside or reserved award. The concern must notify the contracting officer of the change in its size or status. If events triggering a disqualifying recertification under paragraph (a) of this section occur more than 180 days after the date of an offer but prior to award, the concern is eligible to receive a pending single award or reserve and the award will count as an award to a small business or small business program participant for goaling purposes for up to five years from the date of the award unless there is a disqualifying recertification. However, where the underlying award is a multiple award small business set aside or reserve the concern is ineligible for the pending award because the concern would not be eligible for orders set aside for small business or set aside for a specific type of small business. *See* paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.


(ii) *Future Set Aside or Reserved Award*—(A) *Request for recertification on a specific order or agreement under an underlying multiple award contract that is set aside or reserved for small business.* If a concern has a disqualifying size or status recertification in response to a contracting officer request for recertification on a specific order or agreement under an underlying multiple award contract that is set aside or reserved for small business (*i.e.,* small business set-aside or reserve, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned/economically disadvantaged women-owned small business), the concern is ineligible for the specific order or agreement but remains eligible for other set aside or reserved awards and unrestricted awards.


(*1*) Where an initially-small contract holder has naturally grown to be other than small and could not recertify as small for a specific order or agreement for which a contracting officer requested recertification, it may continue to qualify as small for other orders or agreements where a contracting officer does not request recertification.


(*2*) Where an initially-eligible 8(a), HUBZone, WOSB or SDVOSB contract holder on an 8(a), HUBZone, WOSB or SDVOSB set-aside or reserve cannot recertify its status for a specific order or agreement for which a contracting officer requested recertification, it may continue to qualify as eligible for other competitively awarded orders or agreements where a contracting officer does not request recertification.


(B) *Other Events Triggering Recertification.* (*1*) If a concern has a disqualifying recertification in response to a recertification requirement on a long-term multiple award contract or a recertification requirement following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving a business entity that does not itself qualify as small under the NAICS code assigned to the multiple award contract, the concern is ineligible to submit an offer for a set aside or reserved award after the triggering event occurs. The concern remains eligible for unrestricted awards under a multiple award contract and orders issued under a single award small business contract. In either case, a procuring agency cannot count the order as an award to small business or to the specific type of small business (*i.e.,* 8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone).


(*2*) If a concern has a disqualifying recertification in response to a requirement to recertify size and/or status following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving another small business concern, the concern remains eligible for set-aside or reserved orders issued under a multiple award contract, but a procuring agency cannot count the order as an award to small business or to the specific type of small business (*i.e.,* 8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone).


(iii) *Options.* (A) For a single award small business set-aside or reserve award or any unrestricted award, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification remains eligible to receive options. The procuring agency cannot count the option period as an award to a small business or small business program participant for goaling purposes. Such a concern may make a qualifying recertification for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard or becomes a certified small business program participant.


(B) For a multiple award contract that is set-aside or reserved for small business, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification in response to a recertification requirement on a long-term contract or a recertification requirement following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving a business entity that does not itself qualify as small under the NAICS code assigned to the multiple award contract is ineligible to receive options.


(C) For a multiple award contract that is set-aside or reserved for small business, a concern that submits a disqualifying recertification in response to a requirement to recertify size and/or status following a merger, acquisition, or sale involving another small business concern, the concern remains eligible to receive options. The procuring agency cannot count the option period as an award to a small business or to the specific type of small business (*i.e.,* 8(a), WOSB, SDVOSB, or HUBZone). Such a concern may make a qualifying recertification for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard or becomes a certified small business program participant.


(f) *Joint venture recertifications.* Where a joint venture must recertify its small business size status under paragraph (a) of this section, the joint venture can recertify as small where all parties to the joint venture qualify as small at the time of recertification, or the protégé small business in a still active mentor-protégé joint venture qualifies as small at the time of recertification. A joint venture can recertify as small even though the date of recertification occurs more than two years after the joint venture received its first contract award (*i.e.,* recertification is not considered a new contract award under § 121.103(h).


(g) *Delayed effective date.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B) and (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section:


(i) A firm that has a disqualifying size or status recertification due to a merger, acquisition or sale that occurs prior to January 17, 2026 remains eligible for orders issued under an underlying small business multiple award contract. However, the agency cannot count any new or pending orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business and socioeconomic goals. This includes set-asides, partial set-asides, and reserves for 8(a) BD Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO SBCs, and ED/WOSBs.


(ii) A firm that has a disqualifying size or status recertification prior to the end of the fifth year of a long-term contract remains eligible for any options to be exercised prior to January 17, 2026. However, the agency cannot count those options towards its small business and socioeconomic goals.



---

[N] [89 FR 102493, Dec. 17, 2024]








