# § 74.632   Licensing requirements.

(a) Licenses for television pickup, television STL, television microwave booster, or television relay stations will be issued only to licensees of television broadcast stations, and broadcast network-entities and, further, on a secondary basis, to licensees of low power television stations. A separate application is required for each fixed station and the application shall be specific with regard to the frequency requested. A mobile station license may be issued for any number of mobile transmitters to operate in a specific area or frequency band and the applicant shall be specific with regard to the frequencies requested. 


(b) A license for a TV relay station may be issued in any case where the circuit will operate between TV broadcast stations either by means of “off-the-air” pickup and relay or location of the initial relay station at the studio or transmitter of a TV broadcast station.


(c) An application for a new TV pickup station shall designate the TV broadcast station with which it is to be operated and specify the area in which the proposed operation is intended. The maximum permissible area of operation will generally be that of a standard metropolitan area, unless a special showing is made that a larger area is necessary.


(d) Licensees who have two or more TV broadcast stations located in different cities shall, in applying for a new TV pickup station, designate the TV broadcast station in conjunction with which it is to be operated principally. Operation in a city which is not the city of license of the associated TV broadcast station is on a secondary, non-interference basis to home-city users.


(e) A license for a TV translator relay station will be issued only to licensees of low power TV and TV translator stations. *However,* a television translator relay station license may be issued to a cooperative enterprise wholly owned by licensees of television broadcast translators or licensees of television broadcast translators and cable television owners or operators upon a showing that the applicant is qualified under the Communication Act of 1934, as amended.


(f) Licensees of TV pickup, TV STL, TV relay, and TV translator relay stations may be authorized to operate one or more TV microwave booster stations for the purpose of relaying signals over a path that cannot be covered with a single station.



---

[N] [28 FR 13718, Dec. 14, 1963, as amended at 44 FR 32382, June 6, 1979; 47 FR 55937, Dec. 14, 1982; 48 FR 9012, Mar. 3, 1983; 48 FR 17092, Apr. 21, 1983; 48 FR 21486, May 12, 1983; 49 FR 7130, Feb. 27, 1984; 49 FR 10930, Mar. 23, 1984; 52 FR 7142, Mar. 9, 1987; 58 FR 19775, Apr. 16, 1993; 63 FR 36605, July 7, 1998; 68 FR 12769, Mar. 17, 2003; 82 FR 41548, Sept. 1, 2017]




