# § 1090.505   Gasoline produced from TGP.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline from TGP must meet the requirements of this section.


(2) A transmix processor must not use any feedstock other than transmix to produce TGP.


(3) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer may produce gasoline using only TGP, a combination of TGP and PCG, a combination of TGP and blendstock(s), or a combination TGP, PCG, and blendstock(s) under the provisions of this section. A transmix processor or blending manufacturer may also blend fuel additives into gasoline in accordance with §§ 1090.260 and 1090.265.


(b) *Demonstration of compliance with sulfur per-gallon standard.* (1) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must meet one of the following sulfur standards for each batch of gasoline they produce, as applicable:


(i) Each batch of gasoline produced from only TGP or both TGP and PCG must comply with the downstream sulfur per-gallon standard in § 1090.205(c).


(ii) Each batch of gasoline produced from a combination of TGP and any blendstock must comply with the fuel manufacturing facility gate sulfur per-gallon standard in § 1090.205(b).


(2) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must demonstrate compliance with the applicable sulfur standard in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by measuring the sulfur content of each batch of gasoline they produce in accordance with subpart N of this part.


(c) *Demonstration of compliance with sulfur and benzene average standards.* (1) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must exclude TGP and PCG used to produce gasoline under the provisions of this section from their compliance calculations to demonstrate compliance with the sulfur and benzene average standards in §§ 1090.205(a) and 1090.210(a) and (b), respectively. A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that exclusively produces gasoline from only TGP or both TGP and PCG is deemed to be in compliance with the sulfur and benzene average standards in §§ 1090.205(a) and 1090.210(a) and (b), respectively.


(2) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must include all blendstocks other than TGP and PCG in their compliance calculations to demonstrate compliance with the sulfur and benzene average standards in §§ 1090.205(a) and 1090.210(a) and (b), respectively.


(3) A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline by adding blendstock to TGP must comply with § 1090.1325.


(d) *Demonstration of compliance with RVP standard.* A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must demonstrate that each batch of gasoline they produce meets the applicable RVP standard in § 1090.215 by measuring the RVP of each batch in accordance with subpart N of this part.


(e) *Distillation point determination.* A transmix processor or blending manufacturer that produces gasoline with TGP must determine the following distillation parameters for each batch of gasoline they produce in accordance with subpart N of this part:


(1) T10.


(2) T50.


(3) T90.


(4) End-point.


(5) Distillation residue.




