# § 308.14   Specific exemptions.

Records or portions of records in certain record systems specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be exempt from disclosure: *Provided, however,* That no such exemption shall apply to the provisions of § 308.12(a) (maintaining records with accuracy, completeness, etc. as reasonably necessary for agency purposes); § 308.12(b) (collecting information directly from the individual to whom it pertains); § 308.12(c) (informing individuals asked to supply information of the purposes for which it is collected and whether it is mandatory); § 308.12(g) (notifying the subjects of records disclosed under compulsory court process); § 308.16(d)(3) (informing prior recipient of corrected or disputed records); § 308.16(g) (civil remedies). With the above exceptions the following material shall be exempt from disclosure to the extent indicated:


(a) Material in any system of records considered classified and exempt from disclosure under provisions of section 552(b)(1) of the Freedom of Information Act. Agency systems of records now containing such material are: Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Security Records Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION staff.


(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(1)


(2) Reasons: To protect information classified in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.


(b) Investigatory material compiled for the purposes of law enforcement: *Provided, however,* That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that he or she would otherwise be entitled to by Federal law, or for which he or she would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent necessary to protect the identity of a source who furnished information to the government under an express promise that his or her identity would be held in confidence, or prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise of such confidentiality of the identity of such source. Agency systems of records containing such investigatory material are: Discrimination Complaint Files; Employee Occupational Injury and Illness Reports; Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Security Records—Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION Staff. 


(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)


(2) Reasons: To protect the identity of sources to whom proper promises of confidentiality have been made during investigations. Without these promises, sources will often be unwilling to provide information essential in adjudicating access in a fair and impartial manner. 


(c) Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility or qualification for service as an employee or volunteer or for the obtaining of a Federal contract or for access to classified information: *Provided, however,* That such material shall be disclosed to the extent possible without revealing the identity of a source who furnished information to the government under an express promise of the confidentiality of his or her identity or, prior to the effective date of the Privacy Act of 1974, under an implied promise of such confidentiality of identity. Agency systems of records containing such material are: Contractors and Consultant Files; Discrimination Complaint Files; Legal Files—Staff, Volunteers and Applicants; Personal Service Contract Records—Peace Corps Staff/Volunteers and ACTION Staff; Staff Applicant and Personnel Records; Talent Bank; Volunteer Applicant and Service Record Systems. 


(1) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5)


(2) Reasons: To ensure the frankness of information used to determine whether Peace Corps Volunteers applicants and Peace Corps Staff applicants are qualified for service with the agency. 


(d) Records in the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records are exempt from certain provisions to the extent provided hereinafter.


(1) To the extent that the system of records pertains to the enforcement of criminal laws, the Office of Inspector General Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from all sections of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) except the following sections: (b) relating to conditions of disclosure; (c)(1) and (2) relating to keeping and maintaining a disclosure accounting; (e)(4)(A) through (F) relating to publishing a system notice setting the name, location, categories of individuals and records, routine uses, and policies regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention and disposal of the records; (e)(6), (7), (9), (10), and (11) relating to dissemination and maintenance of records and (i) relating to criminal penalties. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of § 308.11 through § 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.


(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2).


(ii) Reasons:


(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.


(B) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigations, investigators, and witnesses.


(C) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to OIG, consistent with section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.


(D) To protect the confidentiality of non-Federal employee sources of information.


(E) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement information systems.


(F) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.


(G) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources.


(2) To the extent that there may exist within this system of records investigative files compiled for law enforcement purposes, other than material within the scope of subsection (j)(2) of the Privacy Act, the OIG Investigative Files and Records system of records is exempt from the following sections of the Privacy Act: (c)(3) relating to access to the disclosure accounting; (d) relating to access to records; (e)(1) relating to the type of information maintained in the records; (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I) relating to publishing the system notice information as to agency procedures for access and amendment, and information as to the categories of sources or records; and (f) relating to developing agency rules for gaining access and making corrections. *Provided, however,* That if any individual is denied any right, privilege, or benefit that they would otherwise be entitled by Federal law, or for which they would otherwise be eligible, as a result of the maintenance of such material, such material shall be provided to such individual except to the extent that the disclosure of such material would reveal the identity of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence, or, prior to January 1, 1975, under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. This system of records is also exempt from the provisions of § 308.11 through § 308.17 to the extent that the provisions of these sections conflict with this paragraph.


(i) Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2)


(ii) Reasons:


(A) To prevent interference with law enforcement proceedings.


(B) To protect investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.


(C) To avoid unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, by disclosure of information about third parties, including other subjects of investigation, law enforcement personnel, and sources of information.


(D) To fulfill commitments made to protect the confidentiality of sources. 


(E) To protect the identity of Federal employees who furnish a complaint or information to the OIG, consistent with Section 7(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, 5 U.S.C. App. 3.


(F) To assure access to sources of confidential information, including those contained in Federal, State, and local criminal law enforcement systems.


(G) [Reserved]


(H) To prevent disclosure of law enforcement techniques and procedures.


(I) To avoid endangering the life or physical safety of confidential sources and law enforcement personnel.



---

[N] [50 FR 1844, Jan. 14, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 39657, July 26, 1993]




