# § 17.73   Medical foster homes—general.

(a) *Purpose.* Through the medical foster home program, VA recognizes and approves certain medical foster homes for the placement of veterans. The choice to become a resident of a medical foster home is a voluntary one on the part of each veteran. VA's role is limited to referring veterans to approved medical foster homes. When a veteran is placed in an approved home, VA will provide inspections to ensure that the home continues to meet the requirements of this part, as well as oversight and medical foster home caregiver training. If a medical foster home does not meet VA's criteria for approval, VA will not refer any veteran to the home or provide any of these services. VA may also provide certain medical benefits to veterans placed in medical foster homes, consistent with the VA program in which the veteran is enrolled.


(b) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this section and § 17.74:


*Labeled* means that the equipment or materials have attached to them a label, symbol, or other identifying mark of an organization recognized as having jurisdiction over the evaluation and periodic inspection of such equipment or materials, and by whose labeling the manufacturer indicates compliance with appropriate standards or performance.


*Medical foster home* means a private home in which a medical foster home caregiver provides care to a veteran resident and:


(i) The medical foster home caregiver lives in the medical foster home;


(ii) The medical foster home caregiver owns or rents the medical foster home; and


(iii) There are not more than three residents receiving care (including veteran and non-veteran residents).


*Medical foster home caregiver* means the primary person who provides care to a veteran resident in a medical foster home.


*Placement* refers to the voluntary decision by a veteran to become a resident in an approved medical foster home.


*Veteran resident* means a veteran residing in an approved medical foster home who meets the eligibility criteria in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Eligibility.* VA health care personnel may assist a veteran by referring such veteran for placement in a medical foster home if:


(1) The veteran is unable to live independently safely or is in need of nursing home level care;


(2) The veteran must be enrolled in, or agree to be enrolled in, either a VA Home Based Primary Care or VA Spinal Cord Injury Homecare program, or a similar VA interdisciplinary program designed to assist medically complex veterans living in the home; and


(3) The medical foster home has been approved in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *Approval of medical foster homes.* Medical foster homes will be approved by a VA Medical Foster Homes Coordinator based on the report of a VA inspection and on any findings of necessary interim monitoring of the medical foster home, if that home meets the standards established in § 17.74. The approval process is governed by the process for approving community residential care facilities under §§ 17.65 through 17.72 except as follows:


(1) Where §§ 17.65 through 17.72 reference § 17.63.


(2) Because VA does not physically place veterans in medical foster homes, VA also does not assist veterans in moving out of medical foster homes as we do for veterans in other community residential care facilities under § 17.72(d)(2); however, VA will assist such veterans in locating an approved medical foster home when relocation is necessary.


(e) *Duties of Medical foster home caregivers.* The medical foster home caregiver, with assistance from relief caregivers, provides a safe environment, room and board, supervision, and personal assistance, as appropriate for each veteran.



---

[N] [77 FR 5188, Feb. 2, 2012]




