# § 206.117   Housing assistance.

(a) *Definitions.* The definitions in this paragraph apply to this section only.


“*Multifamily Rental Housing*” means a rental property that contains three or more dwelling units contained within one building, each such unit providing complete and independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, and sanitation.


“*Real Property Component” or “Component”* means each individual part of a dwelling as enumerated in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


“*Semi-Permanent Housing*” means housing designed and constructed with finishes, material, and systems selected for moderate (or better) energy efficiency, maintenance, and life cycle cost, and with a life expectancy of more than 5 years but less than 25 years.


(b) *Types of housing assistance*—(1) *Temporary housing assistance*—(i) *Rental assistance.* Eligible displaced applicants may receive rental assistance to rent alternate housing resources. FEMA may also provide assistance for the reasonable cost of any transportation, utility hookups, or installation of a manufactured housing unit or recreational vehicle to be used for housing. This may include lodging expense reimbursement for reasonable short-term lodging expenses for individuals or households who have not received displacement assistance (See § 206.119(b)(2)) in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. 


(A) FEMA will include all members of a pre-disaster household in a single registration and will provide assistance for one temporary housing residence, unless FEMA determines that the size or nature of the household requires that we provide assistance for more than one residence.


(B) FEMA will base the amount of assistance on the current fair market rent for existing rental units. FEMA will further base the applicable rate on the location of the rental unit and the number of bedrooms the household requires, as determined by FEMA.


(C) Rental assistance may include the payment of the cost of utilities, excluding telephone, cable, television, and internet service.


(D) Rental assistance may include the payment of the cost of security deposits, not to exceed an amount equal to the fair market rent for one month, as determined under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section.


(E) Applicants that receive displacement assistance under § 206.119(b)(2) must request rental assistance if their disaster-caused temporary housing needs continue once displacement assistance is exhausted.


(ii) *Direct assistance.* (A) FEMA may provide direct assistance in the form of purchased or leased temporary housing units directly to displaced applicants who lack available housing resources and are unable to make use of the assistance provided under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(B) FEMA will include all members of a pre-disaster household in a single application and will provide assistance for one temporary housing unit, unless FEMA determines that the size or nature of the household requires that we provide assistance for more than one temporary housing unit.


(C) Any site upon which a FEMA-provided temporary housing unit is placed must comply with applicable State and local codes and ordinances, as well as 44 CFR part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of Wetlands, and all other applicable environmental and historic preservation laws, regulations, Executive orders, and agency policy.


(D) All utility costs and utility security deposits are the responsibility of the occupant except where the utility does not meter utility services separately and utility services are a part of the rental charge.


(E) FEMA-provided or funded temporary housing units may be placed in the following locations:


(*1*) A commercial site that is complete with utilities, when FEMA determines that the upgrading of commercial sites, or installation of utilities on such sites, will provide more cost-effective, timely and suitable temporary housing than other types of resources.


(*2*) A private site that an applicant provides, complete with utilities, when FEMA determines that the cost of installation or repairs of essential utilities on private sites will provide more cost effective, timely, and suitable temporary housing than other types of resources.


(*3*) A group site that accommodates two or more temporary housing units and is complete with utilities, provided by the State or local government, when FEMA determines that the cost of developing a group site provided by the State or local government, to include installation or repairs of essential utilities on the sites, will provide more cost effective, timely, and suitable temporary housing than other types of resources.


(*4*) A group site provided by FEMA, if determined that such a site would be more economical or accessible than one that the State or local government provides.


(F) If FEMA determines it would be a cost-effective alternative to other temporary housing options, FEMA may enter into lease agreements with owners of multifamily rental housing properties to house displaced applicants eligible for assistance under this subpart.


(*1*) FEMA may only enter into lease agreements with owners of multifamily rental housing properties impacted by a major disaster or located in areas covered by a major disaster declaration.


(*2*) FEMA may make repairs or improvements to properties under such lease agreements, to the extent necessary to serve as temporary housing, provided, however, that the value of the improvements or repairs must be deducted from the value of the lease agreement.


(G) After the end of the 18-month period of assistance, FEMA may begin to charge up to the fair market rent for each temporary housing unit provided. We will base the rent charged on the number of bedrooms occupied and needed by the household. When establishing the amount of rent, FEMA will take into account the financial ability of the household. 


(H) We may terminate direct assistance for reasons that include, but are not limited to, the following: 


(*1*) The period of assistance expired under § 206.110(e) and has not been extended; 


(*2*) Adequate alternate housing is available to the occupant(s); 


(*3*) The occupant(s) obtained housing assistance through either misrepresentation or fraud; 


(*4*) The occupant(s) failed to comply with any term of the lease/rental agreement or other rules of the site where the temporary housing unit is located; or


(*5*) The occupant(s) does not provide evidence documenting that they are working towards a permanent housing plan. 


(I) FEMA will provide a 15 day written notice when initiating the termination of direct assistance that we provide under our lease agreements. This notice will specify the reasons for termination of assistance and occupancy, the date of termination, the procedure for appealing the determination, and the occupant's liability for such additional charges as FEMA deems appropriate after the termination date, including fair market rent for the unit.


(J) Duplication of benefits may occur when an applicant has additional living expense insurance benefits to cover the cost of renting alternate housing. In these instances, FEMA may provide a temporary housing unit if adequate alternate housing is not available, or if doing so is in the best interest of the household and the government. We will establish fair market rent, not to exceed insurance benefits available. 


(2) *Repairs.* (i) FEMA may provide financial assistance for the repair of an owner-occupied primary residence if:


(A) The eligibility criteria in § 206.113 are met;


(B) FEMA determines the dwelling was damaged by the disaster; and,


(C) The damage is not covered by insurance.




(ii) FEMA may provide financial assistance for the repair of the disaster damaged dwelling to a safe and sanitary living or functioning condition including:


(A) Structural components of the residence. This includes real property components, such as the foundation, exterior walls, and roof.


(B) Windows and doors.


(C) The Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system.


(D) Utility systems. This includes electrical, gas, water and sewage systems.


(E) Interior components. This includes, but is not limited to, the structure's floors, walls, ceilings, and cabinetry.


(F) The structure's access and egress, including privately owned access roads and privately owned bridges.


(G) Blocking, leveling, and anchoring of a mobile home, and reconnecting or resetting mobile home sewer, water, electrical and fuel lines and tanks.


(H) Eligible hazard mitigation measures.


(iii) FEMA financial assistance for the repair of disaster damage will be limited to repairs of a quality necessary for a safe and sanitary living or functioning condition. In some instances, when the extent of the damage is unclear, FEMA may provide assistance for the average cost of a licensed technician's professional assessment. FEMA may provide for the replacement of a component if repair is not feasible.


(iv) Eligible individuals or households may receive up to the maximum amount of assistance (See § 206.110(b)) to repair damage to their primary residence irrespective of other financial resources, except insurance proceeds.


(v) The individual or household is responsible for obtaining all local permits or inspections that applicable State or local building codes may require.


(vi) If the applicant disputes a determination made by FEMA regarding eligibility for repair assistance, the applicant may appeal that determination pursuant to the procedures in § 206.115. In addition to the requirements in § 206.115, the applicant must provide proof that the component meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. If the applicant disputes the amount of repair assistance awarded, the applicant must also provide justification for the amount sought.


(3) *Housing replacement.* (i) FEMA may provide financial assistance for the replacement of an owner-occupied primary residence if:


(A) The eligibility criteria in § 206.113 are met;


(B) The residence was destroyed by the disaster; and


(C) The damage to the residence is not covered by insurance.


(ii) If replacement assistance is granted, the applicant may either use the maximum amount of assistance (See § 206.110(b)) to replace the dwelling in its entirety, or may use the assistance toward the cost of acquiring a new permanent residence.


(iii) Housing replacement assistance will be based on the average replacement cost established by FEMA for the type of residence destroyed, or the statutory maximum (See § 206.110(b)), whichever is less.


(iv) If the applicant disputes a determination made by FEMA regarding eligibility for replacement assistance, the applicant may appeal that determination pursuant to the procedures in § 206.115. In addition to the requirements in § 206.115, the applicant must provide proof that repair is not feasible, or will not ensure the safety or health of the occupant. If the applicant disputes the amount of replacement assistance awarded, the applicant must also provide justification for the amount sought.


(4) *Permanent and semi-permanent housing construction.* (i) FEMA may provide financial or direct assistance to applicants for the purpose of constructing permanent and semi-permanent housing if:


(A) The eligibility criteria in § 206.113 are met;


(B) The residence was damaged by the event;


(C) The damage to the residence is not covered by insurance;


(D) The residence was an owner-occupied primary residence; and


(E) The residence is in a location where alternative housing resources are not available and the types of financial or direct temporary housing assistance described in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section are unavailable, infeasible, or not cost-effective.


(ii) Permanent and semi-permanent housing construction, in general, must be consistent with current minimal local building codes and standards where they exist, or minimal acceptable construction industry standards in the area, including reasonable hazard mitigation measures, and Federal environmental laws and regulations. Dwellings will be of average quality, size and capacity, taking into consideration the needs of the occupant.


(iii) If the applicant disputes a determination made by FEMA regarding eligibility for construction assistance, the applicant may appeal that determination pursuant to the procedures in § 206.115. In addition to the requirements in § 206.115, the applicant must provide proof that the property is in a location where alternative housing resources are not available. The applicant must also provide proof that the types of financial or direct temporary housing assistance described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are unavailable, infeasible, or not cost effective. If the applicant disputes the amount of construction assistance awarded, the applicant must also provide justification for the amount sought.



---

[N] [67 FR 61452, Sept. 30, 2002; 67 FR 62896, Oct. 9, 2002, as amended at 78 FR 66856, Nov. 7, 2013; 81 FR 56533, Aug. 22, 2016; 89 FR 4121, Jan. 22, 2024]




