# § 61.14   Method of filing publications.

(a) Publications filed electronically must be captioned to “Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.” The Electronic Tariff Filing System will accept filings 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The official filing date of a publication received by the Electronic Tariff Filing System will be determined by the date and time the transmission ends. If the transmission ends after the close of a business day, as that term is defined in § 1.4(e)(2) of this chapter, the filing will be date and time stamped as of the opening of the next business day.


(b) Carriers are strongly encouraged to submit publications electronically if practicable. Carriers need only transmit one set of files to the Commission. No other copies to any other party are required. Publications which must be filed in hard copy format should be submitted according to the procedures set forth on the web page of the FCC's Office of the Secretary, *https://www.fcc.gov/secretary.*

(c) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically may not file those publications on paper or other media unless specifically required to do so by the Commission.


(d) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically need only transmit one set of files to the Commission. No other copies to any other party are required.


(e) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically must comply with the format requirements set forth in §§ 61.52 and 61.54, with the exception of the informational tariffs filed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 226(h)(1)(A).



---

[N] [63 FR 35540, June 30, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 46586, Aug. 26, 1999; 73 FR 9030, Feb. 19, 2008; 76 FR 43210, July 20, 2011; 83 FR 2557, Jan. 18, 2018]




