# § 61.195   Flight instructor limitations and qualifications.

A person who holds a flight instructor certificate is subject to the following limitations: 


(a) *Hours of training.* In any 24-consecutive-hour period, a flight instructor may not conduct more than 8 hours of flight training. 


(b) *Aircraft ratings.* Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a flight instructor may not conduct flight training in any aircraft unless the flight instructor:


(1) Holds a flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating;


(2) Holds a pilot certificate with the applicable category and class rating; and


(3) Meets the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, if applicable.


(c) *Instrument rating.* A flight instructor may conduct instrument training for the issuance of an instrument rating, a type rating not limited to VFR, or the instrument training required for commercial pilot and airline transport pilot certificates if the following requirements are met:


(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the flight instructor must hold an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the instrument training on his or her flight instructor certificate, and—


(i) Meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; or


(ii) Hold a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class ratings for the aircraft in which the instrument training is conducted provided the pilot receiving instrument training holds a pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft in which the instrument training is being conducted.


(2) If the flight instructor is conducting the instrument training in a multiengine airplane, the flight instructor must hold an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the instrument training on his or her flight instructor certificate and meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Limitations on endorsements.* A flight instructor may not endorse a: 


(1) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight privileges, unless that flight instructor has—


(i) Given that student the flight training required for solo flight privileges required by this part; and 


(ii) Determined that the student is prepared to conduct the flight safely under known circumstances, subject to any limitations listed in the student's logbook that the instructor considers necessary for the safety of the flight. 


(2) Student pilot's logbook for a solo cross-country flight, unless that flight instructor has determined the student's flight preparation, planning, equipment, and proposed procedures are adequate for the proposed flight under the existing conditions and within any limitations listed in the logbook that the instructor considers necessary for the safety of the flight;


(3) Student pilot's logbook for solo flight in a Class B airspace area or at an airport within Class B airspace unless that flight instructor has—


(i) Given that student ground and flight training in that Class B airspace or at that airport; and 


(ii) Determined that the student is proficient to operate the aircraft safely. 


(4) Logbook of a recreational pilot, unless that flight instructor has— 


(i) Given that pilot the ground and flight training required by this part; and 


(ii) Determined that the recreational pilot is proficient to operate the aircraft safely. 


(5) Logbook of a pilot for a flight review, unless that instructor has conducted a review of that pilot in accordance with the requirements of § 61.56(a) of this part; or 


(6) Logbook of a pilot for an instrument proficiency check, unless that instructor has tested that pilot in accordance with the requirements of § 61.57(d) of this part. 


(e) *Training in an aircraft that requires a type rating.* A flight instructor may not give flight instruction, including instrument training, in an aircraft that requires the pilot in command to hold a type rating unless the flight instructor holds a type rating for that aircraft on his or her pilot certificate.


(f) *Training received in a multiengine airplane, a helicopter, or a powered-lift.* A flight instructor may not give training required for the issuance of a certificate or rating in a multiengine airplane, a helicopter, or a powered-lift unless that flight instructor has at least 5 flight hours of pilot-in-command time in the specific make and model of multiengine airplane, helicopter, or powered-lift, as appropriate. 


(g) *Position in aircraft and required pilot stations for providing flight training.* (1) A flight instructor must perform all training from in an aircraft that complies with the requirements of § 91.109 of this chapter. 


(2) A flight instructor who provides flight training for a pilot certificate or rating issued under this part must provide that flight training in an aircraft that meets the following requirements— 


(i) The aircraft must have at least two pilot stations and be of the same category, class, and type, if appropriate, that applies to the pilot certificate or rating sought. 


(ii) For single-place aircraft, the pre-solo flight training must have been provided in an aircraft that has two pilot stations and is of the same category, class, and type, if appropriate. 




(h) *Qualifications to provide ground or flight training to initial flight instructor applicants*—(1) *Ground training.* The ground training provided to an initial applicant for a flight instructor certificate must be given by an authorized instructor who—


(i) Holds a ground or flight instructor certificate with the appropriate rating, has held that certificate for at least 24 calendar months, and has given at least 40 hours of ground training; or


(ii) Holds a ground or flight instructor certificate with the appropriate rating, and has given at least 100 hours of ground training in an FAA-approved course.


(2) *Flight training.* A flight instructor who provides flight training to an initial applicant for a flight instructor certificate must meet the eligibility requirements prescribed in § 61.183; hold the appropriate flight instructor certificate and rating; meet the requirements of the part under which the flight training is provided; and meet one of the following requirements—


(i) Have held a flight instructor certificate for at least 24 calendar months; and


(A) For training in preparation for an airplane, rotorcraft, or powered-lift rating, have given at least 200 hours of flight training as a flight instructor; or


(B) For training in preparation for a glider rating, have given at least 80 hours of flight training as a flight instructor;


(ii) Have trained and endorsed, during the preceding 24 calendar months, at least five applicants for a practical test for a pilot certificate or rating, and at least 80 percent of all applicants endorsed in that period passed that test on their first attempt; or


(iii) After completing the flight training requirements in paragraph (h)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate, have graduated from an FAA-approved flight instructor enhanced qualification training program that satisfies the requirements specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.


(3) *Flight instructor enhanced qualification training program.* A flight instructor enhanced qualification training program must be approved and conducted under part 141 or 142 of this chapter, and meet the following requirements-


(i) The ground training must include at least 25 hours of instruction that includes the following subjects:


(A) Flight instructor responsibilities, functions, lesson planning, and risk management, including how to instruct an initial flight instructor applicant on these subjects.


(B) Teaching methods, procedures, and techniques applicable to instructing an initial flight instructor applicant.


(C) Methods of proper evaluation of an initial flight instructor applicant to detect improper and insufficient transfer of instructional knowledge, training, and performance of the initial flight instructor applicant.


(D) Corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory training progress.


(ii) The flight training must include at least 10 hours of training that includes the following areas:


(A) Scenario-based training to develop the flight instructor's ability to instruct an initial flight instructor applicant how to satisfactorily perform the procedures and maneuvers while giving effective flight training.


(B) Instructional knowledge and proficiency to teach an initial flight instructor applicant in abnormal and emergency procedures, which must include stall awareness, spin entry, spins, and spin recovery procedures, if applicable to the category and class of aircraft used in the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program.


(C) Risk management and potential results of improper, untimely, or non-execution of safety measures critical to flight training.


(D) Methods of proper evaluation of an initial flight instructor applicant to detect improper and insufficient transfer of instructional knowledge, training, and performance of the initial flight instructor applicant.


(E) Corrective action in the case of unsatisfactory training progress.


(F) Methods to detect personal characteristics of an initial flight instructor applicant that could adversely affect safety.


(iii) Each flight instructor enrolled in the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program must satisfactorily complete an end-of-course written test specific to the ground training subjects in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section and an end-of-course instructional proficiency flight test specific to the flight training areas in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.


(iv) A full flight simulator or flight training device may be used to meet the flight training requirements of paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. The FFS or FTD must be—


(A) Qualified and maintained in accordance with part 60 of this chapter, or a previously qualified device as permitted in accordance with § 60.17 of this chapter;


(B) Approved by the Administrator pursuant to § 61.4(a); and


(C) Used in accordance with the part under which the FAA-approved course is conducted.


(v) A maximum of 5 hours of training received in an advanced aviation training device may be used to meet the flight training requirements of paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section for part 141 flight instructor enhanced qualification training programs. The advanced aviation training device must be-


(A) Approved by the Administrator pursuant to § 61.4(c); and


(B) Used in accordance with part 141 of this chapter.


(vi) No certificate holder may use a person, nor may any person serve, as an instructor of the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program unless the instructor holds a flight instructor certificate or ground instructor certificate and meets one of the following qualifications:


(A) Serves as a chief instructor or assistant chief instructor in a part 141 pilot school;


(B) Serves as a training center program manager or assistant training center program manager of a part 142 training center; or


(C) Meets the qualifications of an assistant chief instructor, pursuant to § 141.36(d).


(vii) A part 141 pilot school or part 142 training center must issue a graduation certificate to each flight instructor who successfully completes the flight instructor enhanced qualification training program. 


(i) *Prohibition against self-endorsements.* A flight instructor shall not make any self-endorsement for a certificate, rating, flight review, authorization, operating privilege, practical test, or knowledge test that is required by this part. 


(j) *Additional qualifications required to give training in Category II or Category III operations.* A flight instructor may not give training in Category II or Category III operations unless the flight instructor has been trained and tested in Category II or Category III operations, pursuant to § 61.67 or § 61.68 of this part, as applicable. 


(k) *Training for night vision goggle operations.* A flight instructor may not conduct training for night vision goggle operations unless the flight instructor:


(1) Has a pilot and flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating for the training;


(2) If appropriate, has a type rating on his or her pilot certificate for the aircraft;


(3) Is pilot in command qualified for night vision goggle operations, in accordance with § 61.31(k);


(4) Has logged 100 night vision goggle operations as the sole manipulator of the controls;


(5) Has logged 20 night vision goggle operations as the sole manipulator of the controls in the category and class, and type of aircraft, if aircraft class and type is appropriate, that the training will be given in;


(6) Is qualified to act as pilot in command in night vision goggle operations under § 61.57(f) or (g); and


(7) Has a logbook endorsement from an FAA Aviation Safety Inspector or a person who is authorized by the FAA to provide that logbook endorsement that states the flight instructor is authorized to perform the night vision goggle pilot in command qualification and recent flight experience requirements under § 61.31(k) and § 61.57(f) and (g).


(l) *Training on control and maneuvering an aircraft solely by reference to the instruments.* A flight instructor may conduct flight training on control and maneuvering an airplane solely by reference to the flight instruments, provided the flight instructor—


(1) Holds a flight instructor certificate with the applicable category and class rating; or


(2) Holds an instrument rating appropriate to the aircraft used for the training on his or her flight instructor certificate, and holds a commercial pilot certificate or airline transport pilot certificate with the appropriate category and class ratings for the aircraft in which the training is conducted provided the pilot receiving the training holds a pilot certificate with category and class ratings appropriate to the aircraft in which the training is being conducted.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 25910, 62 FR 16298, Apr. 4, 1997; Amdt. 61-103, 62 FR 40907, July 30, 1997; Amdt. 61-124, 74 FR 42561, Aug. 21, 2009; Docket FAA-2010-1127, Amdt. 61-135, 81 FR 1307, Jan. 12, 2016; Docket FAA-2016-6142, Amdt. 61-142, 83 FR 30729, June 27, 2018; Docket No. FAA-2023-0825; Amdt. No. 61-155, 89 FR 80051, Oct. 1, 2024]






