# § 1.382-12   Determination of adjusted Federal long-term rate.

(a) *In general.* The long-term tax-exempt rate for an ownership change is the highest of the adjusted Federal long-term rates in effect for any month in the 3-calendar-month period ending with the calendar month in which the change date occurs. For purposes of the previous sentence, the adjusted Federal long-term rate is the Federal long-term rate determined under section 1274(d) (without regard to paragraphs (2) and (3) thereof), adjusted for differences between rates on long-term taxable and tax-exempt obligations. The Secretary calculates the adjusted Federal long-term rate as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. The Internal Revenue Service publishes the long-term tax-exempt rate and the adjusted Federal long-term rate for each month in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter).


(b) *Adjusted Federal long-term rate.* The adjusted Federal long-term rate for a calendar month is the product of the Federal long-term rate determined under section 1274(d) for that month, based on annual compounding, multiplied by the adjustment factor described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Adjustment factor.* The adjustment factor is a percentage equal to—


(1) The excess of 100 percent, over


(2) The product of—


(i) 59 percent, and


(ii) The sum of the maximum rate in effect under section 1 applicable to individuals and the maximum rate in effect under section 1411 applicable to individuals for the month to which the adjusted applicable Federal rate applies.


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* The rules of this section apply to the determination of the long-term tax-exempt rate and the adjusted Federal long-term rate beginning with the rates determined during August 2016 that apply during September 2016.



---

[N] [T.D. 9763, 81 FR 24483, Apr. 26, 2016]




