# § 4007.11   Due dates.

(a) *In general.* In general:


(1) The flat-rate and variable-rate premium filing due date is the fifteenth day of the tenth calendar month that begins on or after the first day of the premium payment year.


(2) If the variable-rate premium paid by the premium filing due date is estimated as described in § 4007.8(g)(1)(ii), a reconciliation filing and any required variable-rate premium payment must be made by the end of the sixth calendar month that begins on or after the premium filing due date.


(3) *Small plan transition rule.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if a plan had fewer than 100 participants for whom flat-rate premiums were payable for the plan year preceding the last plan year that began before 2014, then the plan's due date for the first plan year beginning after 2013 is the fifteenth day of the fourteenth calendar month that begins on or after the first day of that plan year.


(b) *Plans that change plan years.* For a plan that changes its plan year, the flat-rate and variable-rate premium filing due date for the short plan year is as specified in paragraph (a) of this section. For the plan year that follows a short plan year, the due date is the later of —


(1) The due date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or


(2) 30 days after the date on which the amendment changing the plan year was adopted.


(c) *New and newly covered plans.* For a new plan or newly covered plan, the flat-rate and variable-rate premium filing due date for the first plan year of coverage is the latest of—


(1) The due date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or


(2) 90 days after the date of the plan's adoption, or


(3) 90 days after the date on which the plan became covered by title IV of ERISA, or


(4) In the case of a small plan that is a continuation plan, 90 days after the plan's UVB valuation date.


(d) *Terminating plans.* For a plan that terminates in a standard termination, the flat-rate and variable-rate premium filing due date for the plan year in which all plan assets are distributed pursuant to the plan's termination is the earlier of—


(1) The due date specified in paragraph (a) of this section, or


(2) The date when the post-distribution certification under § 4041.29 of this chapter is filed.


(e) *Continuing obligation to file.* The obligation to make flat-rate and variable-rate premium filings and payments under this part continues through the plan year in which all plan assets are distributed pursuant to a plan's termination or in which a trustee is appointed under section 4042 of ERISA, whichever occurs earlier.



---

[N] [79 FR 13561, Mar. 11, 2014]




