# § 165.1196   Regulated Navigation Areas; Harbor Entrances along the Coast of Northern California.

(a) *Regulated navigation areas.* Each of the following areas is a regulated navigation area (RNA):


(1) Humboldt Bay Entrance Channel: The navigable waters enclosed by the following coordinates:


(i) 40°45′17″ N, 124°14′10″ W (Point A);


(ii) 40°45′56″ N, 124°15′06″ W (Point B);


(iii) 40°46′25″ N, 124°14′30″ W (Point C);


(iv) 40°46′04″ N, 124°13′46″ W (Point D); and


(v) Thence back to Point A, in Eureka, CA (NAD 83).


(2) Noyo River Entrance Channel: The navigable waters of the Noyo River Entrance Channel enclosed by the following coordinates:


(i) 39°25′36″ N, 123°48′34″ W (Point A);


(ii) 39°25′37″ N, 123°48′38″ W (Point B);


(iii) 39°25′42″ N, 123°48′39″ W (Point C);


(iv) 39°25′42″ N, 123°48′32″ W (Point D); and


(v) Thence back to Point A, in in Fort Bragg, CA (NAD 83).


(3) Crescent City Harbor Entrance Channel: The navigable waters of the Crescent City Harbor Entrance Channel enclosed by the following coordinates:


(i) 41°43′50″ N, 124°11′27″ W (Point A)


(ii) 41°44′12″N, 124°11′42″ W (Point B)


(iii) 41°44′26″ N, 124°10′55″ W (Point C)


(iv) 41°44′13″ N, 124°10′20″ W (Point D); and


(v) Thence back to Point A, in Crescent City, CA (NAD 83).


(4) Estero-Morro Bay Harbor Entrance Channel: The navigable waters of the Morro Bay Harbor Entrance Channel enclosed by the following coordinates:


(i) 35°21′21″ N, 120°52′12″ W (Point A);


(ii) 35°21′41″ N, 120°52′37″ W (Point B);


(iii) 35°21′55″ N, 120°52′10″ W (Point C);


(iv) 35°21′38″ N, 120°51′51″ W (Point D); and


(v) Thence back to Point A, in Morro Bay, CA (NAD 83).


(b) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section:


(1) *Bar closure* means that the operation of any vessel within an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section has been prohibited by the Coast Guard.


(2) *Bar crossing plan* (also known as a Go/No-Go plan) means a plan, developed by local industry, in coordination with Coast Guard, for a bar within an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section and adopted by the master or operator of a small passenger vessel or commercial fishing vessel to guide his or her vessel's operations on and in the vicinity of that bar.


(3) *Bar restriction* means that operation of a recreational, uninspected passenger, small passenger, and commercial fishing vessel within an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section has been prohibited by the Coast Guard.


(4) *Commercial fishing industry vessel* means a fishing vessel, fish tender vessel, or a fish processing vessel.


(5) *COTP designated representative* means any Coast Guard commissioned officer, warrant officer, petty officer or civilian that has been authorized by the Captain of the Port (COTP) to act on his or her behalf in the enforcement of the RNA.


(6) *Fish processing vessel* means a vessel that commercially prepares fish or fish products other than by gutting, decapitating, gilling, skinning, shucking, icing, freezing, or brine chilling.


(7) *Fish tender vessel* means a vessel that commercially supplies, stores, refrigerates, or transports fish, fish products, or materials directly related to fishing or the preparation of fish to or from a fishing, fish processing, fish tender vessel or a fish processing facility.


(8) *Fishing vessel* means a vessel that commercially engages in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish or an activity that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish.


(9) *Operator* means a person who is an owner, a demise charterer, or other contractor, who conducts the operation of, or who is responsible for the operation of a vessel.


(10) *Readily accessible* means equipment that is taken out of stowage and is available within the same space as any person for immediate use during an emergency.


(11) *Recreational vessel* means any vessel manufactured or used primarily for non-commercial use or leased, rented, or chartered to another for non-commercial use. It does not include a vessel engaged in carrying paying passengers.


(12) *Small passenger vessel* means a vessel inspected under 46 CFR subchapter T or 46 CFR subchapter K.


(13) *Uninspected passenger vessel* means an uninspected vessel—


(i) Of at least 100 gross tons;


(A) Carrying not more than 12 passengers, including at least one passenger-for-hire; or


(B) That is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or the owner's representative and carrying not more than 12 passengers; or


(ii) Of less than 100 gross tons;


(A) Carrying not more than six passengers, including at least one passenger-for-hire; or


(B) That is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or the owner's representative and carrying not more than six passengers.


(14) *Unsafe condition* exists when the wave height within an RNA identified in paragraph (a) of this section is equal to or greater than the maximum wave height determined by the formula L/10 + F = W where:


(c) *Regulations.* (1)(i) *Bar restrictions.* The COTP or a designated representative will determine when to restrict passage for recreational and uninspected passenger vessels across the bars located in the RNAs established in paragraph (a) of this section. In making this determination, the COTP or a designated representative will determine whether an unsafe condition exists for such vessels as defined in paragraph (b) of this section. Additionally, the COTP or a designated representative will use his or her professional maritime experience and knowledge of local environmental conditions in making his or her determination. Factors that will be considered include, but are not limited to: Size and type of vessel, sea state, winds, wave period, and tidal currents. When a bar is restricted, the operation of recreational and uninspected passenger vessels in the RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section in which the restricted bar is located is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the COTP or a designated representative.


(ii) *Bar closure.* The bars located in the RNAs established in paragraph (a) of this section will be closed to all vessels whenever environmental conditions exceed the operational limitations of the relevant Coast Guard Search and Rescue resources as determined by the COTP. When a bar is closed, the operation of any vessel in the RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section in which the closed bar is located, is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the COTP or a designated representative. For bars having deep draft vessel access, the COTP will consult with the local pilots association, when practicable, prior to closing the affected bar.


(iii) *Notification.* The Coast Guard will notify the public of bar restrictions and bar closures via a Broadcast Notice to Mariners on VHF-FM Channel 16 and 22A. Additionally, Coast Guard personnel may be on-scene to advise the public of any bar restrictions or closures. In some locations, the Coast Guard may use bar warning lights to provide a visual indication of unsafe conditions to the public. Monitoring cameras and associated websites may also provide mariners with additional information in some locations.


(2) *Safety requirements for recreational vessels.* The operator of any recreational vessel operating in an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section shall ensure that all persons located in any unenclosed areas of the recreational vessel are wearing lifejackets and that lifejackets are readily accessible for/to all persons located in any enclosed area of the recreational vessel:


(i) When crossing the bar and a bar restriction exists or


(ii) Whenever the recreational vessel is being towed or escorted across the bar.


(3) *Safety requirements for uninspected passenger vessels (UPVs).* (i) The master or operator of any uninspected passenger vessel operating in an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section shall ensure that all persons located in any unenclosed areas of their vessel are wearing lifejackets and that lifejackets are readily accessible for/to all persons located in any enclosed areas of their vessel uninspected passenger vessel:


(A) When crossing the bar and a bar restriction exists or


(B) Whenever the uninspected passenger vessel is being towed or escorted across the bar.


(ii) The master or operator of any uninspected passenger vessel operating in an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section during the conditions described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section shall contact the Coast Guard on VHF-FM Channel 16 prior to crossing the bar. The master or operator shall report the following:


(A) Vessel name,


(B) Vessel location or position,


(C) Number of persons onboard the vessel and


(D) Vessel destination.


(4) *Safety Requirements for Small Passenger Vessels (SPV).* (i) The master or operator of any small passenger vessel operating in an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section shall ensure that all persons located in any unenclosed areas of the small passenger vessel are wearing lifejackets and that lifejackets are readily accessible for/to all persons located in any enclosed areas of the vessel:


(A) Whenever crossing the bar and a bar restriction exists or


(B) Whenever their vessel is being towed or escorted across the bar.


(ii) Small passenger vessels with bar crossing plans that have been reviewed by and accepted by the Officer in Charge of Marine Inspection (OCMI) are exempt from the safety requirements described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section during the conditions described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section so long as when crossing the bar the master or operator ensures that all persons on their vessel wear lifejackets in accordance with their bar crossing plan. If the vessel's bar crossing plan does not specify the conditions when the persons on their vessel shall wear lifejackets, however, then the master or operator shall comply with the safety requirements provided in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section in its entirety.


(iii) The master or operator of any small passenger vessel operating in an RNA established in paragraph (a) of this section during the conditions described in paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section shall contact the Coast Guard on VHF-FM Channel 16 prior to crossing the bar. The master or operator shall report the following:


(A) Vessel name,


(B) Vessel location or position,


(C) Number of persons on board the vessel and


(D) Vessel destination.


(5) *Safety Requirements for Commercial Fishing Vessels (CFV).* (i) The master or operator of any commercial fishing vessel operating in an RNA described in paragraph (a) of this section shall ensure that all persons located in any unenclosed areas of commercial fishing vessel are wearing lifejackets or immersion suits and that lifejackets or immersion suits are readily accessible for/to all persons located in any enclosed spaces of the vessel:


(A) Whenever crossing the bar and a bar restriction exists or


(B) Whenever the commercial fishing vessel is being towed or escorted across the bar.


(ii) The master or operator of any commercial fishing vessel operating in an RNA described in paragraph (a) of this section during the conditions described in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(A) of this section shall contact the Coast Guard on VHF-FM Channel 16 prior to crossing the bar. The master or operator shall report the following:


(A) Vessel name,


(B) Vessel location or position,


(C) Number of persons on board the vessel and


(D) Vessel destination.


(6) *Penalties.* All persons and vessels within the RNAs described in paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with orders of Coast Guard personnel. Coast Guard personnel includes commissioned, warrant, petty officers, and civilians of the United States Coast Guard. Any person who fails to comply with this regulation is subject to civil penalty in accordance with 46 U.S.C. 70036.



---

[N] [USCG-2019-0785, 85 FR 43440, July 17, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 31167, June 11, 2021]






