# ยง 222.176   What definitions apply to this program?

(a) In addition to the terms referenced in 34 CFR 222.2, the following definitions apply to this program:


*Bond limit* means the cap or limit that a State may impose on an LEA's capacity for bonded indebtedness. For applicants in States that place no limit on an LEA's capacity for bonded indebtedness, the Secretary shall consider the LEA's bond limit to be 10 percent of its total assessed valuation.


*Construction* means 


(1) Preparing drawings and specifications for school facilities;


(2) Repairing, renovating, or altering school facilities;


(3) Extending school facilities as described in ยง 222.172(b);


(4) Erecting or building school facilities, as described in ยง 222.172(c); and


(5) Inspections or supervision related to school facilities projects. 


*Emergency* means a school facility condition that is so injurious or hazardous that it either poses an immediate threat to the health and safety of the facility's students and staff or can be reasonably expected to pose such a threat in the near future. These conditions can include deficiencies in the following building features: a roof; electrical wiring; a plumbing or sewage system; heating, ventilation, or air conditioning; the need to bring a school facility into compliance with fire and safety codes, or providing accessibility for the disabled as part of a larger project. 


*Level of bonded indebtedness* means the amount of long-term debt issued by an LEA divided by the LEA's bonding capacity.


*Minimal capacity to issue bonds* means that the total assessed value of real property in an LEA that may be taxed for school purposes is at least $25,000,000 but not more than $50,000,000.


*Modernization* means the repair, renovation, alteration, or extension of a public elementary or secondary school facility in order to support a contemporary educational program for an LEA's students in normal capacity, and in accordance with the laws, standards, or common practices in the LEA's State. 


*No practical capacity to issue bonds* means that the total assessed value of real property in an LEA that may be taxed for school purposes is less than $25,000,000. 


*School facility* means a building used to provide free public education, including instructional, resource, food service, and general or administrative support areas, so long as they are a part of the facility. 


*Total assessed value per student* means the assessed valuation of real property per pupil (AVPP), unless otherwise defined by an LEA's State. 


(b) The following terms used in this subpart are defined or referenced in 34 CFR 77.1:


