# § 192.1   Definitions.

The following are general definitions for the purposes of this subpart A. 


*Certified.* “Certified” when used with reference to a copy means a document issued by a government authority that includes on it a signed statement by the authority that the copy is an authentic copy of the original.


*Copy.* “Copy” refers to a duplicate or photocopy of an original document. Where there is any writing on the backside of an original document, a “complete copy” means that both sides of the document are copied.


*Export.* “Export” refers to the transportation of merchandise out of the U.S. for the purpose of being entered into the commerce of a foreign country.


*Self-propelled vehicle.* “Self-propelled vehicle” includes any automobile, truck, tractor, bus, motorcycle, motor home, self-propelled agricultural machinery, self-propelled construction equipment, self-propelled special use equipment, and any other self-propelled vehicle used or designed for running on land but not on rail.


*Ultimate purchaser.* “Ultimate purchaser” means the first person, other than a dealer purchasing in his capacity as a dealer, who in good faith purchases a self-propelled vehicle for purposes other than resale.


*Used.* “Used” refers to any self-propelled vehicle the equitable or legal title to which has been transferred by a manufacturer, distributor, or dealer to an ultimate purchaser.



---

[N] [T.D. 89-46, 54 FR 15403, Apr. 18, 1989, as amended by T.D. 99-34, 64 FR 16639, Apr. 6, 1999]




