# § 177.1630   Polyethylene phthalate polymers.

Polyethylene phthalate polymers identified in this section may be safely used as, or components of plastics (films, articles, or fabric) intended for use in contact with food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) Polyethylene phthalate films consist of a base sheet of ethylene terephthalate polymer, ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer, or ethylene-1,4-cyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate copolyesters described in § 177.1315(b)(3), to which have been added optional substances, either as constituents of the base sheet or as constituents of coatings applied to the base sheet.


(b) Polyethylene phthalate articles consist of a base polymer of ethylene terephthalate polymer, or ethylene-1,4-cyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate copolyesters described in § 177.1315(b)(3), to which have been added optional substances, either as constituents of the base polymer or as constituents of coatings applied to the base polymer.


(c)(1) Polyethylene phthalate spunbonded nonwoven fabric consist of continuous filaments of ethylene terephthalate polymer and ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer to which may have been added optional adjuvant substances required in their preparation and finishing.


(2) The ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate copolymer component of the fabric shall not exceed 25 percent by weight. The filaments may be blended with other fibers regulated for the specific use and the spunbonded fabric may be further bonded by application of heat and/or pressure.


(3) The fabric shall be used only in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.


(d) The quantity of any optional substance employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics does not exceed the amount reasonably required to accomplish the intended physical or technical effect or any limitations further provided. Any substance employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics that is the subject of a regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and 179 of this chapter conforms with any specification in such regulation.


(e) Substances employed in the production of polyethylene phthalate plastics include:


(1) Substances generally recognized as safe in food.


(2) Substances subject to prior sanction or approval for use in polyethylene phthalate plastics and used in accordance with such sanction or approval.


(3) Substances which by regulation in parts 174, 175, 176, 177, 178 and § 179.45 of this chapter may be safely used as components of resinous or polymeric food-contact surfaces subject to the provisions of such regulation.


(4) Substances identified in this paragraph (e)(4) subject to the limitations prescribed:


(i) Base sheet:


(ii) Base sheet and base polymer:


(iii) Coatings:


(iv) Emulsifiers:


(v) Modifier:


(f) Polyethylene phthalate plastics conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section:


(1) *Specifications.* (i) The food contact surface, when exposed to distilled water at 250 °F for 2 hours, yields chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.5 mg/in
2 of food contact surface exposed to the solvent; and


(ii) The food contact surface, when exposed to *n*-heptane at 150 °F for 2 hours, yields chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.5 mg/in
2 of food contact surface exposed to the solvent.


(2) *Conditions of use.* The plastics are used for packaging, transporting, or holding food, excluding alcoholic beverages, at temperatures not to exceed 250 °F.


(g) Polyethylene phthalate plastics conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (g)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.


(1) *Specifications.* (i) The food contact surface meets the specifications in paragraph (f)(1) of this section; and


(ii) The food contact surface when exposed to 50 percent ethyl alcohol at 120 °F for 24 hours, yields chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.5 mg/in
2 of food contact surface exposed to the solvent.


(2) *Conditions of use.* The plastics are used for packaging, transporting, or holding alcoholic beverages that do not exceed 50 percent alcohol by volume.


(h) Uncoated polyethylene phthalate plastics consisting of a base sheet or base polymer prepared as prescribed from substances identified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section and conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (h)(1) of this section are used as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section:


(1) *Specifications.* (i) The food contact surface, when exposed to distilled water at 250 °F for 2 hours yields chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.02 milligram/inch 
2 of food contact surface exposed to the solvent; and


(ii) The food contact surface, when exposed to *n-*heptane at 150 °F for 2 hours, yields chloroform-soluble extractives not to exceed 0.02 milligram/inch 
2 of food contact surface exposed to the solvent.


(2) *Conditions of use.* The plastics are used to contain foods during oven baking or oven cooking at temperatures above 250 °F.


(i) Polyethylene phthalate fabric, identified in paragraph (c) of this section and conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, is used only as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.


(1) *Specifications.* Chloroform-soluble extractives shall not exceed 0.2 milligram/inch 
2 of food-contact surface when exposed to the following solvents at temperatures and times indicated:


(i) Distilled water at 212 °F for 2 hours.


(ii) *n-*Heptane at 150 °F for 2 hours.


(iii) 50 percent ethyl alcohol at 120 °F for 24 hours.


(2) *Conditions of use.* The plastics are intended for:


(i) Dry food contact.


(ii) Bulk food (excluding alcoholic beverages) repeated use applications, including filtration, at temperatures not exceeding 212 °F.


(iii) Filtration of bulk alcoholic beverages, not exceeding 50 percent alcohol by volume, at temperatures not exceeding 120 °F.


(j) Polyethylene phthalate plastics, composed of ethylene terephthalate-isophthalate containing a minimum of 98 weight percent of polymer units derived from ethylene terephthalate, or ethylene-1,4-cyclohexylene dimethylene terephthalate copolyesters described in § 177.1315(b)(3), conforming with the specifications prescribed in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, are used as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.


(1) *Specifications.* (i) The food contact surface meets the specifications in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and


(ii)(*a*) *Containers with greater than 500 mL capacity.* The food-contact surface when exposed to 95 percent ethanol at 120 °F for 24 hours should not yield chloroform-soluble extractives in excess of 0.005 mg/in 
2.


(*b*) *Containers with less than or equal to 500 mL capacity.* The food contact surface when exposed to 95 percent ethanol at 120 °F for 24 hours should not yield chloroform-soluble extractives in excess of 0.05 mg/in 
2.


(2) *Conditions of use.* The plastics are used for packaging, transporting, or holding alcoholic foods that do not exceed 95 percent alcohol by volume.



---

[N] [42 FR 14572, Mar. 15, 1977]


