# § 300.137   Equitable services determined.

(a) *No individual right to special education and related services.* No parentally-placed private school child with a disability has an individual right to receive some or all of the special education and related services that the child would receive if enrolled in a public school.


(b) *Decisions.* (1) Decisions about the services that will be provided to parentally-placed private school children with disabilities under §§ 300.130 through 300.144 must be made in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and § 300.134(d).


(2) The LEA must make the final decisions with respect to the services to be provided to eligible parentally-placed private school children with disabilities.


(c) *Services plan for each child served under §§ 300.130 through 300.144.* If a child with a disability is enrolled in a religious or other private school by the child's parents and will receive special education or related services from an LEA, the LEA must—


(1) Initiate and conduct meetings to develop, review, and revise a services plan for the child, in accordance with § 300.138(b); and


(2) Ensure that a representative of the religious or other private school attends each meeting. If the representative cannot attend, the LEA shall use other methods to ensure participation by the religious or other private school, including individual or conference telephone calls.



---

[N] [71 FR 46753, Aug. 14, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 61306, Oct. 30, 2007]




