# § 157.13   Form of exhibits to be attached to applications.

Each exhibit attached to an application must conform to the following requirements: 


(a) *General requirements.* Each exhibit must be submitted in the manner prescribed in §§ 157.6(a) and 385.2011 of this chapter and contain a title page showing applicant's name, docket number (to be left blank), title of the exhibit, the proper letter designation of the exhibit, and, if of 10 or more pages, a table of contents, citing by page, section number or subdivision, the component elements or matters therein contained. 


(b) *Reference to annual reports and previous applications.* An application may refer to annual reports and previous applications filed with the Commission and shall specify the exact pages or exhibit numbers of the filing to which reference is made, including the page numbers in any exhibit to which reference is made. When reference is made to a previous application the docket number shall be stated. No part of a rejected application may be incorporated by reference. 


(c) *Interdependent applications.* When an application considered alone is incomplete and depends vitally upon information in another application, it will not be accepted for filing until the supporting application has been filed. When applications are interdependent, they shall be filed concurrently. 


(d) *Measurement base.* All gas volumes, including gas purchased from producers, shall be stated upon a uniform basis of measurement, and, in addition, if the uniform basis of measurement used in any application is other than 14.73 p.s.i.a., then any volume or volumes delivered to or received from any interstate natural-gas pipeline company shall also be stated upon a basis of 14.73 p.s.i.a.; similarly, total volumes on all summary sheets, as well as grand totals of volumes in any exhibit, shall also be stated upon a basis of 14.73 p.s.i.a. if the uniform basis of measurement used is other than 14.73 p.s.i.a.



---

[N] [17 FR 7387, Aug. 14, 1952, as amended by Order 185, 21 FR 1486, Mar. 8, 1956; Order 280, 29 FR 4877, Apr. 7, 1964; Order 493, 53 FR 15029, Apr. 27, 1988]




