# ยง 19.1   Definitions.

For purposes of this regulation, the term: 


(a) *Financial institution* means any office of a bank, savings bank, card issuer as defined in section 103 of the Consumer Credit Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1602(n)), industrial loan company, trust company, savings and loan, building and loan, or homestead association (including cooperative banks), credit union, consumer financial institution, located in any State or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands. 


(b) *Financial record* means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from, any record held by a financial institution pertaining to a customer's relationship with the financial institution. 


(c) *Person* means an individual or a partnership of five or fewer individuals. 


(d) *Customer* means any persons or authorized representative of that person who utilized or is utilizing any service of a financial institution, or for whom a financial institution is acting or has acted as a fiduciary, in relation to an account maintained in the person's name. 


(e) *Law enforcement inquiry* means a lawful investigation or official proceeding inquiring into a violation of or failure to comply with any criminal or civil statute or any regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto. 


(f) *Departmental unit* means those offices, divisions bureaus, or other components of the Department of Labor authorized to conduct law enforcement inquiries. 


(g) *Act* means the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978.




