# § 3282.207   Manufactured home consumer manual requirements.

(a) The manufacturer shall provide a consumer manual with each manufactured home that enters the first stage of production on or after July 31, 1977, pursuant to section 617 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5416.


(b) The manufacturer shall provide the consumer manual by placing a manual in each such manufactured home before the manufactured home leaves the manufacturing plant. The manual shall be placed in a conspicuous location in a manner likely to assure that it is not removed until the purchaser removes it.


(c) If a manufacturer is informed that a purchaser did not receive a consumer manual, the manufacturer shall provide the appropriate manual to the purchaser within 30 days of being so informed.


(d) No retailer or distributor may interfere with the distribution of the consumer manual. When necessary, the retailer or distributor shall take any appropriate steps to assure that the purchaser receives a consumer manual from the manufacturer.


(e) *Dispute resolution information.* (1) The manufacturer must include the following language under a heading of “Dispute Resolution Process” in the consumer manual:


(2) The manufacturer must include the following language under a heading of “Additional Information “ HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program” in the consumer manual:


(f) If a consumer manual or a change or revision to a manual does not substantially comply with the guidelines issued by HUD, the manufacturer shall cease distribution of the consumer manual and shall provide a corrected manual for each manufactured home for which the inadequate or incorrect manual or revision was provided. A manual substantially complies with the guidelines if it includes the language in paragraph (e) of this section and presents current material on each of the subjects covered in the guidelines in sufficient detail to inform consumers about the operation, maintenance, and repair of manufactured homes. An updated copy of guidelines published in the _Federal Register_ on March 15, 1996, can be obtained by contacting the Office of Manufactured Housing and Regulatory Functions, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC, 20410; the Information Center, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 1202, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC, 20410; or any HUD Area or State Office.



---

[N] [61 FR 10860, Mar. 15, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 27228, May 14, 2007]




