# § 412.521   Basis of payment.

(a) *Method of payment.* (1) Under the prospective payment system, long-term care hospitals receive a predetermined payment amount per discharge for inpatient services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. 


(2) Except as provided for in § 412.526, the amount of payment under the prospective payment system is based on either the long-term care hospital prospective payment system standard Federal payment rate established in accordance with § 412.523, including adjustments described in § 412.525, or the site neutral payment rate established in accordance with § 412.522(c), or, if applicable during a transition period, the blend of the LTCH PPS standard Federal payment rate and the applicable site neutral payment rate described in § 412.522(c)(3).


(b) *Payment in full.* (1) The payment made under this subpart represents payment in full (subject to applicable deductibles and coinsurance described in subpart G of part 409 of this subchapter) for covered inpatient operating costs as described in §§ 412.2(c)(1) through (c)(4) of this part and § 412.540 and capital-related costs described in subpart G of part 413 of this subchapter associated with furnishing Medicare covered services in long-term care hospitals. 


(2) In addition to payment based on prospective payment rates, long-term care hospitals may receive payments separate from payments under the prospective payment system for the following: 


(i) The costs of approved medical education programs described in §§ 413.75 through 413.83, 413.85, and 413.87 of this subchapter. 


(ii) Bad debts of Medicare beneficiaries, as provided in § 413.89 of this subchapter. 


(iii) A payment amount per unit for blood clotting factor provided to Medicare inpatients who have hemophilia. 


(iv) Anesthesia services furnished by hospital employed nonphysician anesthetists or obtained under arrangements, as specified in § 412.113(c)(2). 


(v) The costs of photocopying and mailing medical records requested by a QIO, in accordance with § 476.78(c) of this chapter. 


(c) *Payment by workers' compensation, automobile medical, no-fault or liability insurance or an employer group health plan primary to Medicare.* If workers' compensation, automobile medical, no-fault, or liability insurance or an employer group health plan that is primary to Medicare pays in full or in part, payment is determined in accordance with the guidelines specified in § 412.120(b). 


(d) *Effect of change of ownership on payments under the prospective payment system.* When a hospital's ownership changes, as described in § 489.18 of this chapter, the following rules apply: 


(1) Payment for the operating and capital-related costs of inpatient hospital services for each patient, including outlier payments as provided in § 412.525 and payments for hemophilia clotting factor costs as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, are made to the entity that is the legal owner on the date of discharge. Payments are not prorated between the buyer and seller. 


(i) The owner on the date of discharge is entitled to submit a bill for all inpatient hospital services furnished to a beneficiary regardless of when the beneficiary's coverage began or ended during a stay, or of how long the stay lasted. 


(ii) Each bill submitted must include all information necessary for the intermediary to compute the payment amount, whether or not some of that information is attributable to a period during which a different party legally owned the hospital. 


(2) Other payments for the direct costs of approved medical education programs, bad debts, anesthesia services furnished by hospital employed nonphysician anesthetists, and costs of photocopying and mailing medical records to the QIO as provided for under paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of this section are made to each owner or operator of the hospital (buyer and seller) in accordance with the principles of reasonable cost reimbursement. 


(e) *Special payment provisions for patients in acute care hospitals that change classification status to LTCH status during a patient stay.* (1) If a patient is admitted to an acute care hospital and then the acute care hospital meets the criteria at § 412.23(e) to be paid as a LTCH during the course of the patient's hospitalization, Medicare considers all the days of the patient stay in the facility (days prior to and after the designation of LTCH status) to be a single episode of LTCH care. Payment for the entire patient stay (days prior to and after the designation of LTCH status) will include the day and cost data for that patient at both the acute care hospital and the LTCH in determining the payment to the LTCH under this subpart. The requirements of this paragraph (e)(1) apply only to a patient stay in which a patient is in an acute care hospital and that hospital is designated as a LTCH on or after October 1, 2004.


(2) The days of the patient's stay prior to and after the hospital's designation as a LTCH as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are included for purposes of determining the beneficiary's length of stay.



---

[N] [67 FR 56049, Aug. 30, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 34162, June 6, 2003; 69 FR 49250, Aug. 11, 2004; 70 FR 47487, Aug. 12, 2005; 75 FR 50416, Aug. 16, 2010; 79 FR 50355, Aug. 22, 2014; 80 FR 49768, Aug. 17, 2015]




