# § 200.110   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, with respect to terms not defined in this section but defined in 32 CFR 199.2, the definition in such § 199.2 shall apply. For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


*Assessment* means the amounts described in this part and includes the plural of that term.


*Claim* means an application for payment for an item or service under TRICARE/CHAMPUS.


*Defense Health Agency or DHA* means the Director of the Defense Health Agency or designee.


*Items and services or items or services* includes without limitation, any item, device, drug, biological, supply, or service (including management or administrative services), including, but not limited to, those that are listed in an itemized claim for program payment or a request for payment; for which payment is included in any TRICARE/CHAMPUS reimbursement method, such as a prospective payment system or managed care system; or that are, in the case of a claim based on costs, required to be entered in a cost report, books of account, or other documents supporting the claim (whether or not actually entered).


*Knowingly* means that a person, with respect to an act, has actual knowledge of the act, acts in deliberate ignorance of the act, or acts in reckless disregard of the act, and no proof of specific intent to defraud is required.


*Material* means having a natural tendency to influence, or be capable of influencing, the payment or receipt of money or property.


*Non-separately-billable item or service* means an item or service that is a component of, or otherwise contributes to the provision of, an item or a service, but is not itself a separately billable item or service.


*Office of Inspector General or OIG* means the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense; the Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS); or the Office of Inspector General for the Defense Health Agency.


*Overpayment* means any funds that a person receives or retains under TRICARE/CHAMPUS to which the person, after applicable reconciliation, is not entitled under such program.


*Penalty* means the amount described in this part and includes the plural of that term.


*Person* means an individual, trust or estate, partnership, corporation, professional association or corporation, or other entity, public or private.


*Preventive care,* for purposes of the definition of the term “remuneration” as set forth in this section and the preventive care exception to section 231(h) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), means any service that—


(1) Is a prenatal service or a post-natal well-baby visit or is a specific clinical service covered by TRICARE; and


(2) Is reimbursable in whole or in part by TRICARE as a preventive care service.


*Reasonable request,* with respect to § 200.200(b)(6), means a written request, signed by a designated representative of the OIG and made by a properly identified agent of the OIG during reasonable business hours. The request will include: A statement of the authority for the request, the person's rights in responding to the request, the definition of “reasonable request” and “failure to grant timely access” under this part, the deadline by which the OIG requests access, and the amount of the civil money penalty or assessment that could be imposed for failure to comply with the request, and the earliest date that a request for reinstatement would be considered.


*Remuneration,* for the purposes of this part, is consistent with the definition in section 1128A(i)(6) of the Social Security Act and includes the waiver of copayment, coinsurance and deductible amounts (or any part thereof) and transfers of items or services for free or for other than fair market value. The term “remuneration” does not include:


(1) The waiver of coinsurance and deductible amounts by a person, if the waiver is not offered as part of any advertisement or solicitation; the person does not routinely waive coinsurance or deductible amounts; and the person waives coinsurance and deductible amounts after determining in good faith that the individual is in financial need or failure by the person to collect coinsurance or deductible amounts after making reasonable collection efforts.


(2) Any permissible practice as specified in section 1128B(b)(3) of the Act or in regulations issued by the Secretary.


(3) Differentials in coinsurance and deductible amounts as part of a benefit plan design (as long as the differentials have been disclosed in writing to all beneficiaries, third party payers and providers), to whom claims are presented.


(4) Incentives given to individuals to promote the delivery of preventive care services where the delivery of such services is not tied (directly or indirectly) to the provision of other services reimbursed in whole or in part by TRICARE, Medicare or an applicable State health care program. Such incentives may include the provision of preventive care, but may not include—


(i) Cash or instruments convertible to cash; or


(ii) An incentive the value of which is disproportionally large in relationship to the value of the preventive care service (*i.e.,* either the value of the service itself or the future health care costs reasonably expected to be avoided as a result of the preventive care).


(5) Items or services that improve a beneficiary's ability to obtain items and services payable by TRICARE, and pose a low risk of harm to TRICARE beneficiaries and the TRICARE program by—


(i) Being unlikely to interfere with, or skew, clinical decision making;


(ii) Being unlikely to increase costs to Federal health care programs or beneficiaries through overutilization or inappropriate utilization; and


(iii) Not raising patient safety or quality-of-care concerns.


(6) The offer or transfer of items or services for free or less than fair market value by a person if—


(i) The items or services consist of coupons, rebates, or other rewards from a retailer;


(ii) The items or services are offered or transferred on equal terms available to the general public, regardless of health insurance status; and


(iii) The offer or transfer of the items or services is not tied to the provision of other items or services reimbursed in whole or in part by the program under chapter 55 of title 10, U.S. Code.


(7) The offer or transfer of items or services for free or less than fair market value by a person, if—


(i) The items or services are not offered as part of any advertisement or solicitation;


(ii) The offer or transfer of the items or services is not tied to the provision of other items or services reimbursed in whole or in part by the program under chapter 55 of title 10, U.S. Code;


(iii) There is a reasonable connection between the items or services and the medical care of the individual; and


(iv) The person provides the items or services after determining in good faith that the individual is in financial need.


*Request for payment* means an application submitted by a person to any person for payment for an item or service.


*Respondent* means the person upon whom the Department has imposed, or proposes to impose, a penalty and/or assessment.


*Separately billable item or service* means an item or service for which an identifiable payment may be made under a Federal health care program, *e.g.,* an itemized claim or a payment under a prospective payment system or other reimbursement methodology.


*Should know, or should have known,* means that a person, with respect to information, either acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the information or acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the information. For purposes of this definition, no proof of specific intent to defraud is required.


*TRICARE or TRICARE/CHAMPUS or CHAMPUS* means any program operated under the authority of 32 CFR part 199.




