# ยง 85.47   Program crediting.

(a) *Crediting logo.* As the source of funding for Clean Vessel Act facilities, the Sport Fish Restoration program should get credit through use of the Sport Fish Restoration logo. Grant recipients may us the crediting logo identified in 50 CFR 80.99 to identify projects funded by the Clean Vessel Act. The Sport Fish Restoration logo follows: 


(b) *Recipient logo display.* Grant recipients are authorized to display the Sport Fish Restoration logo. Section 85.11 identifies recipients eligible to display the appropriate logo according to 50 CFR 80.99. Display includes on pumpout and portable toilet dump stations that grantees acquire, develop, operate or maintain by these grants, or on printed material or other visual representations relating to project accomplishments or education/information. Display the logo in the appropriate location, according to ยง 85.43(e). Symbol or logo size may vary. However, if your reduce or enlarge the symbol, maintain the same proportions. Recipients may require sub-recipients to display the logo.


(c) *Other display of logo.* Other persons or organizations may use the logo for purposes related to the Wildlife and Sport Fish Restoration Clean Vessel Act program as authorized in 50 CFR 80.99.


(d) *Crediting language.* Suggested examples of language to use when crediting the Clean Vessel Act follow:


(1) *Example 1.* The Sport Fish Restoration Program funded this pumpout facility through your purchase of fishing equipment and motorboat fuels.


(2) *Example 2.* The Sport Fish Restoration Program funded this construction through your purchase of fishing equipment and motorboat fuels.


(3) *Example 3.* The Sport Fish Restoration Program funded the production of this pamphlet through your purchase of fishing equipment and motorboat fuels.


(e) *Logo colors.* Option 1 in paragraph (e)(1) of this section describes the preferred logo colors. Use Options 2 or 3 in paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section when necessary or to reduce costs. Do not attempt to match these Pantone Matching Systems (PMS) colors with combinations of screened process colors.


(1) *Option 1.* When printed 100 percent on a white background, use PMS 348.


(2) *Option 2.* When using four-color process printing, print the symbol in 100 percent black on a white background.


(3) *Option 3.* When it is not possible to follow the specifications of Options 1 or 2 in paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section, print the logo in any 100 percent solid dark color on a contrasting light background.



---

[N] [62 FR 45350, Aug. 27, 1997, as amended at 78 FR 35153, June 12, 2013]




