# ยง 1.382-7   Built-in gains and losses.

(a) *Treatment of prepaid income.* For purposes of section 382(h), prepaid income is not recognized built-in gain. The term *prepaid income* means any amount received prior to the change date that is attributable to performance occurring on or after the change date. Examples to which this paragraph (a) will apply include, but are not limited to, income received prior to the change date that is deferred under section 455 or Rev. Proc. 2004-34 (2004-1 CB 991 (June 1, 2004)) (or any successor revenue procedure) (see ยง 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b)).


(b) *Effective/applicability dates.* This section applies to loss corporations that have undergone an ownership change on or after June 11, 2010. For loss corporations that have undergone an ownership change before June 11, 2010, see ยง 1.382-7T as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2009.


(c) [Reserved]


(d) *Special rules.* This paragraph (d) contains special rules regarding the identification of recognized built-in losses.


(1)-(4) [Reserved]


(5) *Section 382 disallowed business interest carryforwards.* Section 382 disallowed business interest carryforwards are not treated as recognized built-in losses.


(e)-(f) [Reserved]


(g) *Applicability dates.*

(1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Paragraph (d)(5) of this section.* Paragraph (d)(5) of this section applies with respect to an ownership change occurring on or after November 13, 2020. For loss corporations that have undergone an ownership change before or after November 13, 2020, see ยง 1.382-7 as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2019. However, taxpayers and their related parties, within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b)(1), may choose to apply the rules of paragraph (d)(5) of this section to testing dates occurring during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017.



---

[N] [T.D. 9487, 75 FR 33992, June 16, 2010, as amended by T.D. 9870, 84 FR 33692, July 15, 2019; T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56837, Sept. 14, 2020]




