# ยง 702.432   Debarment process.

(a) *Pertaining to health care providers.* Upon receipt of information indicating that a physician or health care provider has engaged in activities enumerated in subparagraphs (a) through (c) of ยง 702.431, the Director, through the Director's designees, may evaluate the information (as described in ยง 702.414) to ascertain whether proceedings should be initiated against the physician or health care provider to remove authorization to render medical care or service under the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.


(b) *Pertaining to health care providers and claims representatives.* If after appropriate investigation the Director determines that proceedings should be initiated, written notice thereof must be provided to the physician, health care provider or claims representative. Notice must contain the following:


(1) A concise statement of the grounds upon which debarment will be based;


(2) A summary of the information upon which the director has relied in reaching an initial decision that debarment proceedings should be initiated;


(3) An invitation to the physician, health care provider or claims representative to: (i) Resign voluntarily from participation in the program without admitting or denying the allegations presented in the written notice; or (ii) request a decision on debarment to be based upon the existing agency record and any other information the physician, health care provider or claims representative may wish to provide;


(4) A notice of the physician's, health care provider's or claims representative's right, in the event of an adverse ruling by the Director, to request a formal hearing before an administrative law judge;


(5) A notice that should the physician, health care provider or claims representative fail to provide written answer to the written notice described in this section within thirty (30) days of receipt, the Director may deem the allegations made therein to be true and may order exclusion of the physician, health care provider or claims representative without conducting any further proceedings; and


(6) The name and address of the district director who will be responsible for receiving the answer from the physician, health care provider or claims representative.


(c) Should the physician, health care provider or claims representative fail to file a written answer to the notice described in this section within thirty (30) days of receipt thereof, the Director may deem the allegations made therein to be true and may order debarment of the physician, health care provider or claims representative.


(d) The physician, health care provider or claims representative may inspect or request copies of information in the agency records at any time prior to the Director's decision.


(e) The Director must issue a decision in writing, and must send a copy of the decision to the physician, health care provider or claims representative. The decision must advise the physician, health care provider or claims representative of the right to request, within thirty (30) days of the date of an adverse decision, a formal hearing before an administrative law judge under the procedures set forth herein. The filing of such a request for hearing within the time specified will operate to stay the effectiveness of the decision to debar.



---

[N] [50 FR 404, Jan. 3, 1985, as amended at 80 FR 12932, Mar. 12, 2015]




