# § 207.3   Service, filing, and certification of documents.

(a) *Certification.* Any person submitting factual information on behalf of the petitioner or any other interested party for inclusion in the record, and any person submitting a response to a Commission questionnaire, must certify that such information is accurate and complete to the best of the submitter's knowledge. 


(b) *Service.* Any party submitting a document for inclusion in the record of the investigation shall, in addition to complying with § 201.8 of this chapter, serve a copy of each such document on all other parties to the investigation in the manner prescribed in § 201.16 of this chapter. If a document is filed before the Secretary's issuance of the service list provided for in § 201.11 of this chapter or the administrative protective order list provided for in § 207.7, the document need not be accompanied by a certificate of service, but the document shall be served on all appropriate parties within two (2) days of the issuance of the service list or the administrative protective order list and a certificate of service shall then be filed. Notwithstanding § 201.16 of this chapter, petitions, briefs, requests to close a portion of the hearing, comments on requests to close a portion of the hearing, and testimony filed by parties pursuant to §§ 207.10, 207.15, 207.23, 207.24, 207.25, 207.65, 207.66, and 207.67, shall be served by hand or, if served by mail, by overnight mail or its equivalent. Failure to comply with the requirements of this rule may result in removal from status as a party to the investigation. The Commission shall make available to all parties to the investigation a copy of each document, except transcripts of conferences and hearings, business proprietary information, privileged information, and information required to be served under this section, placed in the record of the investigation by the Commission.


(c) *Filing.* Documents to be filed with the Commission must comply with applicable rules, including § 201.8 of this chapter. If the Commission establishes a deadline for the filing of a document, and the submitter includes business proprietary information in the document, the submitter is to file and, if the submitter is a party, serve the business proprietary version of the document on the deadline and may file and serve the nonbusiness proprietary version of the document no later than one business day after the deadline for filing the document. The business proprietary version shall enclose all business proprietary information in brackets and have the following warning marked on every page: “Bracketing of BPI not final for one business day after date of filing.” The bracketing becomes final one business day after the date of filing of the document, *i.e.,* at the same time as the nonbusiness proprietary version of the document is due to be filed. Until the bracketing becomes final, recipients of the document may not divulge any part of the contents of the document to anyone not subject to the administrative protective order issued in the investigation. If the submitter discovers it has failed to bracket correctly, the submitter may file a corrected version or portion of the business proprietary document at the same time as the nonbusiness proprietary version is filed. No changes, including typographical changes, to the document other than bracketing and deletion of business proprietary information are permitted after the deadline unless an extension of time is granted to file an amended document pursuant to § 201.14(b)(2) of this chapter. Failure to comply with this paragraph may result in the striking from the record of all or a portion of a submitter's document. 



---

[N] [44 FR 76468, Dec. 26, 1979, as amended at 61 FR 37829, July 22, 1996; 63 FR 30607, June 5, 1998; 70 FR 8511, Feb. 22, 2005]




