# § 310.4   Training Ship.

The Administration may furnish a Training Ship, if such is available, to any School. Training Ships which may be designated for use by a School will be delivered to the School at a location determined by the Administration, in condition found to be in class by the American Bureau of Shipping and certificated by the U.S. Coast Guard. If a Training Ship is not available, adequate cruising facilities shall be the responsibility of the State and its School. The furnishing of a Training Ship shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:


(a) *General provisions.* (1) The State, acting through the School shall exercise reasonable care to safeguard the interests of the Administration and avoid (i) injury to any person aboard the Training Ship, and (ii) loss and damage of every nature with respect to the Training Ship. Also, the school shall have reasonable layup procedures during noncruise status of the Training Ship.


(2) Excerpts from log books and reports shall be submitted as directed by the Supervisor.


(3) Initial telegraphic or telephonic reports shall be made promptly to the Supervisor and the appropriate Region Director in the event of an accident causing (i) serious injury to any person, or to the Training Ship, or (ii) damage inflicted by the Training Ship upon any other ship or other property. Such reports shall be followed by complete written details of the occurrence.


(4) The Supervisor shall determine whether or not the berth of the Training Ship at the base in its home port is suitable from the standpoint of safe mooring. When the Training Ship is not on cruise, the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall keep the Supervisor informed of the location of the Training Ship and any contemplated change of berth.


(5) The following notice shall be posted conspicuously aboard each Training Ship furnished to a State for use by a School:


This training ship is the property of the United States of America. It is furnished to the State of ________ by the Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, for the purpose of training young men and women to become officers in the merchant marine of the United States. Neither the State, the Commanding Officer, nor any other person has any right, power or authority to create, incur or permit to be imposed upon this vessel, any lien whatever.


(6) No changes requiring U.S. Coast Guard approval shall be made to the Training Ship without the written approval of the Administration.


(7) In the event of the termination of the use of a Training Ship by the State or by the Maritime Administrator, the State shall return to the State base port, the Training Ship and all property whatsoever owned by the Administration. Title to all additions, replacements, and renewals made by the State shall vest in the Administration without charge.


(b) *Termination of use.* The Maritime Administrator may terminate the use of a Training Ship upon such reasonable notice to the State as the circumstances may permit in the judgment of the Maritime Administrator. If use of the Training Ship is terminated by the Maritime Administrator, the Maritime Administrator may:


(1) Substitute another Training Ship;


(2) Require the sharing of a Training Ship by two or more Schools; or


(3) Cooperate with the School in arranging for training time aboard commercial vessels for its Cadets and Midshipmen.


(c) *Property aboard the Training Ship.* The State shall have the complete use of a Training Ship as defined, subject to the following terms and conditions:


(1) All property, or its equivalent furnished by the Administration, shall be returned to the Administration when use of the Training Ship is terminated. The only exceptions are: spare and replacement parts consumed; and losses due to ordinary wear and tear, unavoidable accident and perils of the sea. All other property otherwise lost or destroyed shall be replaced at the expense of the State.


(2) Administration property shall not be permanently removed from the Training Ship to the shore base without the prior written approval of the Supervisor.


(3) The administration shall take inventories of State and Federal property aboard the Training Ship at such times as it deems necessary. The school, at its expense, shall furnish such assistance as may be necessary in taking such inventories.


(d) *Condition surveys.* Before a Training Ship is released to a School and manned by officers under State control, a condition survey shall be made by duly authorized representatives of the School and the Administration. If the Training Ship is found in order, the School representative shall sign a receipt for the Training Ship. Subsequently, after due notice to the State authorities, a condition survey may be made of the Training Ship whenever deemed advisable by the Administration, and, in any event, upon redelivery of the Training Ship by the State to the Administration.


(e) *Maintenance and repairs*—(1) *Administration payment.* A Training Ship shall be maintained in good repair by the Secretary as provided by the 1958 Act and the Act. Expenses for repairs, changes and alterations, repairs to equipage and replacements of equipage in accordance with the Administration's approved allowance lists for the Training Ship (i.e. authorized under the Act and to the extent that funds are available), shall be borne by the Administration under the following terms and conditions:


(i) When it is necessary to repair or drydock the Training Ship because of damage (except in an emergency, when on foreign cruise), the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall notify the Supervisor and appropriate Region Director by telephone or telegraph in order to enable a representative of the Region Director, if available, to be present, when the survey of the damage is made.


(ii) Repairs which need not be carried out during the annual overhaul period shall be made by the Cadets or Midshipmen, if possible, under the supervision of the officers. When repair material is required for this purpose, the Commanding Officer or Superintendent shall forward to the Supervisor a list of such material and estimated costs, and a description of the repairs to be carried out by the Cadets or Midshipmen. The Supervisor shall promptly advise the Commanding Officer or Superintendent whether or not such work comes under the heading of repairs, and if procurement of the material is authorized.


(iii) Requisitions covering repairs, renewals, and betterments shall be prepared in quintuplicate by the heads of departments of the Training Ship and submitted by the Commanding Officer or Superintendent to the Supervisor at least forty-five (45) days before the date of the annual overhaul, with one copy to the Region Director.


(iv) The State is authorized to expend not to exceed $5,000 for emergency repairs which become necessary while the Training Ship is on foreign cruise. The Administration shall reimburse the State upon submission of vouchers to, and approval by, the Maritime Administrator. To obtain reimbursement for emergency repairs estimated to cost in excess of $5,000, authorization must be obtained by the State from the Supervisor prior to undertaking such repairs. The Commanding Officer shall be responsible for all necessary filings with the United States Customs Service to avoid duties upon all emergency repairs performed outside the United States. If penalties are imposed, for non-filing or improper filing, they shall be solely the responsibility of the State.


(2) *State payment.* Except as otherwise provided in this section, the State shall, at its own expense, accomplish the following:


(i) Undertake usual preventive maintenance of the Training Ship, adhere to minimum levels of preventive maintenance as prescribed by the Administration, and keep the Training Ship clean and painted, above the waterline according to good maritime practices.


(ii) Cause the Training Ship to be fumigated if required by the Administration and forward to the Supervisor a copy of the fumigation certificate.


(iii) Pay for all consumable stores, freshwater and costs incidental to the operation of the Training Ship.


(iv) Pay for fuel of the training ship except that the Administration may assist in paying the cost of fuel consumed on the Training Ship while being used for training purposes if funds are appropriated and available for such purposes.


(f) *Cruises.* The school shall submit the cruise itinerary of the Training Ship including a listing of foreign ports to be visited, for approval of the Supervisor at least sixty (60) days in advance of the date such cruise is scheduled to begin. The Supervisor shall arrange with the Department of State for clearance of the Training Ship to visit foreign ports.


(g) *Hospitalization.* The School shall be responsible for all medical treatment and hospitalization of all persons aboard the Training Ship at all times, including officers and Cadets and Midshipmen. If available, facilities of the United States Public Health Service should be utilized.


(h) *Repatriation and return to home port.* The School shall be responsible for the return to the home port of the Training Ship of all persons, including officers and Cadets and Midshipmen, who originally embarked on a training cruise from a Continental United States port and who are left behind, after the departure of the Training Ship from any port, foreign or domestic, or are to be brought home from the ship at any time or for any reason. The School shall be solely responsible for all expenses of repatriation and return to home port.




