# § 498.2   Definitions.

As used in this part—


*Affected party* means a provider, prospective provider, supplier, prospective supplier, or practitioner that is affected by an initial determination or by any subsequent determination or decision issued under this part, and “party” means the affected party or CMS, as appropriate. For provider or supplier enrollment appeals, an affected party includes CMS or a CMS contractor.


*ALJ* stands for Administrative Law Judge.


*Departmental Appeals Board* or *Board* means a Board established in the Office of the Secretary to provide impartial review of disputed decisions made by the operating components of the Department. 


*OIG* stands for the Department's Office of the Inspector General.


*Prospective provider* means any of the entities specified in the definition of provider under this section that seeks to be approved for coverage of its services by Medicare or to have any facility or organization determined to be a department of the provider or provider-based entity under § 413.65 of this chapter.


*Prospective supplier* means any of the listed entities specified in the definition of supplier in this section that seek to be approved for coverage of its services by Medicare.


*Provider* means any of the following:


(1) Any of the following entities that have in effect an agreement to participate in Medicare:


(i) Hospital.


(ii) Transplant center.


(iii) Critical access hospital (CAH).


(iv) Skilled nursing facility (SNF).


(v) Comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation facility (CORF).


(vi) Home health agency (HHA).


(vii) Hospice.


(viii) Religious nonmedical health care institution (RNHCI).


(2) Any of the following entities that have in effect an agreement to participate in Medicare but only to furnish outpatient physical therapy or outpatient speech pathology services.


(i) Clinic.


(ii) Rehabilitation agency.


(iii) Public health agency.


(3) An entity that has in effect an agreement to participate in Medicare but only to furnish opioid use disorder treatment services.


*Supplier* means any of the following entities that have in effect an agreement to participate in Medicare:


(1) An independent laboratory.


(2) Supplier of durable medical equipment prosthetics, orthotics, or supplies (DMEPOS).


(3) Ambulance service provider.


(4) Independent diagnostic testing facility.


(5) Physician or other practitioner such as physician assistant.


(6) For purposes of this part, a physical therapist in private practice, an occupational therapist in private practice, or a speech-language pathologist.


(7) Supplier of portable X-ray services.


(8) Rural health clinic (RHC).


(9) Federally qualified health center (FQHC).


(10) Ambulatory surgical center (ASC).


(11) An entity approved by CMS to furnish outpatient diabetes self-management training.


(12) End-stage renal disease (ESRD) treatment facility that is approved by CMS as meeting the conditions for coverage of its services. 


(13) A site approved by CMS to furnish intensive cardiac rehabilitation services.



---

[N] [52 FR 22446, June 12, 1987]


