# § 401.41   Limitation of approval; dormant applications.

(a) *Extension (no material change)*—(1) *Term of approval; extension request.* For any Commission approval not assigned an expiration date, the Commission's approval shall expire five years from the approval date unless prior thereto the Commission extends the approval for an additional period of up to five years, based upon a written request from the project sponsor accompanied by supporting documentation demonstrating that the following criteria have been met:


(i) No material changes to the project as approved are proposed;


(ii) The condition of the project site has not changed in a manner important to determining whether the project would substantially impair or conflict with the Commission's Comprehensive Plan;


(iii) The Commission's Comprehensive Plan has not changed in a manner important to determining whether the project would substantially impair or conflict with the Comprehensive Plan; and


(iv) The project sponsor is diligently pursuing the project as shown by its planning, construction or project operational activities, its project expenditures, its efforts to secure government approvals necessary for the project, or its active participation in appeals of government decisions on its applications for government approvals. The project sponsor is not required by this paragraph (a)(1)(iv) to conduct activities that it is not legally authorized to conduct or that it demonstrates would be unreasonable for it to conduct before obtaining all necessary final government approvals.


(2) *Denial of extension request.* Otherwise, the extension request shall be denied, and the project sponsor may apply for renewal of its approval under paragraph (b) of this section by a date to be established by the Commission. If the Commission denies the request for an extension pursuant to this section, the docket approval shall not be administratively continued automatically pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The Commission may, however, in its discretion, administratively extend the docket approval in whole or in part for a period ending on or before the date on which the Commission renders a final decision on the sponsor's re-application under paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *Public notice.* The Commission will publish notice of receipt of a request for extension under this paragraph (a) and will provide notice at least ten days prior to the date of a business meeting at which the Commissioners may act on such request.


(4) *Public comment.* An opportunity for written comment of at least ten days' length will be provided on a request for extension. The project sponsor will be afforded an opportunity to respond in writing to the comments received. A public hearing will be provided if three or more Commission members ask the Executive Director in writing to schedule one or vote during a public meeting of the Commission to provide one.


(5) *Administrative continuance.* A docket that is the subject of a request for extension under paragraph (a) of this section filed at least 90 days before the docket's expiration shall be administratively continued pending the Commission's final action on the request in the event that such action occurs after the otherwise effective date of termination under this section.


(6) *Extensions no longer needed.* If the activities authorized by a docket are limited to construction activities, an extension is no longer required once construction is complete; however, the expiration of the docket, including any approved extension, does not eliminate ongoing docket obligations expressly identified as such in the docket approval.


(b) *Re-application (material change).* If the Commission determines that the project sponsor has failed to demonstrate that no material changes to the project as approved are proposed and that the other criteria listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are satisfied, the project sponsor must apply for renewal and any necessary modification of its approval in accordance with the customary application procedure for any docket renewal or approval.


(c) *Automatic termination of application.* Any application that remains dormant (no proof of active pursuit of approvals) for a period of three years from date of receipt, shall be automatically terminated without further action of the Commission. Any renewed activity following that date will require submission of a new application.





---

[N] [89 FR 51826, June 20, 2024]




