# § 328.5   Signs for digital deposit-taking channels.

(a) *Scope.* This section governs signage for digital deposit-taking channels, including insured depository institutions' websites and web-based or mobile applications that offer the ability to make deposits electronically and provide access to deposits at insured depository institutions.


(b) *Design.* In general, the “FDIC” in the FDIC official digital sign shall be displayed with a wordmark size of 37.36 × 15.74px, in navy blue (hexadecimal color code #003256), and the “*FDIC-Insured—Backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government”* shall be displayed in regular 400 italic (12.8px) and with black (hexadecimal color code #000000) lettering. The entire FDIC official digital sign shall be displayed in Source Sans Pro Web. If the FDIC official digital sign in these colors would be illegible in a digital-taking channel, due to the color of the background, the entire FDIC official digital sign shall be displayed in white (hexadecimal color code #FFFFFF). The official digital sign required by the provisions of this section shall have the following design:


(c) *Digital symbol.* The “digital symbol” of the Corporation, as used in this subpart, shall be that portion of the FDIC official digital sign consisting of “FDIC” and the one line of smaller type to the right of “FDIC”.


(d) *Display of FDIC official digital sign.* An insured depository institution must clearly, continuously and conspicuously display the FDIC official digital sign specified in paragraph (b) of this section on its digital deposit-taking channels on the following pages or screens:


(1) Initial or homepage of the website or application;


(2) Landing or login pages; and


(3) Pages where the customer may transact with deposits.


(e) *Legibility.* The FDIC official digital sign shall be clearly legible across all insured depository institution deposit-taking channels.


(f) *Clear and conspicuous placement of FDIC official digital sign.* An official digital sign continuously displayed near the top of the relevant page or screen and in close proximity to the insured depository institution's name would be considered clear and conspicuous.


(g) *Display of non-deposit signage.* (1) Continuous Display of Non-deposit signage. If a digital deposit-taking channel offers both access to deposits at an insured depository institution and non-deposit products, the insured depository institution must clearly and conspicuously display signage indicating that the non-deposit products: are not insured by the FDIC; are not deposits; and may lose value. This signage must be displayed continuously on each page relating to non-deposit products. This non-deposit signage may not be displayed in close proximity to the digital sign required by paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) One-Time Notification for Bank Customers Related to Third-Party Non-deposit Products. If a digital deposit-taking channel offers access to non-deposit products from a non-bank third party's online platform, and a logged-in bank customer attempts to access such non-deposit products, the insured depository institution must provide a one-time per web session notification on the insured depository institution's deposit-taking channel before the customer leaves the insured depository institution's digital deposit-taking channel. The notification must be dismissed by an action of the bank customer before initially accessing the third party's online platform and it must clearly, conspicuously indicate that the third party's non-deposit products: are not insured by the FDIC; are not deposits; and may lose value. Nothing in this paragraph shall be read to limit an insured depository institution's ability to include additional disclosures in the notification that may help prevent consumer confusion, including, for example, that the bank customer is leaving the insured depository institution's website.


(h) *Required changes in digital signage.* The Corporation may require any insured depository institution, upon at least thirty (30) days' written notice, to change the wording, color or placement of the FDIC official digital sign and other signs for digital deposit-taking channels when it is deemed necessary for the protection of depositors or others or to ensure consistency with this part's requirement.






