# § 220.101   Evaluation of mental impairments.

(a) *General.* The steps outlined in § 220.100 apply to the evaluation of physical and mental impairments. In addition, in evaluating the severity of a mental impairment(s), the Board will follow a special procedure at each administrative level of review. Following this procedure will assist the Board in—


(1) Identifying additional evidence necessary for the determination of impairment severity;


(2) Considering and evaluating aspects of the mental impairment(s) relevant to the claimant's ability to work; and


(3) Organizing and presenting the findings in a clear, concise, and consistent manner.


(b) *Use of the procedure to record pertinent findings and rate the degree of functional loss.* (1) This procedure requires the Board to record the pertinent signs, symptoms, findings, functional limitations, and effects of treatment contained in the claimant's case record. This will assist the Board in determining if a mental impairment(s) exists. Whether or not a mental impairment(s) exists is decided in the same way the question of a physical impairment is decided, i.e., the evidence must be carefully reviewed and conclusions supported by it. The mental status examination and psychiatric history will ordinarily provide the needed information. (See § 220.27 for further information about what is needed to show an impairment.)


(2) If the Board determines that a mental impairment(s) exists, this procedure then requires the Board to indicate whether certain medical findings which have been found especially relevant to the ability to work are present or absent.


(3) The procedure then requires the Board to rate the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s). Four areas of function considered by the Board as essential to work have been identified, and the degree of functional loss in those areas must be rated on a scale that ranges from no limitation to a level of severity which is incompatible with the ability to perform those work-related functions.


(c) *Use of the procedure to evaluate mental impairments.* Following the rating of the degree of functional loss resulting from the impairment(s), the Board then determines the severity of the mental impairment(s).


(1) If the four areas considered by the Board as essential to work have been rated to indicate a degree of limitation as “none” or “slight” in the first and second area, “never” or “seldom” in the third area, and “never” in the fourth area, the Board can generally conclude that the impairment(s) is not severe, unless the evidence otherwise indicates that there is significant limitation of the claimant's mental ability to do basic work activities (see § 220.102).


(2) If the claimant's mental impairment(s) is severe, the Board must then determine if it is medically disabling using the Board's prior conclusions based on this procedure (i.e., the presence of certain medical findings considered by the Board as especially relevant to a claimant's ability to work and the Board's rating of functional loss resulting from the mental impairment(s)).


(3) If the claimant has a severe impairment(s), but the impairment(s) is not medically disabling, the Board will then do a residual functional capacity assessment for those claimants (employees, widow(er)s, and children) whose applications are based on disability for any regular employment under the Railroad Retirement Act.


(4) At all adjudicative levels, the Board will, in each case, incorporate the pertinent findings and conclusions based on this procedure in its decision rationale. The Board's rationale must show the significant history, including examination, laboratory findings, and functional limitations that the Board considered in reaching conclusions about the severity of the mental impairment(s).



---

[N] [56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63600, Dec. 4, 2009]




