# § 21.5133   Certifications and release of payments.

A veteran or servicemember must be pursuing a program of education in order to receive payment of educational assistance allowance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 32. To ensure that this is the case, the provisions of this section must be met when a veteran or servicemember is seeking such payment.


(a) *General.* VA will pay educational assistance to a veteran or servicemember (other than one pursuing a program of apprenticeship, other on-job training, or a correspondence course; one seeking reimbursement for taking an approved licensing or certification test; or one who qualifies for an advance payment) only after:


(1) The educational institution has certified his or her enrollment as provided in § 21.5200(d) of this part; and


(2) VA has received from the individual a verification of the enrollment. Generally, this verification will be required monthly, resulting in monthly payments.


(b) *Apprenticeship and other on-job training.* VA will pay educational assistance to a veteran pursuing a program of apprenticeship or other on-job training only after—


(1) The training establishment has certified his or her enrollment in the training program as provided in § 21.5200(d); and


(2) VA has received from the training establishment a certification of hours worked. Generally, this certification will be required monthly, resulting in monthly payments.


(c) *Correspondence training.* VA will pay educational assistance to a veteran or servicemember who is pursuing a correspondence course or the correspondence portion of a combined correspondence-residence course only after—


(1) The educational institution has certified his or her enrollment;


(2) VA has received from the veteran or servicemember a certification as to the number of lessons completed and serviced by the educational institution; and


(3) VA has received from the educational institution a certification or an endorsement on the veteran's or servicemember's certificate, as to the number of lessons completed by the veteran or servicemember and serviced by the educational institution. Generally, this certification will be required quarterly, resulting in quarterly payments.



---

[N] [57 FR 38612, Aug. 26, 1992, as amended at 72 FR 16978, Apr. 5, 2007; 85 FR 59191, Sept. 21, 2020]




