# § 217.43   Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) and the gross-up approach.

(a) *General requirements for the SSFA.* To use the SSFA to determine the risk weight for a securitization exposure, a Board-regulated institution must have data that enables it to assign accurately the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section. Data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be the most currently available data; if the contracts governing the underlying exposures of the securitization require payments on a monthly or quarterly basis, the data used to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must be no more than 91 calendar days old. A Board-regulated institution that does not have the appropriate data to assign the parameters described in paragraph (b) of this section must assign a risk weight of 1,250 percent to the exposure. 


(b) *SSFA parameters.* To calculate the risk weight for a securitization exposure using the SSFA, a Board-regulated institution must have accurate information on the following five inputs to the SSFA calculation: 


(1) K_G_ is the weighted-average (with unpaid principal used as the weight for each exposure) total capital requirement of the underlying exposures calculated using this subpart. K_G_ is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one (that is, an average risk weight of 100 percent represents a value of K_G_ equal to 0.08). 


(2) Parameter W is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. Parameter W is the ratio of the sum of the dollar amounts of any underlying exposures of the securitization that meet any of the criteria as set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to the balance, measured in dollars, of underlying exposures: 


(i) Ninety days or more past due; 


(ii) Subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding; 


(iii) In the process of foreclosure; 


(iv) Held as real estate owned; 


(v) Has contractually deferred payments for 90 days or more, other than principal or interest payments deferred on: 


(A) Federally-guaranteed student loans, in accordance with the terms of those guarantee programs; or 


(B) Consumer loans, including non-federally-guaranteed student loans, provided that such payments are deferred pursuant to provisions included in the contract at the time funds are disbursed that provide for period(s) of deferral that are not initiated based on changes in the creditworthiness of the borrower; or 


(vi) Is in default. 


(3) Parameter A is the attachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses will first be allocated to the exposure. Except as provided in § 217.42(i) for n
th-to-default credit derivatives, parameter A equals the ratio of the current dollar amount of underlying exposures that are subordinated to the exposure of the Board-regulated institution to the current dollar amount of underlying exposures. Any reserve account funded by the accumulated cash flows from the underlying exposures that is subordinated to the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure may be included in the calculation of parameter A to the extent that cash is present in the account. Parameter A is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. 


(4) Parameter D is the detachment point for the exposure, which represents the threshold at which credit losses of principal allocated to the exposure would result in a total loss of principal. Except as provided in section 42(i) for n
th-to-default credit derivatives, parameter D equals parameter A plus the ratio of the current dollar amount of the securitization exposures that are *pari passu* with the exposure (that is, have equal seniority with respect to credit risk) to the current dollar amount of the underlying exposures. Parameter D is expressed as a decimal value between zero and one. 


(5) A supervisory calibration parameter, p, is equal to 0.5 for securitization exposures that are not resecuritization exposures and equal to 1.5 for resecuritization exposures. 


(c) *Mechanics of the SSFA.* K_G_ and W are used to calculate K_A_, the augmented value of K_G_, which reflects the observed credit quality of the underlying exposures. K_A_ is defined in paragraph (d) of this section. The values of parameters A and D, relative to K_A_ determine the risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure as described in paragraph (d) of this section. The risk weight assigned to a securitization exposure, or portion of a securitization exposure, as appropriate, is the larger of the risk weight determined in accordance with this paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of this section and a risk weight of 20 percent. 


(1) When the detachment point, parameter D, for a securitization exposure is less than or equal to K_A_, the exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1,250 percent. 


(2) When the attachment point, parameter A, for a securitization exposure is greater than or equal to K_A_, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the risk weight in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. 


(3) When A is less than K_A_ and D is greater than K_A_, the risk weight is a weighted-average of 1,250 percent and 1,250 percent times K_SSFA_ calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purpose of this weighted-average calculation: 


(e) *Gross-up approach*—(1) *Applicability.* A Board-regulated institution that is not subject to subpart F of this part may apply the gross-up approach set forth in this section instead of the SSFA to determine the risk weight of its securitization exposures, provided that it applies the gross-up approach to all of its securitization exposures, except as otherwise provided for certain securitization exposures in §§ 217.44 and 217.45.


(2) To use the gross-up approach, a Board-regulated institution must calculate the following four inputs:


(i) Pro rata share, which is the par value of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure as a percent of the par value of the tranche in which the securitization exposure resides;


(ii) Enhanced amount, which is the par value of tranches that are more senior to the tranche in which the Board-regulated institution's securitization resides;


(iii) Exposure amount of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure calculated under § 217.42(c); and


(iv) Risk weight, which is the weighted-average risk weight of underlying exposures of the securitization as calculated under this subpart.


(3) *Credit equivalent amount.* The credit equivalent amount of a securitization exposure under this section equals the sum of:


(i) The exposure amount of the Board-regulated institution's securitization exposure; and


(ii) The pro rata share multiplied by the enhanced amount, each calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(4) *Risk-weighted assets.* To calculate risk-weighted assets for a securitization exposure under the gross-up approach, a Board-regulated institution must apply the risk weight required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section to the credit equivalent amount calculated in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(f) *Limitations.* Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a Board-regulated institution must assign a risk weight of not less than 20 percent to a securitization exposure.




