# § 180.215   Reporting and record retention requirements.

(a) *Facility records.* A person who requalifies, repairs or rebuilds cylinders must maintain the following records where the requalification is performed: 


(1) Current RIN issuance letter; 


(2) If the RIN has expired and renewal is pending, a copy of the renewal request; 


(3) Copies of notifications to Associate Administrator required under § 107.805 of this chapter; 


(4) Current copies of those portions of this subchapter applicable to its cylinder requalification and marking activities at that location; 


(5) Current copies of all special permits governing exemption cylinders requalified or marked by the requalifier at that location; and 


(6) The information contained in each applicable CGA or ASTM standard incorporated by reference in § 171.7 of this subchapter applicable to the requalifier's activities.


(b) *Requalification records.* Daily records of visual inspection, pressure test, eddy current examination if required, and ultrasonic examination if permitted under a special permit, as applicable, must be maintained by the person who performs the requalification until either the expiration of the requalification period or until the cylinder is again requalified, whichever occurs first. A single date may be used for each test sheet, provided each test on the sheet was conducted on that date. Ditto marks or a solid vertical line may be used to indicate repetition of the preceding entry for the following entries only: Date; actual dimensions; manufacturer's name or symbol, if present; owner's name or symbol, if present; and test operator. Blank spaces may not be used to indicate repetition of a prior entry. A symbol may be used for the actual dimensions if there is a reference chart available at the facility that lists the actual dimensions of every symbol used. The records must include the following information:


(1) *Calibration test records.* For each test to demonstrate calibration, the date; serial number of the calibrated cylinder; calibration test pressure; total, elastic and permanent expansions; and legible identification of test operator. The test operator must be able to demonstrate that the results of the daily calibration verification correspond to the hydrostatic tests performed on that day. The daily verification of calibration(s) may be recorded on the same sheets as, and with, test records for that date, or may be recorded on a separate sheet.


(2) *Pressure test and visual inspection records.* The date of requalification; serial number; DOT-specification or special permit number; marked pressure; actual dimensions; manufacturer's name or symbol, if present; year of manufacture; owner's name or symbol, if present; gas service; result of visual inspection; actual test pressure; total, elastic and permanent expansions; percent permanent expansion; disposition, with reason for any repeated test, rejection or condemnation; and legible identification of test operator. For each cylinder marked pursuant to § 173.302a(b)(5) of this subchapter, the test sheet must indicate the method by which any average or maximum wall stress was computed. Records must be kept for all completed, as well as unsuccessful tests. The entry for a repeated test must indicate the date of the earlier test, if conducted on a different day.


(3) *Wall stress.* Calculations of average and maximum wall stress pursuant to § 173.302a(b)(3) of this subchapter, if performed.


(4) *Calibration certificates.* The most recent certificate of calibration must be maintained for each calibrated cylinder, pressure indicating device, and expansion indicating device.


(c) *Repair, rebuilding or reheat treatment records.* (1) Records covering welding or brazing repairs, rebuilding or reheat treating shall be retained for a minimum of fifteen years by the approved facility. 


(2) A record of rebuilding, in accordance with § 180.211(d), must be completed for each cylinder rebuilt. The record must be clear, legible, and contain the following information: 


(i) Name and address of test facility, date of test report, and name of original manufacturer; 


(ii) Marks stamped on cylinder to include specification number, service pressure, serial number, symbol of manufacturer, inspector's mark, and other marks, if any; 


(iii) Cylinder outside diameter and length in inches; 


(iv) Rebuild process (welded, brazed, type seams, etc.); 


(v) Description of assembly and any attachments replaced (e.g., neckrings, footrings); 


(vi) Chemical analysis of material for the cylinder, including seat and Code No., type of analysis (ladle, check), chemical components (Carbon (C), Phosphorous (P), Sulfur (S), Silicon (Si), Manganese (Mn), Nickel (Ni), Chromium (Cr), Molybdenum (Mo), Copper (Cu), Aluminum (Al), Zinc (Zn)), material manufacturer, name of person performing the analysis, results of physical tests of material for cylinder (yield strength (psi), tensile strength (psi), elongation percentage (inches), reduction in area percentage, weld bend, tensile bend, name of inspector); 


(vii) Results of a test on a cylinder, including test method, test pressure, total expansion, permanent expansion, elastic expansion, percent permanent expansion (permanent expansion may not exceed ten percent (10 percent) of total expansion), and volumetric capacity (volumetric capacity of a rebuilt cylinder must be within ±3 percent of the calculated capacity);


(viii) Each report must include the following certification statement: “I certify that this rebuilt cylinder is accurately represented by the data above and conforms to all of the requirements in Subchapter C of Chapter I of Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.”. The certification must be signed by the rebuild technician and principal, officer, or partner of the rebuild facility.


(3) A record of grinding and ultrasonic examination in conformance with § 180.212(a)(3) must be completed for each cylinder on which grinding is performed. The record must be clear, legible, and contain the following information:


(i) Name and address of the test facility, date of test report, and name or original manufacturer;


(ii) Marks stamped on cylinder to include specification number, service pressure, serial number, symbol of manufacturer, and date of manufacture;


(iii) Cylinder outside diameter and length in inches;


(iv) Detailed map of where the grinding was performed on the cylinder; and


(v) Wall thickness measurements in grind area in conformance with § 180.212(a)(3)(i).



---

[N] [67 FR 51660, Aug. 8, 2002, as amended at 68 FR 24664, May 8, 2003; 70 FR 73166, Dec. 9, 2005; 71 FR 54398, Sept. 14, 2006; 72 FR 55697, Oct. 1, 2007; 85 FR 85436, Dec. 28, 2020]




