# § 264.118   Post-closure plan; amendment of plan.

(a) *Written Plan.* The owner or operator of a hazardous waste disposal unit must have a written post-closure plan. In addition, certain surface impoundments and waste piles from which the owner or operator intends to remove or decontaminate the hazardous wastes at partial or final closure are required by §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) to have contingent post-closure plans. Owners or operators of surface impoundments and waste piles not otherwise required to prepare contingent post-closure plans under §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) must submit a post-closure plan to the Regional Administrator within 90 days from the date that the owner or operator or Regional administrator determines that the hazardous waste management unit must be closed as a landfill, subject to the requirements of §§ 264.117 through 264.120. The plan must be submitted with the permit application, in accordance with § 270.14(b)(13) of this chapter, and approved by the Regional Administrator as part of the permit issuance procedures under part 124 of this chapter. In accordance with § 270.32 of this chapter, the approved post-closure plan will become a condition of any RCRA permit issued.


(b) For each hazardous waste management unit subject to the requirements of this section, the post-closure plan must identify the activities that will be carried on after closure of each disposal unit and the frequency of these activities, and include at least:


(1) A description of the planned monitoring activities and frequencies at which they will be performed to comply with subparts F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part during the post-closure care period; and


(2) A description of the planned maintenance activities, and frequencies at which they will be performed, to ensure:


(i) The integrity of the cap and final cover or other containment systems in accordance with the requirements of subparts F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part; and


(ii) The function of the monitoring equipment in accordance with the requirements of subparts, F, K, L, M, N, and X of this part; and


(3) The name, address, and phone number of the person or office to contact about the hazardous waste disposal unit or facility during the post-closure care period.


(4) For facilities where the Regional Administrator has applied alternative requirements at a regulated unit under §§ 264.90(f), 264.110(c), and/or §§ 264.140(d), either the alternative requirements that apply to the regulated unit, or a reference to the enforceable document containing those requirements.


(c) Until final closure of the facility, a copy of the approved post-closure plan must be furnished to the Regional Administrator upon request, including request by mail. After final closure has been certified, the person or office specified in § 264.118(b)(3) must keep the approved post-closure plan during the remainder of the post-closure period.


(d) *Amendment of plan.* The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in the approved post-closure plan in accordance with the applicable requirements in parts 124 and 270. The written notification or request must include a copy of the amended post-closure plan for review or approval by the Regional Administrator.


(1) The owner or operator may submit a written notification or request to the Regional Administrator for a permit modification to amend the post-closure plan at any time during the active life of the facility or during the post-closure care period.


(2) The owner or operator must submit a written notification of or request for a permit modification to authorize a change in the approved post-closure plan whenever:


(i) Changes in operating plans or facility design affect the approved post-closure plan, or


(ii) There is a change in the expected year of final closure, if applicable, or


(iii) Events which occur during the active life of the facility, including partial and final closures, affect the approved post-closure plan.


(iv) The owner or operator requests the Regional Administrator to apply alternative requirements to a regulated unit under §§ 264.90(f), 264.110(c), and/or § 264.140(d).


(3) The owner or operator must submit a written request for a permit modification at least 60 days prior to the proposed change in facility design or operation, or no later than 60 days after an unexpected event has occurred which has affected the post-closure plan. An owner or operator of a surface impoundment or waste pile that intends to remove all hazardous waste at closure and is not otherwise required to submit a contingent post-closure plan under §§ 264.228(c)(1)(ii) and 264.258(c)(1)(ii) must submit a post-closure plan to the Regional Administrator no later than 90 days after the date that the owner or operator or Regional Administrator determines that the hazardous waste management unit must be closed as a landfill, subject to the requirements of § 264.310. The Regional Administrator will approve, disapprove or modify this plan in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270. In accordance with § 270.32 of this chapter, the approved post-closure plan will become a permit condition.


(4) The Regional Administrator may request modifications to the plan under the conditions described in § 264.118(d)(2). The owner or operator must submit the modified plan no later than 60 days after the Regional Administrator's request, or no later than 90 days if the unit is a surface impoundment or waste pile not previously required to prepare a contingent post-closure plan. Any modifications requested by the Regional Administrator will be approved, disapproved, or modified in accordance with the procedures in parts 124 and 270.



---

[N] [51 FR 16444, May 2, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 46964, Dec. 10, 1987; 53 FR 37935, Sept. 28, 1988; 63 FR 56733, Oct. 22, 1998; 71 FR 40272, July 14, 2006]




