# § 1.1061-5   Section 1061(d) transfers to related persons.

(a) *In general.* If an Owner Taxpayer transfers any API or Distributed API Property, directly or indirectly, to a Section 1061(d) Related Person (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section), the Owner Taxpayer must include in gross income as short-term capital gain, an amount equal to—


(1) The short-term capital gain recognized upon the API transfer without regard to this paragraph (a); and


(2) The lesser of—


(i) The amount of net long-term capital gain recognized by the Owner Taxpayer upon the transfer of such interest; or


(ii) The amount treated as short-term capital gain under paragraph (c) of this section (Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount).


(b) *Transfer.* For purposes of this section, the term *transfer* means a sale or exchange in which gain is recognized by the Owner Taxpayer under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.


(c) *Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount.* To the extent an Owner Taxpayer recognizes long-term capital gain upon a transfer of an API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person, the Owner Taxpayer's Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount is the amount of net long-term capital gain (excluding amounts not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7)) from assets held for three years or less that would have been allocated to the Owner Taxpayer (to the extent attributable to the transferred API) by the partnership if the partnership had sold all of its property in a fully taxable transaction for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such property (taking into account section 7701(g)) immediately prior to the Owner Taxpayer's transfer of the API. If only a portion of an Owner Taxpayer's API is transferred, this paragraph (c) shall apply with respect to the portion of gain attributable to the transferred interest.


(d) *Special rules.* For purposes of this section, the following rules are applicable.


(1) An Owner Taxpayer will be treated as transferring the Owner Taxpayer's share of any Indirect API or Distributed API Property if the Indirect API or Distributed API Property is transferred by the API Holder to a person that is a Section 1061(d) Related Person with respect to the Owner Taxpayer.


(2) The rules set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply upon the transfer of a Passthrough Interest issued by an S corporation or PFIC to the extent the Passthrough Interest is treated as an API.


(e) *Section 1061(d) Related Person.* For purposes of this section, the term Section 1061(d) Related Person means—


(1) A person that is a member of the taxpayer's family within the meaning of section 318(a)(1);


(2) A person that performed a service within the current calendar year or the preceding three calendar years in a Relevant ATB to the API transferred by taxpayer; or


(3) A Passthrough Entity to the extent that a person described in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section owns an interest, directly or indirectly.






(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.


(1) *Example 1: Transfer to child by gift.* A, an individual, performs services in an ATB and has held an API in connection with those services for 10 years. The API has a fair market value of $1,000 and a tax basis of $0, and no debt is associated with the API. A transfers all of the API to A's daughter as a gift. A's daughter is a section 1061(d) Related Person but A's gift is not a transfer as described in paragraph (b) of this section; thus section 1061(d) does not apply to A's gift. However, the API remains an API in the hands of A's daughter under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).


(2) *Example 2: Transfer of an API to a partnership owned by Section 1061(d) Related Persons*—(i) *Facts.* A, B, and C are equal partners in GP, a partnership. GP holds only one asset, an API in PRS1 which is an Indirect API as to each of A, B, and C. Each of A, B, and C provides services in the ATB in connection with which GP was transferred its API in PRS1. A and B contribute their interests in GP to PRS2 in a section 721(a) exchange for interests in PRS2.


(ii) *Application of section 1061(d).* Because the contribution by each of A and B of its interest in GP to PRS2 is an exchange in which no gain is recognized by either A or B, the contribution is not a transfer as described in paragraph (b) of this section; thus section 1061(d) does not apply to A's and B's contribution. However, the API remains an API in the hands of PRS2 under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).


(3) *Example 3: Transfer of an API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person.* A has held an API in GP, a partnership, for four years. A transfers the API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person described in paragraph (e) of this section in exchange for $100 of cash, resulting in A recognizing long-term capital gain of $100. Because this is a transfer described in paragraph (b) of this section, section 1061(d) applies to the transfer of A's API and A must determine its Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount under paragraph (c) of this section. If, immediately prior to A's transfer of the API, the partnership had sold all of its assets in a fully taxable transaction for cash equal to the fair market value of the assets, A's share of the net long-term capital gain (excluding amounts not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7)) from assets held for three years or less would have been $120. Thus, A's Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount is $120. As a result, A's $100 long-term capital gain is recharacterized as short-term capital gain under paragraph (a) of this section. The API remains an API in the hands of the Section 1061(d) Related Person under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).








(g) *Applicability date.* The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50525, June 14, 2024]










