# ยง 21.276   Incarcerated veterans.

(a) *General.* The provisions contained in this section describe the limitations on payment of subsistence allowance and charges for tuition and fees for:


(1) Incarcerated veterans;


(2) Formerly incarcerated veterans in halfway houses; and


(3) Incarcerated and formerly incarcerated veterans in work release programs.


(b) *Definition.* The term *incarcerated veteran* means any veteran incarcerated in a Federal, State, or local prison, jail, or other penal institution for a felony. It does not include any veteran who is pursuing a rehabilitation program under Chapter 31 while residing in a halfway house or participating in a work-release program in connection with such veteran's conviction of a felony.


(c) *Subsistence allowance not paid to an incarcerated veteran.* A subsistence allowance may not be paid to an incarcerated veteran convicted of a felony, but VA may pay all or part of the veteran's tuition and fees.


(d) *Halfway house.* A subsistence allowance may be paid to a veteran pursuing a rehabilitation program while residing in a halfway house as a result of a felony conviction even though all of the veteran's living expenses are paid by a non-VA Federal, State, or local government program.


(e) *Work-release program.* A subsistence allowance may be paid to a veteran in a work-release program as a result of a felony conviction. 


(f) *Services.* VA may provide other appropriate services, including but not limited to medical, reader service, and tutorial assistance necessary for the veteran to pursue his or her rehabilitation program.


(g) *Payment of allowance at the rates paid under Chapter 30.* A veteran incarcerated for a felony conviction or a veteran in a halfway house or work-release program who elects payment at the educational assistance rate paid under Chapter 30 shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of law applicable to other incarcerated veterans training under Chapter 30.


(h) *Apportionment.* Apportionment of subsistence allowance which began before October 17, 1980 made to dependents of an incarcerated veteran convicted of a felony may be continued.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 22807, June 23, 1986; 54 FR 4284, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992]




