# § 561.504   Transactions related to closing a correspondent account or payable-through account.

(a) During the 10-day period beginning on the effective date of the prohibition in § 561.201(c), § 561.203(c)(2), § 561.204(c)(2), § 561.205(a), or § 561.205(c) on the maintaining of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the List of Foreign Financial Institutions Subject to Correspondent Account or Payable-Through Account Sanctions (CAPTA List), which is maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's website (*www.treasury.gov/ofac*), U.S. financial institutions that maintain correspondent accounts or payable-through accounts for the foreign financial institution are authorized to:


(1) Process only those transactions through the account, or permit the foreign financial institution to execute only those transactions through the account, that are for the purpose of, and necessary for, closing the account; and


(2) Transfer the funds remaining in the correspondent account or the payable-through account to an account of the foreign financial institution located outside of the United States and close the correspondent account or the payable-through account.


(b) A report must be filed with the Office of Foreign Assets Control within 30 days of the closure of an account, providing full details on the closing of each correspondent account or payable-through account maintained by a U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, maintained on the Office of Foreign Assets Control's Web site (*www.treasury.gov/ofac*). Such report must include complete information on the closing of the account and on all transactions processed or executed through the account pursuant to this section, including the account outside of the United States to which funds remaining in the account were transferred. Reports should be addressed to the attention of the Compliance Division, Office of Foreign Assets Control, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20220.


(c) Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis to authorize transactions by a U.S. financial institution with respect to a correspondent account or a payable-through account maintained by the U.S. financial institution for a foreign financial institution whose name is added to the CAPTA List, that are outside the scope of the transactions authorized in paragraph (a) of this section and/or that occur beyond the 10-day period authorized in that paragraph. License applications should be filed in conformance with § 501.801 of the Reporting, Procedures and Penalties Regulations, 31 CFR part 501.


(d) Nothing in this section authorizes the opening of a correspondent account or a payable-through account for a foreign financial institution whose name appears on the CAPTA List.



---

[N] [77 FR 11726, Feb. 27, 2012, as amended at 78 FR 16409, Mar. 15, 2013; 84 FR 9457, Mar. 15, 2019; 84 FR 38548, Aug. 7, 2019; 89 FR 15742, Mar. 5, 2024]




