# ยง 2610.101   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504, as amended.


(b) *Adjudicative officer* means the official, without regard to whether the official is designated as a hearing examiner, administrative law judge, administrative judge, or otherwise, who presided at the adversary adjudication.


(c) *Adversary adjudication* means:


(1) An adjudication under 5 U.S.C. 554 in which the position of the United States is represented by counsel or otherwise, but not including an adjudication for the purpose of establishing or fixing a rate or for the purpose of granting or renewing a license; and


(2) An appeal of a decision of a contracting officer made pursuant to section 6 of the Contracts Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605) as provided in section 8 of that statute (41 U.S.C. 607).


(d) *Agency counsel* means:


(1) When the position of the Office is being represented, the attorney or attorneys designated by the Office's General Counsel to represent the Office in a proceeding covered by this part; and


(2) When the position of another agency of the United States is being represented, the representative or representatives as designated by that agency.


(e) *Office* means the United States Office of Government Ethics, or the organizational unit within the Office responsible for conducting an adversary adjudication subject to this part.


(f) *Proceeding* means an adversary adjudication as defined above.


(g) *Director* means the Director of the United States Office of Government Ethics.




