# ยง 102-40.55   Do we report all excess personal property with special handling requirements to GSA?

No. Because of their characteristics, certain items are not subject to the usual disposal procedures. You are not required to report to GSA excess personal property with special handling requirements in any of the following categories listed below.


(a) *Extremely hazardous personal property.* You must dispose of extremely hazardous personal property not reported to GSA in accordance with applicable demilitarization requirements, EPA regulations, state and local laws or regulations, and other Federal laws, regulations or guidelines. However, if time and circumstances permit, this material may be reported to GSA to optimize use of this already-acquired material. When an item that is determined to be extremely hazardous property becomes excess, the holding agency should notify the appropriate GSA regional personal property office, which will determine if the property should be reported using Report of Excess Personal Property, Standard Form (SF) 120 or another method. At a minimum, you must identify the item, and describe the actual or potential hazard(s) associated with the handling, storage, or use of the item(s). This GSA regional office will determine the utilization, donation, sales or other disposal requirements, and provide appropriate guidance to the holding agency.


(b) *Hazardous wastes.* You must dispose of hazardous wastes not reported to GSA in accordance with applicable demilitarization requirements, EPA regulations, state and local laws or regulations, and other Federal laws, regulations or guidelines.


(c) *Perishables.* You may dispose of perishables with no further utility by abandonment or destruction when it is not detrimental to public health or safety (see the abandonment/destruction provisions in ยง 102-40.125 and in part 102-36 of this subchapter). Although there is no requirement to report perishables to GSA if their spoilage is imminent (see ยง 102-36.220), perishables that have a longer time before spoilage and are clearly able to be used may be reported to GSA in accordance with part 102-36. When reporting perishables to GSA, you should annotate the Report for Excess Personal Property, SF 120 or electronic reporting form to show whether there is a specific expiration date for the perishable item and whether such date is an original or extended date.


(d) *EPA research and cleanup materials.* The EPA, under its independent authority, may transfer accountability for hazardous materials deemed by EPA to be research materials to Federal, state, and local agencies, research institutions, or commercial businesses to conduct research or to clean-up a contaminated site.




