# ยง 301.20   Definitions.

*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.


*Auction* means the competitive bidding process through which licenses are assigned by the Commission under section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)).


*Commission* means the Federal Communications Commission.


*Dispute Resolution Board* means any board established pursuant to section 113(i) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(i)) and subpart C of this part.


*Eligible Federal Entity* means any Federal Entity that:


(1) Operates a U.S. Government station; and


(2) That incurs relocation costs or sharing costs because of planning for an auction of eligible spectrum frequencies or the reallocation of eligible spectrum frequencies from Federal use to exclusive non-Federal use or to shared use.


*Eligible frequencies* means any band of frequencies reallocated from Federal use to non-Federal use or to shared use after January 1, 2003, that is assigned by auction.


*Federal Entity* means any department, agency, or other instrumentality of the Federal Government that utilizes a Government station license obtained under section 305 of the 1934 Act (47 U.S.C. 305). [47 U.S.C. 923(l)]


*Non-Federal user* means a Commission licensee authorized to use Eligible Frequencies or a winning bidder in a Commission auction for Eligible Frequencies that has fulfilled the Commission's requirements for filing a long-form license application and remitting its final bid payment.


*NTIA* means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.


*NTIA Manual* means the Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management issued by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information and incorporated by reference in ยง 300.1 of this chapter (47 CFR 300.1).


*OMB* means the Office of Management and Budget.


*Spectrum Pipeline Plan* means a plan submitted by a Federal Entity pursuant to section 118(g)(2)(E)(i) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 928(g)(2)(E)(i)).


*Technical Panel* means the panel established by section 113(h)(3)(A) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(h)(3)(A)) and governed by subpart B of this part.


*Transition Plan* means the plan submitted by a Federal Entity pursuant to section 113(h)(1) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(h)(1).



---

[N] [78 FR 5315, Jan. 25, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 3338, Jan. 21, 2016]




