# § 279.20   Applicability.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, this subpart applies to all used oil generators. A used oil generator is any person, by site, whose act or process produces used oil or whose act first causes used oil to become subject to regulation.


(1) *Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil generators.* Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil generators are not subject to regulation under this part.


(2) *Vessels.* Vessels at sea or at port are not subject to this subpart. For purposes of this subpart, used oil produced on vessels from normal shipboard operations is considered to be generated at the time it is transported ashore. The owner or operator of the vessel and the person(s) removing or accepting used oil from the vessel are co-generators of the used oil and are both responsible for managing the waste in compliance with this subpart once the used oil is transported ashore. The co-genenerators may decide among them which party will fulfill the requirements of this subpart.


(3) *Diesel fuel.* Mixtures of used oil and diesel fuel mixed by the generator of the used oil for use in the generator's own vehicles are not subject to this part once the used oil and diesel fuel have been mixed. Prior to mixing, the used oil fuel is subject to the requirements of this subpart.


(4) *Farmers.* Farmers who generate an average of 25 gallons per month or less of used oil from vehicles or machinery used on the farm in a calendar year are not subject to the requirements of this part.


(b) *Other applicable provisions.* Used oil generators who conduct the following activities are subject to the requirements of other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section:


(1) Generators who transport used oil, except under the self-transport provisions of § 279.24 (a) and (b), must also comply with subpart E of this part.


(2) (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, generators who process or re-refine used oil must also comply with subpart F of this part. 


(ii) Generators who perform the following activities are not processors provided that the used oil is generated on-site and is not being sent off-site to a burner of on- or off-specification used oil fuel. 


(A) Filtering, cleaning, or otherwise reconditioning used oil before returning it for reuse by the generator; 


(B) Separating used oil from wastewater generated on-site to make the wastewater acceptable for discharge or reuse pursuant to section 402 or section 307(b) of the Clean Water Act or other applicable Federal or state regulations governing the management or discharge of wastewaters; 


(C) Using oil mist collectors to remove small droplets of used oil from in-plant air to make plant air suitable for continued recirculation; 


(D) Draining or otherwise removing used oil from materials containing or otherwise contaminated with used oil in order to remove excessive oil to the extent possible pursuant to § 279.10(c); or 


(E) Filtering, separating or otherwise reconditioning used oil before burning it in a space heater pursuant to § 279.23.


(3) Generators who burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery, except under the on-site space heater provisions of § 279.23, must also comply with subpart G of this part.


(4) Generators who direct shipments of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with subpart H of this part.


(5) Generators who dispose of used oil, including the use of used oil as a dust suppressant, must also comply with subpart I of this part.



---

[N] [57 FR 41612, Sept. 10, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10560, Mar. 4, 1994]




