# ยง 680.600   What priority must be given to low-income adults and public assistance recipients and individuals who are basic skills deficient served with adult funds under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act?

(a) WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E) states that priority for individualized career services (*see* ยง 678.430(b) of this chapter) and training services funded with title I adult funds must be given to recipients of public assistance, other low-income individuals, and individuals who are basic skills deficient (as defined in WIOA sec. 3(5)(B)) in the local area.


(b) States and local areas must establish criteria by which the one-stop center will apply the priority under WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E). Such criteria may include the availability of other funds for providing employment and training-related services in the local area, the needs of the specific groups within the local area, and other appropriate factors.


(c) The priority established under paragraph (a) of this section does not necessarily mean that these services only may be provided to recipients of public assistance, other low-income individuals, and individuals who are basic skills deficient. The Local WDB and the Governor may establish a process that also gives priority to other individuals eligible to receive such services, provided that it is consistent with priority of service for veterans (*see* ยง 680.650) and the priority provisions of WIOA sec. 134(c)(3)(E), discussed above in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.




