# § 17.11   Meaning of terms.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms have the meanings given in this section. Words in the plural form include the singular, and vice versa, and words indicating the masculine gender include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not listed which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by TTB Order 1135.17, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 17, Drawback on Taxpaid Distilled Spirits Used in Manufacturing Nonbeverage Products.


*Approved,* or *approved for drawback.* When used with reference to products and their formulas, this term means that drawback may be claimed on eligible spirits used in such products in accordance with this part.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Distilled spirits,* or *spirits.* That substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, spirits, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced).


*Effective tax rate.* The net tax rate, after reduction for any credit allowable under 26 U.S.C. 5010 for wine and flavor content, at which the tax imposed on distilled spirits by 26 U.S.C. 5001 or 7652 is paid or determined. For distilled spirits with no wine or flavors content, the effective tax rate equals the rate of tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. 5001 or 7652.


*Eligible,* or *eligible for drawback.* When used with reference to spirits, this term designates taxpaid spirits which have not yet been used in nonbeverage products.


*Filed.* Subject to the provisions of §§ 70.305 and 70.306 of this chapter, a claim for drawback or other document or payment submitted under this part is generally considered to have been “filed” when it is received by the office of the proper Government official; but if an item is mailed timely with postage prepaid, then the United States postmark date is treated as the date of filing.


*Food products.* Includes food adjuncts, such as preservatives, emulsifying agents, and food colorings, which are manufactured and used, or sold for use, in food.


*Intermediate products.* Products to which all three of the following conditions apply: they are made with taxpaid distilled spirits, they have been disapproved for drawback, and they are made by the manufacturer exclusively for its own use in the manufacture of nonbeverage products approved for drawback. However, ingredients treated as unfinished nonbeverage products under § 17.127 are not considered to be intermediate products.


*Medicines.* Includes laboratory stains and reagents for use in medical diagnostic procedures.


*Month.* A calendar month.


*Nonbeverage products.* Medicines, medicinal preparations, food products, flavors, flavoring extracts, or perfume, which are manufactured using taxpaid distilled spirits, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.


*Person.* An individual, trust, estate, partnership, association, company, or corporation.


*Proof gallon.* A gallon of liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, which contains 50 percent by volume of ethyl alcohol having a specific gravity of 0.7939 at 60 degrees Fahrenheit (referred to water at 60 degrees Fahrenheit as unity), or the alcoholic equivalent thereof.


*Quarter.* A 3-month period beginning January 1, April 1, July 1, or October 1.


*Recovered spirits.* Taxpaid spirits that have been salvaged, after use in the manufacture of a product or ingredient, so that the spirits are reusable.


*Subject to drawback.* This term is used with reference to spirits. Eligible spirits become “subject to drawback” when they are used in the manufacture of a nonbeverage product. When spirits have become “subject to drawback,” they may be included in the manufacturer's claim for drawback of tax covering the period in which they were first used.


*Tax year.* The period from July l of one calendar year through June 30 of the following year.


*Taxpaid.* When used with respect to distilled spirits, this term shall mean that all taxes imposed on such spirits by 26 U.S.C. 5001 or 7652 have been determined or paid as provided by law.


*This chapter.* Chapter I of title 27 of the Code of Federal Regulations.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-379, 61 FR 31412, June 20, 1996, as amended by T.D. ATF-436, 66 FR 5470, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16926, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D. TTB-79, 74 FR 37402, July 28, 2009]




