# § 30.101   What definitions apply to terms in this part?

*Act* means the *Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965,* as amended by the *Every Student Succeeds Act,* Public Law 114-95, enacted December 10, 2015.


*Agency Plan* means a BIE document that will provide Indian Tribes, parents, and stakeholders with quality, transparent information about how standards, assessments, and an accountability system will be implemented at a BIE-funded school.


*BIE-funded school(s)* means a school funded by the Bureau of Indian Education and includes Bureau-operated schools and tribally controlled schools.


*Bureau* or *BIE* means the Bureau of Indian Education.


*Bureau-operated school* means a school operated by the Bureau of Indian Education.


*Department* means the Department of the Interior.


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Education.


*English learner* means an individual:


(1) Who is aged three (3) through twenty-one (21);


(2) Who is enrolled or preparing to enroll in an elementary school or secondary school;


(3)(i) Who was not born in the United States or whose native language is a language other than English;


(ii)(A) Who is a Native American or Alaska Native, or a native resident of the outlying areas; and


(B) Who comes from an environment where a language other than English has had a significant impact on the individual's level of English language proficiency; or


(iii) Who is migratory, whose native language is a language other than English, and who comes from an environment where a language other than English is dominant; and


(4) Whose difficulties in speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language may be sufficient to deny the individual;


(i) The ability to meet the challenging academic standards;


(ii) The ability to successfully achieve in classrooms where the language of instruction is English; or


(iii) The opportunity to participate fully in society.


(5) This definition is not intended to affect the right to use Native American language as a medium of instruction.


*Foster care* means 24-hour substitute care for children placed away from their parents and for whom the agency under title IV-E of the Social Security Act has placement and care responsibility. This includes, but is not limited to, placements in foster family homes, foster homes of relatives, group homes, emergency shelters, residential facilities, child care institutions, and pre-adoptive homes. A child is in foster care in accordance with this definition regardless of whether the foster care facility is licensed and payments are made by the State, tribal, or local agency for the care of the child, whether adoption subsidy payments are being made prior to the finalization of an adoption, or whether there is Federal matching of any payments that are made.


*Native American language* means the historical, traditional languages spoken by members of federally recognized Indian Tribes, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(20).


*Peer review* means, for purposes of this part, the process through which an entity demonstrates the technical soundness of an assessment system, including its validity and reliability for the purposes for which the assessments are intended.


*Proposal for alternative requirements* means a proposal submitted by a tribal governing body or school board for requirements, in whole or in part, alternative to the ones adopted by the Secretary for standards, assessments, or an accountability system at BIE-funded schools except that an alternative proposal for a Bureau-operated school does not include any actions that would affect BIE's authority over inherently Federal functions as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(12).


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or a designated representative.


*School board* means, with respect to waiver and submission of alternative proposals for a BIE-funded school, either an “agency school board' as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(1), or a “local school board” as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(14).


*School year* means the academic school year as described by a school in the BIE's student information system.


*Subgroup of students* means:


(1) Economically disadvantaged students;


(2) Students from major racial and ethnic groups;


(3) Children with disabilities; and


(4) English learners.


*Technical assistance* means with regard to:


(1) Comprehensive or targeted support and improvement or additional targeted support, subject to the availability of appropriations, assistance from the BIE to address issues impacting a school's or one or more subgroups within a school's ability to meet the BIE's academic goals and indicators developed or implemented in accordance with this part, including assistance to extend technical capabilities and training opportunities;


(2) Proposals for alternative requirements, technical assistance means, subject to the availability of appropriations, assistance from the BIE and the Department of Education in the development of alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system in part or in whole, including assistance in understanding what options may be available to enhance the exercise of sovereignty in education and address the unique circumstances and needs of BIE-funded schools and the students served at such schools.


(3) English language proficiency assessments and alternate English language proficiency assessments, assistance including training teachers on how to administer such assessments.


*Tribal consultation* means consultation conducted in accordance with the tribal consultation policy of the Department of the Interior.


*Tribal governing body* means with respect to waiver and submission of alternative proposals for:


(1) Tribally controlled schools, the entity authorized under applicable tribal law to waive the Secretary's requirements and propose alternative requirements; and


(2) A BIE-operated school, the recognized governing body of the Indian Tribe involved that represents at least ninety (90) percent of the students served by such school.


*Tribally controlled school* means, for the purposes of this part, a school operated under a Public Law 93-638 contract or Public Law 100-297 grant that is:


(1) Operated by an Indian Tribe or a tribal organization, enrolling students in Kindergarten through grade twelve (12) of schools that may have varying structure, including a preschool;


(2) Not a local education agency as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2511(5); and


(3) Not directly administered by the Bureau of Indian Education.


*Waiver* means the exercise of authority by a tribal governing body or school board for a BIE-funded school to elect to implement requirements, in part or in whole, alternative to the ones adopted by the Secretary pursuant to this part at schools that are under the tribal governing body's or school board's jurisdiction following approval of the proposal for alternative requirements by the Secretary and the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 8204 of the Act, except that a tribal governing body's decision to exercise waiver authority under this part takes priority over a school board decision to exercise waiver authority under this part.




