# § 890.1614   Other administrative provisions.

(a) *Correction of errors.* (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the employing office or OPM may make prospective or retroactive corrections of administrative errors at any time. Retroactive corrections may not apply retroactively beyond the initial contract year.


(2) OPM may order or make, as applicable, a correction of an administrative error upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that it would be against equity and good conscience not to do so.


(3) OPM may make retroactive correction of enrollee enrollment code errors if the enrollee reports the error by the end of the pay period following the one in which they received the first written documentation (*i.e.,* pay statement or enrollment change confirmation) indicating the error.


(4) OPM may order the termination of an enrollment in any comprehensive medical plan described in 5 U.S.C. 8903(4) and permit the individual to enroll in another PSHB plan for purposes of this subpart, upon a showing satisfactory to OPM that the furnishing of adequate medical care is jeopardized by a seriously impaired relationship between a patient and the comprehensive medical plan's affiliated health care providers.


(5) Retroactive corrections are subject to withholdings and contributions under the provisions of §§ 890.502 and 890.1613.


(b) *Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries.* Carrier entitlement to pursue subrogation and reimbursement recoveries must follow the requirements of § 890.106.


(c) *Enrollment reconciliation.* (1) OPM and each PSHB Carrier must, at OPM's direction and in the manner requested by OPM, reconcile PSHB plan enrollment records, including with a list of the Postal Service Medicare covered annuitants and their Medicare covered members of family that satisfy the Medicare enrollment requirements at § 890.1604.


(2) Any Postal Service Medicare covered annuitant or a Medicare covered member of family of such annuitant that is found to be enrolled or covered under a PSHB plan without satisfying the Medicare enrollment requirements at § 890.1604 shall be disenrolled or removed pursuant to § 890.1608.


(d) *Information about PSHB Program enrollment requirements.* OPM shall provide timely information about PSHB Program enrollment requirements to the United States Postal Service to disseminate to Postal Service employees, Postal Service annuitants, and their eligible family members. Any requests for more information should be directed, in writing, to the United States Postal Service.


(e) *All other provisions.* Other requirements of this part not referenced within this subpart shall be interpreted to apply to the PSHB Program consistent with definitions and deemed references, unless it conflicts with this subpart, as determined by the Director.


(f) *Conflicts.* In the event of a conflict between a provision of this subpart and a provision in this part, as determined by the Director, this subpart will supersede.



---

[N] [88 FR 20403, Apr. 6, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 85031, Oct. 24, 2024]






