# § 6.84   Point of sale advertising materials and consumer advertising specialties.

(a) *General.* The act by an industry member of giving or selling point of sale advertising materials and consumer advertising specialties to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act provided that the conditions prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section are met.


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Point of sale advertising materials* are items designed to be used within a retail establishment to attract consumer attention to the products of the industry member. Such materials include, but are not limited to: posters, placards, designs, inside signs (electric, mechanical or otherwise), window decorations, trays, coasters, mats, menu cards, meal checks, paper napkins, foam scrapers, back bar mats, thermometers, clocks, calendars, and alcoholic beverage lists or menus.


(2) *Consumer advertising specialties* are items that are designed to be carried away by the consumer, such as trading stamps, nonalcoholic mixers, pouring racks, ash trays, bottle or can openers, cork screws, shopping bags, matches, printed recipes, pamphlets, cards, leaflets, blotters, post cards, pencils, shirts, caps, and visors.


(c) *Conditions and limitations.* (1) All point of sale advertising materials and consumer advertising specialties must bear conspicuous and substantial advertising matter about the product or the industry member which is permanently inscribed or securely affixed. The name and address of the retailer may appear on the point of sale advertising materials.


(2) The industry member may not directly or indirectly pay or credit the retailer for using or distributing these materials or for any expense incidental to their use.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-364, 60 FR 20423, Apr. 26, 1995]




