# ยง 291.101   What definitions apply to this part?

As used in this part:


*Accessory* means a platform, a major subsea manifold, or similar subsea structure attached to a right-of-way (ROW) pipeline to support pump stations, compressors, manifolds, *etc.* The site used for an accessory is part of the pipeline ROW grant.


*Appurtenance* means equipment, device, apparatus, or other object attached to a horizontal component or riser. Examples include anodes, valves, flanges, fittings, umbilicals, subsea manifolds, templates, pipeline end modules (PLEMs), pipeline end terminals (PLETs), anode sleds, other sleds, and jumpers (other than jumpers connecting subsea wells to manifolds).


*FERC pipeline* means any pipeline within the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. 717-717z, or the Interstate Commerce Act, 42 U.S.C. 7172(a) and (b).


*Grantee* means any person to whom BSEE has issued an oil or gas pipeline permit, license, easement, right-of-way, or other grant of authority for transportation on or across the OCS under 30 CFR part 250, subpart J, or 43 U.S.C. 1337(p), and any person who has an assignment of a permit, license, easement, right-of-way or other grant of authority, or who has an assignment of any rights subject to any of those grants of authority under 30 CFR part 250, subpart J or 43 U.S.C. 1337(p).


*IBLA* means the Interior Board of Land Appeals.


*OCSLA pipeline* means any oil or gas pipeline for which BSEE has issued a permit, license, easement, right-of-way, or other grant of authority.


*Outer Continental Shelf* means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301) and of which the subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control.


*Party* means any person who files a complaint, any person who files an answer, and BSEE.


*Person* means an individual, corporation, government entity, partnership, association (including a trust or limited liability company), consortium, or joint venture (when established as a separate entity).


*Pipeline* is the piping, risers, accessories and appurtenances installed for transportation of oil and gas.


*Serve* means personally delivering a document to a person, or sending a document by U.S. mail or private delivery services that provide proof of delivery (such as return receipt requested) to a person.


*Shipper* means a person who contracts or wants to contract with a grantee or transporter to transport oil or gas through the grantee's or transporter's pipeline.


*Transportation* means, for purposes of this part only, the movement of oil or gas through an OCSLA pipeline.


*Transporter* means, for purposes of this part only, any person who owns or operates an OCSLA oil or gas pipeline.




