# ยง 54.424   Emergency communications support for survivors.

(a) *Confirmation of subscriber eligibility.* All eligible telecommunications carriers must implement policies and procedures for ensuring that subscribers receiving emergency communications support from the Lifeline program are eligible to receive such support. An eligible telecommunications carrier must not seek reimbursement for providing Lifeline service to a subscriber, based on that subscriber's eligibility to receive emergency communications support, unless the carrier has received from the National Verifier:


(1) Notice that the prospective subscriber meets the eligibility criteria set forth in ยง 54.409(a)(3).


(2) A copy of the subscriber's certification that complies with the requirements set forth in ยง 54.410(d).


(3) An eligible telecommunications carrier must securely retain all information and documentation provided by the National Verifier or received from the survivor to document their line separation request as required by ยง 54.417.


(b) *Emergency communications support duration.* Qualified survivors shall be eligible to receive emergency communications support for a total of no more than six months. The Administrator will inform eligible telecommunications carriers when participating survivors have reached their limit of allowable emergency communications support. A survivor may seek and receive further emergency communications support if that request is related to a new line separation request and a showing of financial hardship completed by the survivor and confirmed by the National Verifier.







---

[N] [88 FR 84447, Dec. 5, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 70120, Aug. 29, 2024]








