# ยง 1006.345   Labor standards.

(a) *Davis-Bacon wage rates.* (1) As described in section 805(b) of the Act, contracts and agreements for assistance, sale or lease under this part must require prevailing wage rates determined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-5) to be paid to laborers and mechanics employed in the development of affordable housing. 


(2) When NHHBG assistance is only used to assist homebuyers to acquire single family housing, the Davis-Bacon wage rates apply to the construction of the housing if there is a written agreement with the owner or developer of the housing that NHHBG assistance will be used to assist homebuyers to buy the housing. 


(3) Prime contracts not in excess of $2000 are exempt from Davis-Bacon wage rates. 


(b) *HUD-determined wage rates.* Section 805(b) of the Act also mandates that contracts and agreements for assistance, sale or lease under the Act require that prevailing wages determined or adopted (subsequent to a determination under applicable State or local law) by HUD shall be paid to maintenance laborers and mechanics employed in the operation, and to architects, technical engineers, draftsmen and technicians employed in the development, of affordable housing. 


(c) *Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act.* Contracts in excess of $100,000 to which Davis-Bacon or HUD-determined wage rates apply are subject by law to the overtime provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 327). 


(d) *Volunteers.* The requirements in 24 CFR part 70 concerning exemptions for the use of volunteers on projects subject to Davis-Bacon and HUD-determined wage rates are applicable. 


(e) *Other laws and issuances.* The DHHL, contractors, subcontractors, and other participants must comply with regulations issued under the labor standards provisions cited in this section, and other applicable Federal laws and regulations pertaining to labor standards. 










