# ยง 127.11   Past violations.

(a) *Presumption of denial.* Pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, licenses or other approvals may not be granted to persons who have been convicted of violating any of the U.S. criminal statutes enumerated in ยง 120.6 of this subchapter or who are ineligible to receive any export licenses from any agency of the U.S. Government, subject to a narrowly defined statutory exception. This provision establishes a presumption of denial for licenses or other approvals involving such persons. This presumption is applied by the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls to all persons convicted or deemed ineligible in this manner since the effective date of the Arms Export Control Act (Public Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 729) (June 30, 1976).


(b) *Policy.* An exception to the policy of the Department of State to deny applications for licenses or other approvals that involve persons described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be considered unless there are extraordinary circumstances surrounding the conviction or ineligibility to export, and only if the applicant demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs, that the applicant has taken appropriate steps to mitigate any law enforcement and other legitimate concerns, and to deal with the causes that resulted in the conviction, ineligibility, or debarment. Any person described in paragraph (a) of this section who wishes to request consideration of any application must explain, in a letter to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls the reasons why the application should be considered. If the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs concludes that the application and written explanation have sufficient merit, the Assistant Secretary shall consult with the Office of the Legal Adviser and the Department of the Treasury regarding law enforcement concerns, and may also request the views of other departments, including the Department of Justice. If the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls does grant the license or other approval, subsequent applications from the same person need not repeat the information previously provided but should instead refer to the favorable decision.


(c) *Debarred persons.* Persons debarred pursuant to ยง 127.7(b) (statutory debarment) may not utilize the procedures provided by paragraph (b) of this section while the statutory debarment is in force. Such persons may utilize only the procedures provided by ยง 127.7(d).



---

[N] [71 FR 20550, Apr. 21, 2006, as amended at 79 FR 8088, Feb. 11, 2014; 81 FR 87430, Dec. 5, 2016; 87 FR 16425, Mar. 23, 2022]




