# ยง 1037.120   Emission-related warranty requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new vehicle, including all parts of its emission control system, meets two conditions:


(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.


(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that cause the vehicle to fail to conform to the requirements of this part during the applicable warranty period.


(b) *Warranty period.* (1) Your emission-related warranty must be valid for at least:


(i) 5 years or 50,000 miles for Light HDV (except tires).


(ii) 5 years or 100,000 miles for Medium HDV and Heavy HDV (except tires).


(iii) 2 years or 24,000 miles for tires.


(2) You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the vehicle may not be shorter than any basic mechanical warranty you provide to that owner without charge for the vehicle. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any warranty you provide to that owner without charge for that component. This means that your warranty for a given vehicle may not treat emission-related and nonemission-related defects differently for any component. The warranty period begins when the vehicle is placed into service.


(c) *Components covered.* The emission-related warranty covers tires, automatic tire inflation systems, tire pressure monitoring systems, vehicle speed limiters, idle-reduction systems, devices added to the vehicle to improve aerodynamic performance (not including standard components such as hoods or mirrors even if they have been optimized for aerodynamics) to the extent such emission-related components are included in your application for certification. The emission-related warranty similarly covers fuel cell stacks, RESS, and other components used with hybrid systems, battery electric vehicles, and fuel cell electric vehicles. The emission-related warranty also covers other added emission-related components to the extent they are included in your application for certification, and any other components whose failure would increase a vehicle's CO_2_ emissions. The emission-related warranty covers all components whose failure would increase a vehicle's emissions of air conditioning refrigerants (for vehicles subject to air conditioning leakage standards), and it covers all components whose failure would increase a vehicle's evaporative and refueling emissions (for vehicles subject to evaporative and refueling emission standards). The emission-related warranty covers components that are part of your certified configuration even if another company produces the component.


(d) *Limited applicability.* You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, as described in 40 CFR 1068.115. For example, it may be appropriate to require the seals on automatic tire inflation systems to be replaced during the warranty period.


(e) *Owners manual.* Describe in the owners manual the emission-related warranty provisions from this section that apply to the vehicle.



---

[N] [81 FR 74048, Oct. 25, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 34460, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4637, Jan. 24, 2023; 89 FR 29772, Apr. 22, 2024]




