# ยง 1039.515   What are the test procedures related to not-to-exceed standards?

(a) *General provisions.* The provisions in 40 CFR 86.1370 apply for determining whether an engine meets the not-to-exceed emission standards in ยง 1039.101(e), except as noted in this section. Interpret references to vehicles and vehicle operation to mean equipment and equipment operation.


(b) *Special PM zone.* For engines certified to a PM standard or FEL above 0.07 g/kW-hr, a modified NTE control area applies for PM emissions only. The speeds and loads to be excluded are determined based on speeds B and C, determined according to the provisions of 40 CFR 86.1360-2007(c). One of the following provisions applies:


(1) If the C speed is below 2400 rpm, exclude the speed and load points to the right of or below the line formed by connecting the following two points on a plot of speed-vs.-power:


(i) 30% of maximum power at the B speed; however, use the power value corresponding to the engine operation at 30% of maximum torque at the B speed if this is greater than 30% of maximum power at the B speed.


(ii) 70% of maximum power at 100% speed.


(2) If the C speed is at or above 2400 rpm, exclude the speed and load points to the right of the line formed by connecting the two points in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section (the 30% and 50% torque/power points) and below the line formed by connecting the two points in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section (the 50% and 70% torque/power points). The 30%, 50%, and 70% torque/power points are defined as follows:


(i) 30% of maximum power at the B speed; however, use the power value corresponding to the engine operation at 30% of maximum torque at the B speed if this is greater than 30% of maximum power at the B speed.


(ii) 50% of maximum power at 2400 rpm.


(iii) 70% of maximum power at 100% speed. 



---

[N] [69 FR 39213, June 29, 2004, as amended at 81 FR 74137, Oct. 25, 2016]




