# ยง 707.1   Authority, purpose, coverage and effect on State laws.

(a) *Authority.* This regulation is issued by the National Credit Union Administration to implement the Truth in Savings Act of 1991 (TISA), contained in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, 12 U.S.C. 3201 *et seq.,* Pub. L. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236. Information collection requirements in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and have been assigned OMB No. 3133-0134. 


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to enable credit union members and potential members to make informed decisions about accounts at credit unions. This part requires credit unions to provide disclosures so that members and potential members can make meaningful comparisons among credit unions and depository institutions. 


(c) *Coverage.* This part applies to all credit unions whose accounts are either insured by, or eligible to be insured by, the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, except for any credit union that has been designated as a corporate credit union by the National Credit Union Administration and any credit union that has $2 million or less in assets, after subtracting any nonmember deposits, and is determined to be nonautomated by the National Credit Union Administration. In addition, the advertising rules in ยง 707.8 apply to any person who advertises an account offered by a credit union, including any person who solicits any amount from any other person for placement in a credit union. 


(d) *Effect on state laws.* State law requirements that are inconsistent with the requirements of the TISA and this part are preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. 



---

[N] [58 FR 50445, Sept. 27, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 68129, Dec. 27, 1996; 74 FR 36103, July 22, 2009]




