# ยง 585.118   What are my appeal rights?

(a) Except as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, any party adversely affected by a final decision issued by BOEM under this part may appeal that decision to the Interior Board of Land Appeals (IBLA), under 30 CFR part 590 and 43 CFR part 4, subpart E.


(b) Any final decision will remain in full force and effect during the pendency of an appeal unless a stay is granted under 43 CFR part 4.


(c) A bidder adversely affected by BOEM's determination of a provisional winner made under this part may appeal to the BOEM Director, but decisions determining a provisional winner may not be appealed to the IBLA.


(1) A bidder that elects to appeal a provisional winner selection decision must file a written appeal with the Director within 15 business days after receipt of the decision.


(2) Such appeal must be accompanied by a statement of reasons. Before reversing a provisional winner selection decision, the Director will provide the provisional winner a reasonable opportunity to respond in writing to the appellant's statement of reasons. The Director will issue a written determination either affirming or reversing the decision. The Director's decision is not appealable to the IBLA under this section.


(3) BOEM will not execute a lease or grant until the 15-business-day appeal period closes and all timely filed appeals are resolved.


(4) The review authority of the Office of Hearings and Appeals does not apply to either the provisional winner selection decisions made under this part or the Director's final determination affirming or reversing a provisional winner selection decision.






