# § 488.454   Duration of remedies.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, alternative remedies continue until—


(1) The facility has achieved substantial compliance, as determined by CMS or the State based upon a revisit or after an examination of credible written evidence that it can verify without an on-site visit; or 


(2) CMS or the State terminates the provider agreement. 


(b) In the cases of State monitoring and denial of payment imposed for repeated substandard quality of care, remedies continue until—


(1) CMS or the State determines that the facility has achieved substantial compliance and is capable of remaining in substantial compliance; or 


(2) CMS or the State terminates the provider agreement. 


(c) In the case of temporary management, the remedy continues until—


(1) CMS or the State determines that the facility has achieved substantial compliance and is capable of remaining in substantial compliance; 


(2) CMS or the State terminates the provider agreement; or 


(3) The facility which has not achieved substantial compliance reassumes management control. In this case, CMS or the State initiates termination of the provider agreement and may impose additional remedies. 


(d) In the case of a civil money penalty imposed for an instance of noncompliance, the remedy is the specific amount of the civil money penalty imposed for the particular deficiency.


(e) If the facility can supply documentation acceptable to CMS or the State survey agency that it was in substantial compliance and was capable of remaining in substantial compliance, if necessary, on a date preceding that of the revisit, the remedies terminate on the date that CMS or the State can verify as the date that substantial compliance was achieved and the facility demonstrated that it could maintain substantial compliance, if necessary. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56243, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50119, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 64 FR 13361, Mar. 18, 1999]




