# § 60.110a   Applicability and designation of affected facility.

(a) *Affected facility.* Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a storage capacity greater than 151,416 liters (40,000 gallons) that is used to store petroleum liquids for which construction is commenced after May 18, 1978. 


(b) Each petroleum liquid storage vessel with a capacity of less than 1,589,873 liters (420,000 gallons) used for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer is not an affected facility and, therefore, is exempt from the requirements of this subpart.


(c) *Alternative means of compliance*—(1) *Option to comply with part 65.* Owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112a through 60.114a for storage vessels that are subject to this subpart that store petroleum liquids that, as stored, have a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 10.3 kPa (1.5 psia). Other provisions applying to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1. 


(2) *Part 60, subpart A.* Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for those storage vessels. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (c)(2) do not apply to owners or operators of storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.



---

[N] [45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 78275, Dec. 14, 2000]




