# § 121.319   Crewmember interphone system.

(a) No person may operate an airplane with a seating capacity of more than 19 passengers unless the airplane is equipped with a crewmember interphone system that: 


(1) [Reserved] 


(2) Is capable of operation independent of the public address system required by § 121.318(a) except for handsets, headsets, microphones, selector switches, and signaling devices; and 


(3) Meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. 


(b) The crewmember interphone system required by paragraph (a) of this section must be approved in accordance with § 21.305 of this chapter and meet the following requirements: 


(1) It must provide a means of two-way communication between the pilot compartment and— 


(i) Each passenger compartment; and 


(ii) Each galley located on other than the main passenger deck level. 


(2) It must be accessible for immediate use from each of two flight crewmember stations in the pilot compartment; 


(3) It must be accessible for use from at least one normal flight attendant station in each passenger compartment; 


(4) It must be capable of operation within 10 seconds by a flight attendant at those stations in each passenger compartment from which its use is accessible; and 


(5) For large turbojet-powered airplanes: 


(i) It must be accessible for use at enough flight attendant stations so that all floor-level emergency exits (or entryways to those exits in the case of exits located within galleys) in each passenger compartment are observable from one or more of those stations so equipped; 


(ii) It must have an alerting system incorporating aural or visual signals for use by flight crewmembers to alert flight attendants and for use by flight attendants to alert flight crewmembers; 


(iii) The alerting system required by paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section must have a means for the recipient of a call to determine whether it is a normal call or an emergency call; and 


(iv) When the airplane is on the ground, it must provide a means of two-way communication between ground personnel and either of at least two flight crewmembers in the pilot compartment. The interphone system station for use by ground personnel must be so located that personnel using the system may avoid visible detection from within the airplane. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 10865, 38 FR 21494, Aug. 9, 1973, as amended by Amdt. 121-121, 40 FR 42186, Sept. 11, 1975; Amdt. 121-149, 43 FR 50602, Oct. 30, 1978; Amdt. 121-178, 47 FR 13316, Mar. 29, 1982; Amdt. 121-253, 61 FR 2611, Jan. 26, 1996] 




