# ยง 301.75-12   Certificates and limited permits.

(a) *Issuance and withdrawal.* (1) Certificates and limited permits may be issued for the interstate movement of regulated articles only by an inspector or by persons operating under a compliance agreement. 


(2) A certificate or limited permit may be withdrawn by an inspector if the inspector determines that any of the applicable requirements of this subpart have not been met. The decision of the inspector and the reason for the withdrawal must be confirmed in writing as promptly as circumstances allow. Any person whose certificate or limited permit is withdrawn may appeal the decision in writing to the Administrator within 10 days after receiving the written notification. The appeal must state all of the facts and reasons upon which the person relies to show that the certificate or limited permit was wrongfully withdrawn. The Administrator must grant or deny the appeal in writing, stating the reasons for the decision, as promptly as circumstances allow. If there is a conflict as to any material fact, a hearing will be held to resolve the conflict. Rules of practice concerning the hearing will be adopted by the Administrator. 


(b) *Attachment and disposition.* (1) Except as provided in ยง 301.75-6(b)(8) for kumquat plants, or in ยง 301.75-6(c)(4) through (c)(5) for any regulated nursery stock, certificates and limited permits accompanying regulated articles interstate must be attached during the interstate movement to one of the following: 


(i) The outside of the regulated article, if the regulated article is not packed in a container, or 


(ii) The outside of the container in which the regulated article is packed, or 


(iii) The consignee's copy of the accompanying waybill, but only if the regulated article is described on the certificate, limited permit, or waybill in a way that allows the regulated article to be identified. 


(2) Certificates and limited permits accompanying regulated articles interstate must be given to the consignee at the point of destination. 



---

[N] [55 FR 37453, Sept. 11, 1990, as amended at 72 FR 13428, Mar. 22, 2007; 74 FR 16104, Apr. 9, 2009; 76 FR 23457, Apr. 27, 2011; 88 FR 85470, Dec. 8, 2023]




