# § 139.301   Records.

In a manner authorized by the Administrator, each certificate holder must— 


(a) Furnish upon request by the Administrator all records required to be maintained under this part. 


(b) Maintain records required under this part as follows: 




(1) *Personnel training.* Twenty-four consecutive calendar months for personnel training records and orientation materials, as required under §§ 139.303, 139.327, and 139.402(d).


(2) *Emergency personnel training.* Twenty-four consecutive calendar months for aircraft rescue and firefighting and emergency medical service personnel training records, as required under § 139.319. 


(3) *Airport fueling agent inspection.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for records of inspection of airport fueling agents, as required under § 139.321. 


(4) *Fueling personnel training.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for training records of fueling personnel, as required under § 139.321. 


(5) *Self-inspection.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for self-inspection records, as required under § 139.327. 


(6) *Movement areas and safety areas training.* Twenty-four consecutive calendar months for records of training given to pedestrians and ground vehicle operators with access to movement areas and safety areas, as required under § 139.329. 


(7) *Accident and incident.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for each accident or incident in movement areas and safety areas involving an air carrier aircraft and/or ground vehicle, as required under § 139.329. 


(8) *Airport condition.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for records of airport condition information dissemination, as required under § 139.339. 


(9) *Safety risk management documentation.* The longer of thirty-six consecutive calendar months after the risk analysis of identified hazards under § 139.402(b)(2) has been completed, or twelve consecutive calendar months after mitigations required under §  139.402(b)(2)(v) have been completed.


(10) *Safety communications.* Twelve consecutive calendar months for safety communications, as required under § 139.402(d).


(c) Make and maintain any additional records required by the Administrator, this part, and the Airport Certification Manual. 



---

[N] [Docket No. FAA-2000-7479, 69 FR 6424, Feb. 10, 2004, as amended by Docket No. FAA-2010-0997;Amdt. No. 139-28, 88 FR 11672, Feb. 23, 2023]




