# § 32.26   Connecticut.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow refuge access 1
1/2 hours prior to legal sunrise until 1
1/2 hours after legal sunset.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section applies.


(ii) We prohibit launching of motorboats from the refuge.


(iii) We prohibit the use of reptiles and amphibians as bait.


(b) *Stewart B. McKinney National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, coot, merganser, brant, sea duck, and goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) For the Great Meadows unit, we will limit hunt days to Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays during the regular duck, sea duck, and brant seasons.


(ii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(iii) We allow the use of temporary tree stands and blinds, which must be removed at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow archery hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: The condition set forth at paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section applies.


(4) [Reserved]



---

[N] [85 FR 54106, Aug. 31, 2020]




