# ยง 811.0   Definition of terms.

In this part, unless the context otherwise requires or indicates: 


(a) *Reserve Bank* means the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (and any other Federal Reserve Bank which agrees to issue Federal Financing Bank securities in book-entry form) as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of the Federal Financing Bank and, when indicated, acting in its individual capacity. 


(b) *Federal Financing Bank security* means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in the form of a definitive Federal Financing Bank security or a book-entry Federal Financing Bank security. 


(c) *Definitive Federal Financing Bank security* means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in engraved or printed form. 


(d) *Book-entry Federal Financing Bank security* means a Federal Financing Bank bond, note, certificate of indebtedness, or bill issued under the Federal Financing Bank Act of 1973, in the form of an entry made as prescribed in this part on the records of a Reserve Bank. 


(e) *Pledge* includes a pledge of, or any other security interest in, Federal Financing Bank securities as collateral for loans or advances or to secure deposits of public monies or the performance of an obligation. 


(f) *Date of call* is the date fixed in the official notice of call published in the _Federal Register_ on which the Federal Financing Bank will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms. 


(g) *Member bank* means any national bank, State bank or bank or trust company which is a member of a Reserve Bank. 




