# § 25.251   Authorized removals.

(a) *Brewer's yeast.* A brewer may remove brewer's yeast, in liquid or solid form containing not less than 10 percent solids (as determined by the methods of analysis of the American Society of Brewing Chemists), from the brewery in barrels, tank trucks, in other suitable containers, or by pipeline.


(b) *Containers.* Containers will bear a label giving the name and location of the brewery and including the words “Brewer's Yeast.”


(c) *Pipeline.* If brewer's yeast is removed by pipeline, the pipeline will be described in the Brewer's Notice, Form 5130.10. The premises where the brewer's yeast is received is subject to inspection by an appropriate TTB officer during ordinary business hours.


(d) *Other articles.* A brewer may remove malt, malt syrup, wort, and other articles from the brewery.


(e) *Methods of Analysis of the American Society of Brewing Chemists, Seventh Edition (1976).* In reference to paragraph (a) of this section, this incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on March 23, 1981, and is available for inspection or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.* This publication is available from the American Society of Brewing Chemists, 40 Pilot Knob Road, St. Paul, Minnesota 55121.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87943, Nov. 6, 2024]




