# § 301.89-1   Definitions.

*Actual price received.* The net price after adjustment for any premiums or discounts stated on the sales receipt.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS).* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


*Certificate.* A document in which an inspector or a person operating under a compliance agreement affirms that a specified regulated article meets the requirements of this subpart and may be moved to any destination. 


*Compliance agreement.* A written agreement between APHIS and a person engaged in growing, handling, or moving regulated articles, in which the person agrees to comply with the provisions of this subpart and any conditions imposed under this subpart. 


*Contaminated seed.* Seed from sources in which the Karnal bunt pathogen (*Tilletia indica* (Mitra) Mundkur) has been determined to exist by the presence of bunted kernels or teliospores.


*Contract price.* The net price after adjustment for any premiums or discounts stated in the contract.


*Conveyances.* Containers used to move wheat, durum wheat, or triticale, or their products, including trucks, trailers, railroad cars, bins, and hoppers. 


*Distinct definable area.* A commercial wheat production area of contiguous fields that is separated from other wheat production areas by desert, mountains, or other nonagricultural terrain as determined by an inspector, based on survey results. 


*Grain.* Wheat, durum wheat, and triticale used for consumption or processing.


*Grain storage facility.* That part of a grain handling operation or unit or a grain handling operation, consisting or structures, conveyances, and equipment that receive, unload, and store, grain, and that is able to operate as an independent unit from other units of the grain handling operation. A grain handling operation may be one grain storage facility or may be comprised of many grain storage facilities on a single premises.


*Hay.* Host crops cut and dried for feeding to livestock. Hay cut after reaching the dough stage may contain mature kernels of the host crop.


*Host crops.* Plants or plant parts, including grain, seed, or hay, of wheat, durum wheat, and triticale.


*Infestation (infected).* The presence of Karnal bunt, or any identifiable stage of development (*i.e.,* bunted kernels in grain, bunted kernels or teliospores in seed) of the fungus *Tilletia indica* (Mitra) Mundkur, or the existence of circumstances that make it reasonable to believe that Karnal bunt is present.


*Inspector.* An APHIS employee or designated cooperator/collaborator authorized by the Administrator to enforce the provisions of this subpart. 


*Karnal bunt.* A plant disease caused by the fungus *Tilletia indica* (Mitra) Mundkur. 


*Limited permit.* A document in which an inspector affirms that a specified regulated article not eligible for a certificate is eligible for movement only to a specified destination and in accordance with conditions specified on the permit. 


*Mechanized cultivating equipment and mechanized harvesting equipment.* Mechanized equipment used for soil tillage, including tillage attachments for farm tractors—*e.g.,* tractors, disks, plows, harrows, planters, and subsoilers; mechanized equipment used for harvesting purposes—*e.g.,* combines, grain buggies, trucks, swathers, and hay balers.


*Movement (moved).* The act of shipping, transporting, delivering, or receiving for movement, or otherwise aiding, abetting, inducing or causing to be moved. 


*Person.* Any association, company, corporation, firm, individual, joint stock company, partnership, society, or any other legal entity. 


*Plant.* Any plant (including any plant part) for or capable of propagation, including a tree, a tissue culture, a plantlet culture, pollen, a shrub, a vine, a cutting, a graft, a scion, a bud, a bulb, a root, and a seed.


*Seed.* Wheat, durum wheat, and triticale used for propagation.


*Soil.* The loose surface material of the earth in which plants grow, in most cases consisting of disintegrated rock with an admixture of organic material. 


*Soil-moving equipment.* Equipment used for moving or transporting soil, including, but not limited to, bulldozers, dump trucks, or road scrapers. 


*State.* The District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, or any State, territory, or possession of the United States. 


*Straw.* The vegetative material left after the harvest of host crops. Straw is generally used as animal feed, bedding, mulch, or for erosion control.


*Tilling.* The turning of a minimum of the top 6 inches of soil.



---

[N] [61 FR 52207, Oct. 4, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 23624, May 1, 1997; 62 FR 24751, May 6, 1997; 63 FR 31599, June 10, 1998; 64 FR 23752, May 4, 1999; 69 FR 8095, Feb. 23, 2004]








