# § 524.814   Eprinomectin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) contains 5 milligrams (mg) of eprinomectin.




(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 000010, 051072, and 055529 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.227 of this chapter.


(d) *Special considerations.* See § 500.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Conditions of use in cattle*—(1) *Amount.* Apply 5 mg (1 mL) per 10 kilograms (kg) of body weight (500 micrograms/kg) topically along backbone from withers to tailhead.


(2) *Indications for use.* For treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms (*Haemonchus placei* (adult and L4), *Ostertagia ostertagi* (adult and L4, including inhibited L4), *Trichostrongylus axei* (adult and L4), *T. colubriformis* (adult and L4), *T. longispicularis* (adult), *Cooperia oncophora* (adult and L4), *C. punctata* (adult and L4), *C. surnabada* (adult and L4), *Nematodirus helvetianus* (adult and L4), *Bunostomum phlebotomum* (adult and L4), *Oesophagostomum radiatum* (adult and L4), *Strongyloides papillosus* (adults), *Trichuris* spp. (adults)); lungworms (*Dictyocaulus viviparus,* adult and L4); cattle grubs (all parasitic stages *Hypoderma lineatum, H. bovis*); lice (*Damalinia bovis, Linognathus vituli, Haematopinus eurysternus, Solenopotes capillatus*); mange mites (*Chorioptes bovis, Sarcoptes scabiei*); and horn flies (*Haematobia irritans*). Controls and protects from reinfection of *D. viviparus* for 21 days after treatment and *H. irritans* for 7 days after treatment.


(3) *Limitations.* A withdrawal period has not been established for preruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal.



---

[N] [76 FR 72619, Nov. 25, 2011, as amended at 83 FR 48946, Sept. 28, 2018; 84 FR 39184, Aug. 9, 2019; 88 FR 27700, May 3, 2023]




