# ยง 25.213   Beer returned to brewery other than that from which removed.

(a) *Refund or adjustment of tax.* If beer on which the tax has been determined or paid is returned to a brewery of the brewer other than the one from which removed, the brewer may make a claim for refund or relief of tax or may make an adjustment to the beer tax return, for the tax on the beer returned to the brewery. The brewer may not take an offset for beer returned to the brewery other than the one from which removed. Procedures for filing claims for refund or relief of tax or for making adjustments to the beer tax return are contained in subpart T of this part.


(b) *Notice.* A brewer need not file notice of intention to return beer to a brewery other than the one from which removed unless required by the appropriate TTB officer. When a notice is required, the brewer shall serially number each notice and execute it under penalties of perjury as defined in ยง 25.11. The brewer must file it with the appropriate TTB officer. The notice will contain the following information:


(1) The number and sizes of kegs and the actual quantity of beer, in barrels; or the number of cases and the number and sizes of bottles within the cases and the actual quantity of beer, in barrels;


(2) The name and address of the brewery from which the beer was removed;


(3) A statement that the tax on the beer has been fully paid or determined and the rate at which the tax on the beer was paid or determined; and


(4) If the title to the beer has passed, the name and address of the person returning the beer.


(c) *Return of beer.* If the brewer is required to file a notice of intention to return beer to the brewery, the brewer may bring the beer onto the brewery premises prior to filing the notice. The brewer shall segregate the returned beer from all other beer at the brewery and clearly identify it as returned beer. The returned beer will be retained intact for inspection by an appropriate TTB officer until the notice has been filed and disposition authorized.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5479, Jan. 19, 2001]




