# § 126.3   Definitions.

As used in this part— 


*Break-bulk* means packages that are handled individually, palletized, or unitized for purposes of transportation, as opposed to materials in bulk and containerized freight. 


*Bulk* means without mark or count and directly loaded or unloaded to or from a hold or tank on a vessel without the use of containers or break-bulk packaging. 


*Captain of the port* or *COTP* means the officer of the Coast Guard, under the command of a District Commander, is designated by the Commandant for the purpose of giving immediate direction to Coast Guard law enforcement activities within an assigned area. 


*Cargo of particular hazard* means any of the following:


(1) Division 1.1 and 1.2 explosives, as defined in 49 CFR 173.50, for which a permit is required under 33 CFR 126.17. 


(2) Ammonium nitrate products, division 5.1 (oxidizing) materials listed in 49 CFR 176.410, for which a permit is required under 49 CFR 176.415. 


(3) Division 4.3 dangerous when wet products as defined in 49 CFR 173.124, in excess of 60 mt. 


(4) Division 2.3 and 6.1 poison inhalation hazard products as defined in 49 CFR 173.115 and 173.132, respectively. 


(5) Class 7 highway route controlled quantity radioactive material or fissile material, controlled shipment, as defined in 49 CFR 173.403. 


*Commandant* means the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard. 


*Container* means a reusable container that has a volume of 1.81 cubic meters (64 cubic feet) or more, is designed and constructed to permit being lifted with its contents intact, and is intended primarily for containment of packages (in unit form) during transportation. 


*Dangerous cargo* means all hazardous materials listed in 49 CFR parts 170 through 179, except those materials preceded by an “A” in the Hazardous Materials Table in 49 CFR 172.101, and all cargo listed in 46 CFR part 148.


*Designated dangerous cargo* means Division 1.1 and 1.2 explosives as defined in 49 CFR 173.50. 


*Designated waterfront facility* means a waterfront facility designated under § 126.13 for the handling, storing, loading, and discharging of any hazardous material(s) subject to the Dangerous Cargoes Regulations (49 CFR parts 170 through 179), except for those materials preceded by an “A” in the Hazardous Materials Table in 49 CFR 172.101 and for those materials carried as bulk liquids. 


*Facility of particular hazard* means a designated waterfront facility that is authorized to handle a cargo of particular hazard. 


*Facility operator* means the person or company who owns, operates, or is responsible for the operation of a waterfront facility. 


*Net tons* means net weight in tons. 


*Net weight,* in reference to material in a package, tank, or container, means the weight of the contents of a package, tank, or container and does not include the weight of any packaging material or containing devices. 


*Transport unit* means a transport vehicle or a container. 


*Waterfront facility* means all piers, wharves, and similar structures to which a vessel may be secured; areas of land, water, or land and water under and in the immediate proximity to these structures; buildings on or contiguous to these structures; and the equipment and materials on or in these structures or buildings. The term does not include facilities directly operated by the Department of Defense.



---

[N] [USCG-1998-4302, 68 FR 55440, Sept. 26, 2003, as amended by USCG-2008-0179, 73 FR 35013, June 19, 2008]




