# § 334.590   Atlantic Ocean off Cape Canaveral, Fla.; Air Force missile testing area, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla.

(a) *The danger zone.* An area in the Atlantic Ocean immediately offshore from Cape Canaveral defined by a line 3 nautical miles from shore, said area terminating in the north at a line on a bearing of 70° from a point on shore at approximate latitude 28°35′ north and in the south at a line on a bearing of 115° from a point on the shore at approximate latitude 28°25′ north.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) All unauthorized persons and vessels are prohibited from operating within the danger zone during firing periods to be specified by the Commander, Air Force Missile Test Center, Patrick Air Force Base.


(2) Warning signals will be used to warn persons and vessels that the danger zone is active. These signals will be in the form of a large red ball and a red flashing high intensity beacon. One signal will be located on a 90-foot pole near the shoreline at the north end of the danger zone, and one signal will be located on a 90-foot pole near the shoreline about one-half mile north of the south limit of the danger zone. An amber rotating beacon and warning sign will be erected on the north side of the Port Canaveral ship channel to indicate to vessels about to leave the harbor that the danger zone is in use.


(3) When the signals in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are displayed, all persons and vessels, except those authorized personnel and patrol vessels, will immediately leave the danger zone by the most direct route and stay out until the signals are discontinued.


(4) The regulations in this paragraph shall be enforced by the Commander, Air Force Missile Test Center, Patrick Air Force Base, Fla., and such agencies as he may designate.



---

[N] [22 FR 4814, July 9, 1957, as amended at 23 FR 3716, May 29, 1958; 27 FR 4778, May 19, 1962. Redesignated at 50 FR 42696, Oct. 22, 1985, as amended at 62 FR 17554, Apr. 10, 1997]




