# § 73.6   Placarding means of conveyance and marking billing of shipments of treated scabby cattle or cattle exposed to scabies.

When cattle are shipped as “Treated Scabby Cattle,” or “Cattle Exposed to Scabies,” the transportation companies shall securely affix to and maintain upon both sides of each means of conveyance carrying such cattle a durable, conspicuous placard, not less than 5
1/2 by 8 inches in size, on which shall be printed with permanent black ink in boldfaced letters, not less than 1
1/2 inches in height, the words, “Treated Scabby Cattle,” or “Cattle Exposed to Scabies,” as the case may be. These placards shall also show the name of the place from which the shipment was made, the date of the shipment (which must correspond to the date of the waybills and other papers), the name of the transportation company, and the name of the place of destination. The carrier issuing the waybills, conductors' manifests, memoranda, and bills of lading pertaining to such shipments shall plainly write or stamp upon the face of each such paper the words, “Treated Scabby Cattle,” or “Cattle Exposed to Scabies,” as the case may be. If for any reason the placards required by this part have not been affixed to the means of conveyance as aforesaid, or the placards have been removed, destroyed, or rendered illegible, or the cattle are rebilled or are transferred to other means of conveyance, the placards shall be immediately affixed or replaced by the carrier, and the new waybills shall be marked as aforesaid by the carrier issuing them, the intention being that the billing accompanying the shipment shall be marked and the means of conveyance containing the cattle shall be placarded “Treated Scabby Cattle,” or “Cattle Exposed to Scabies,” as the case may be, from the time of shipment until the cattle arrive at destination or point of dipping and the disposition of the means of conveyance is indicated by an APHIS inspector or State inspector. 



---

[N] [28 FR 5945, June 13, 1963, as amended at 41 FR 5384, Feb. 6, 1976; 49 FR 10530, Mar. 20, 1984; 49 FR 33120, Aug. 21, 1984; 56 FR 52463, Oct. 21, 1991; 66 FR 21062, Apr. 27, 2001] 




