# ยง 302.19   Bonding of employees.

The State plan shall provide that the following requirements and criteria to bond employees are in effect: 


(a) *IV-D responsibility.* The IV-D agency will insure that every person, who has access to or control over funds collected under the child support enforcement program, is covered by a bond against loss resulting from employee dishonesty. 


(b) *Scope.* The requirement in paragraph (a) of this section applies to every person who, as a regular part of his or her employment, receives, disburses, handles or has access to support collections, which includes: 


(1) IV-D agency employees and employees of any other State or local agency to which IV-D functions have been delegated. 


(2) Employees of a court or law enforcement official performing under a cooperative agreement with the IV-D agency. 


(3) Employees of any private or governmental entity from which the IV-D agency purchases services.


(c) *Bond.* The bond will be for an amount which the State IV-D agency deems adequate to indemnify the State IV-D program for loss resulting from employee dishonesty. 


(d) *Self-bonding System.* A State or political subdivision may comply with the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section:


(1) By means of a self-bonding system established under State law or,


(2) In the case of a political subdivision, by means of a self-bonding system approved by the State IV-D agency. 


(e) *IV-D liability.* The requirements of this section do not reduce or limit the ultimate liability of the IV-D agency for losses of support collections from the State's IV-D program.



---

[N] [44 FR 28803, May 17, 1979; 44 FR 45137, Aug. 1, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 57281, Dec. 23, 1982]




