# § 1.1274-2   Issue price of debt instruments to which section 1274 applies.

(a) *In general.* If section 1274 applies to a debt instrument, section 1274 and this section determine the issue price of the debt instrument. For rules relating to the determination of the amount and timing of OID to be included in income, see section 1272 and the regulations thereunder.


(b) *Issue price*—(1) *Debt instruments that provide for adequate stated interest; stated principal amount.* The issue price of a debt instrument that provides for adequate stated interest is the stated principal amount of the debt instrument. For purposes of section 1274, the stated principal amount of a debt instrument is the aggregate amount of all payments due under the debt instrument, excluding any amount of stated interest. Under § 1.1273-2(g)(2)(ii), however, the stated principal amount of a debt instrument is reduced by any payment from the buyer- borrower to the seller-lender that is designated as interest or points. See *Example 2* of § 1.1273-2(g)(5).


(2) *Debt instruments that do not provide for adequate stated interest; imputed principal amount.* The issue price of a debt instrument that does not provide for adequate stated interest is the imputed principal amount of the debt instrument.


(3) *Debt instruments issued in a potentially abusive situation; fair market value.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, in the case of a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation (as defined in § 1.1274-3), the issue price of the debt instrument is the fair market value of the property received in exchange for the debt instrument, reduced by the fair market value of any consideration other than the debt instrument issued in consideration for the sale or exchange.


(c) *Determination of whether a debt instrument provides for adequate stated interest*—(1) *In general.* A debt instrument provides for adequate stated interest if its stated principal amount is less than or equal to its imputed principal amount. Imputed principal amount means the sum of the present values, as of the issue date, of all payments, including payments of stated interest, due under the debt instrument (determined by using a discount rate equal to the test rate of interest as determined under § 1.1274-4). If a debt instrument has a single fixed rate of interest that is paid or compounded at least annually, and that rate is equal to or greater than the test rate, the debt instrument has adequate stated interest.


(2) *Determination of present value.* The present value of a payment is determined by discounting the payment from the date it becomes due to the date of the sale or exchange at the test rate of interest. To determine present value, a compounding period must be selected, and the test rate must be based on the same compounding period.


(d) *Treatment of certain options.* This paragraph (d) provides rules for determining the issue price of a debt instrument to which section 1274 applies (other than a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation) that is subject to one or more options described in both paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(5) of § 1.1272-1. Under this paragraph (d), an issuer will be deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that minimizes the instrument's imputed principal amount, and a holder will be deemed to exercise or not exercise an option or combination of options in a manner that maximizes the instrument's imputed principal amount. If both the issuer and the holder have options, the rules of this paragraph (d) are applied to the options in the order that they may be exercised. Thus, the deemed exercise of one option may eliminate other options that are later in time. See § 1.1272-1(c)(5) to determine the debt instrument's yield and maturity for purposes of determining the accrual of OID with respect to the instrument.


(e) *Mandatory sinking funds.* In determining the issue price of a debt instrument to which section 1274 applies (other than a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation) and that is subject to a mandatory sinking fund provision described in § 1.1272-1(c)(3), the mandatory sinking fund provision is ignored.


(f) *Treatment of variable rate debt instruments*—(1) *Stated interest at a qualified floating rate*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the imputed principal amount of a variable rate debt instrument (within the meaning of § 1.1275-5(a)) that provides for stated interest at a qualified floating rate (or rates) is determined by assuming that the instrument provides for a fixed rate of interest for each accrual period to which a qualified floating rate applies. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the assumed fixed rate in each accrual period is the greater of—


(A) The value of the applicable qualified floating rate as of the first date on which there is a binding written contract that substantially sets forth the terms under which the sale or exchange is ultimately consummated; or


(B) The value of the applicable qualified floating rate as of the date on which the sale or exchange occurs.


(ii) *Interest rate restrictions.* Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, if, as a result of interest rate restrictions (such as an interest rate cap), the expected yield of the debt instrument taking the restrictions into account is significantly less than the expected yield of the debt instrument without regard to the restrictions, the interest payments on the debt instrument (other than any fixed interest payments) are treated as contingent payments. Reasonably symmetric interest rate caps and floors, or reasonably symmetric governors, that are fixed throughout the term of the debt instrument do not result in the debt instrument being subject to this rule.


(2) *Stated interest at a single objective rate.* For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the imputed principal amount of a variable rate debt instrument (within the meaning of § 1.1275-5(a)) that provides for stated interest at a single objective rate is determined by treating the interest payments as contingent payments.


(g) *Treatment of contingent payment debt instruments.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if a debt instrument subject to section 1274 provides for one or more contingent payments, the issue price of the debt instrument is the lesser of the instrument's noncontingent principal payments and the sum of the present values of the noncontingent payments (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section). However, if the debt instrument is issued in a potentially abusive situation, the issue price of the debt instrument is the fair market value of the noncontingent payments. For additional rules relating to a debt instrument that provides for one or more contingent payments, see § 1.1275-4. This paragraph (g) applies to debt instruments issued on or after August 13, 1996.


(h) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this section. Each example assumes a 30-day month, 360-day year. In addition, each example assumes that the debt instrument is not a qualified debt instrument (as defined in section 1274A(b)) and is not issued in a potentially abusive situation.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Special rules for tax-exempt obligations*—(1) *Certain variable rate debt instruments.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, if a tax-exempt obligation (as defined in section 1275(a)(3)) is a variable rate debt instrument (within the meaning of § 1.1275-5) that pays interest at an objective rate and is subject to section 1274, the issue price of the obligation is the greater of the obligation's fair market value and its stated principal amount.


(2) *Contingent payment debt instruments.* Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section, if a tax-exempt obligation (as defined in section 1275(a)(3)) is subject to section 1274 and § 1.1275-4, the issue price of the obligation is the fair market value of the obligation. However, in the case of a tax-exempt obligation that is subject to § 1.1275-4(d)(2) (an obligation that provides for interest-based or revenue-based payments), the issue price of the obligation is the greater of the obligation's fair market value and its stated principal amount.


(3) *Effective date.* This paragraph (j) applies to debt instruments issued on or after August 13, 1996.



---

[N] [T.D. 8517, 59 FR 4821, Feb. 2, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8674, 61 FR 30141, June 14, 1996]




