# § 6.3   Definitions.

The terms *Department, HUD,* and *Secretary* are defined in 24 CFR part 5. Other terms used in this part 6 are defined as follows:


*Act* means the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5301-5320).


*Assistant Secretary* means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity.


*Award Official* means the HUD official who has been delegated the Secretary's authority to implement a Title I funded program and to make grants under that program.


*Complete complaint* means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address, identifies the Recipient against which the complaint is made, and describes the Recipient's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform HUD of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 109. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.


*Federal financial assistance* means: (1) Any assistance made available under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and includes income generated from such assistance, and any grant, loan, contract, or any other arrangement, in the form of:


(i) Funds;


(ii) Services of Federal personnel; or


(iii) Real or personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:


(A) Transfers or leases of the property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and


(B) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of the property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(2) Any assistance in the form of proceeds from loans guaranteed under section 108 of the Act, but does not include assistance made available through direct Federal procurement contracts or any other contract of insurance or guaranty.


*Program or activity (funded in whole or in part)* means all of the operations of—


(1)(i) A department, agency, special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State or local government; or


(ii) The entity of a State or local government that distributes Federal financial assistance, and each department or agency (and each State or local government entity) to which the assistance is extended, in the case of assistance to a State or local government;


(2)(i) A college, university, or other post-secondary institution, or a public system of higher education; or


(ii) A local educational agency (as defined in section 198(a)(10) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965), system of vocational education or other school system;


(3)(i) An entire corporation, partnership, or other private organization, or an entire sole proprietorship—


(A) If assistance is extended to the corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship as a whole; or


(B) Which is principally engaged in the business of providing education, health care, housing, social services, or parks and recreation; or


(ii) The entire plant or other comparable, geographically separate facility to which Federal financial assistance is extended, in the case of any other corporation, partnership, private organization, or sole proprietorship; or


(4) Any other entity that is described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of this definition, any part of which is extended Federal financial assistance.


*Recipient* means any State, political subdivision of any State, or instrumentality of any State or political subdivision; any public or private agency, institution, organization, or other entity; or any individual, in any State, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended, directly or through another Recipient, for any program or activity, or who otherwise participates in carrying out such program or activity, including any successor, assign, or transferee thereof. Recipient does not include any ultimate beneficiary under any program or activity.


*Responsible Official* means the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity or his or her designee.


*Section 109* means section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended.


*Title I* means title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301-5321).




