# ยง 62.9350   Identification of plan.

(a) *Identification of plan.* Oregon Designated Facility Plan (Section 111(d) Plan).


(b) The plan was officially submitted as follows:


(1) Control of fluoride emissions from phosphate fertilizer plants, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on June 1, 1977.


(2) Control of sulfuric acid mist emissions from sulfuric acid production units, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on January 27, 1978.


(3) Control of fluoride emissions from primary aluminum reduction plants, submitted by the Oregon State Department of Environmental Quality on January 13, 1981 and August 9, 1982.


(4) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing municipal waste combustors was submitted by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on December 31, 1996.


(5) Control of emissions from existing municipal solid waste landfills was submitted by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on August 2, 2019, amending a plan previously submitted on May 14, 1997 and approved by the EPA on June 26, 1998.


(6) Control of metals, acid gases, organic compounds, particulates and nitrogen oxide emissions from existing Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators was submitted by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality on October 20, 1998, and November 6, 1998. 


(c) *Designated facilities.* The plan applies to existing facilities in the following categories of sources:


(1) Phosphate fertilizer plants.


(2) Sulfuric acid production units.


(3) Primary aluminum reduction plants.


(4) Existing municipal waste combustors.


(5) Existing municipal solid waste landfills.


(6) Existing Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators. 



---

[N] [48 FR 11118, Mar. 16, 1983, as amended at 62 FR 36997, July 10, 1997; 63 FR 34818, June 26, 1998; 65 FR 21362, Apr. 21, 2000; 85 FR 63449,  Oct. 8, 2020]




