# ยง 1955.5   General actions.

(a) *Assignment of notes to Rural Development.* When liquidation action is approved and the insured note is not held in the County or District Office, the approval official will request the Finance Office to purchase the note and forward it to the appropriate office. Voluntary conveyance may be closed pending receipt of the note(s), and foreclosure may also be processed pending receipt of the note(s), unless the original note is required in connection with the foreclosure action.


(b) *Execution of documents.* (1) After liquidation of loans to individuals has been approved by the appropriate official, the County Supervisor is authorized to execute all necessary forms and documents except notices of acceleration required to complete transactions covered by this subpart.


(2) After liquidation of loans to organizations has been approved by the appropriate official, the District Director is authorized to execute all forms and documents for completion of the liquidation except:


(i) Notice of acceleration; or


(ii) Other form or document which specifically required State or National Office approval because of monetary limits or policy statement established elsewhere in this subpart.


(c) *Unused loan funds.* (1) Funds remaining in a supervised bank account will be handed in accordance with ยง 1902.15 of subpart A of part 1902 of this chapter before a voluntary conveyance or foreclosure is processed.


(2) Funds remaining in a construction or other account will be applied to the borrower's Rural Development accounts.


(d) *Payment of costs.* Costs related to liquidation of a loan or acquisition of property will be paid according to RD Instruction 2024-A as either a recoverable or nonrecoverable cost as defined in ยง 1955.3 of this subpart.


(e) *Escrow funds.* Any funds remaining in the borrower's escrow account at the time of liquidation by voluntary conveyance or foreclosure are nonrefundable and will be credited to the borrower's loan account.



---

[N] [50 FR 23904, June 7, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 6953, Feb. 21, 1991, 57 FR 36590, Aug. 14, 1992]




