# ยง 2.211   Summons to appear or warrant for retaking releasee.

(a) If a releasee is alleged to have violated the conditions of his release, and satisfactory evidence thereof is presented, a Commissioner may: 


(1) Issue a summons requiring the releasee to appear for a probable cause hearing or local revocation hearing; or 


(2) Issue a warrant for the apprehension and return of the releasee to custody.


(b) A summons or warrant under paragraph (a) of this section may be issued or withdrawn only by a Commissioner. 


(c) Any summons or warrant under this section shall be issued as soon as practicable after the alleged violation is reported to the Commission, except when delay is deemed necessary. Issuance of a summons or warrant may be withheld until the frequency or seriousness of the violations, in the opinion of a Commissioner, requires such issuance. In the case of any releasee who is charged with a criminal offense and who is awaiting disposition of such charge, issuance of a summons or warrant may be: 


(1) Temporarily withheld; 


(2) Issued by the Commission and held in abeyance; 


(3) Issued by the Commission and a detainer lodged with the custodial authority; or 


(4) Issued for the retaking of the releasee. 


(d) A summons or warrant may be issued only within the maximum term or terms of the period of supervised release being served by the releasee, except as provided for an absconder from supervision in ยง 2.204(i). A summons or warrant shall be considered issued when signed and either: 


(1) Placed in the mail; or 


(2) Sent by electronic transmission to the appropriate law enforcement authority. 


(e) The issuance of a warrant under this section operates to bar the expiration of the term of supervised release. Such warrant maintains the Commission's jurisdiction to retake the releasee either before or after the normal expiration date of the term, and for such time as may be reasonably necessary for the Commission to reach a final decision as to revocation of the term of supervised release. 


(f) A summons or warrant issued pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a warrant application (or other notice) stating: 


(1) The charges against the releasee; 


(2) The specific reports and other documents upon which the Commission intends to rely in determining whether a violation of supervised release has occurred and whether to revoke supervised release; 


(3) Notice of the Commission's intent, if the releasee is arrested within the District of Columbia, to hold a probable cause hearing within five days of the releasee's arrest; 


(4) A statement of the purpose of the probable cause hearing; 


(5) The days of the week on which the Commission regularly holds its dockets of probable cause hearings at the Central Detention Facility; 


(6) The releasee's procedural rights in the revocation process; and 


(7) The possible actions that the Commission may take. 


(g) In the case of an offender who is serving concurrent terms of parole and supervised release under the Commission's jurisdiction, the Commission may take any action permitted by this section on the basis of one or more of the terms (*e.g.,* the Commission may issue warrants on both terms, and order that the first warrant should be executed, and that the second warrant should be placed as a detainer and executed only when the offender is released from the prison term that begins with the execution of the first warrant). The Commission may conduct separate revocation hearings, or consider all parole and supervised release violation charges in one combined hearing and make dispositions on the parole and supervised release terms. If the Commission conducts separate revocation hearings and revokes parole or supervised release at the first hearing, the Commission may conduct the subsequent hearing on the same violation behavior as an institutional hearing. 




