# Appendix G to Part 1128—Terms and Conditions for FMS Article VII, “Program Income”


Unless a DoD Component revises the wording of Section A or E or reserves Section D, as permitted by §§ 1128.710 through 1128.725, a DoD Component's general terms and conditions must use the following wording for FMS Article VII.


*Section A. Definition.* The term “program income” as used in this award:


1. Is gross income that:


a. You earn that is directly generated by a supported activity or earned as a result of this award; or


b. A subrecipient earns as a result of a subaward you make under this award.


2. Includes, but is not limited to, income earned under this award from:


a. Fees for services performed;


b. The use or rental of real or personal property acquired under any Federal award and currently administered under this award;


c. The sale of commodities or items fabricated under this award;


d. License fees and royalties on patents and copyrights; and


e. Payments of principal and interest on loans made with Federal award funds.


3. Does not include for purposes of this award any:


a. Interest earned on advance payments, disposition of which is addressed in FMS Article II;


b. Proceeds from the sale of real property, equipment or supplies, which is addressed in PROP Articles III and IV;


c. Rebates, credits, discounts, and interest earned on any of them; and


d. Governmental revenues, including any taxes, special assessments, levies, fines and similar revenues you raise.


*Section B. Encouragement to earn program income.* You are encouraged to earn program income under this award when doing so does not interfere with the program or project the award supports.


*Section C. Costs of generating program income.* You may deduct costs incidental to the generation of program income from the amount that you use in accordance with Section E of this Article, as long as those costs are not charged to this award (which includes their being counted toward any cost sharing or matching you are required to provide).


*Section D. License fees and royalties.* You have no obligations to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned under this award from license fees and royalties for patents or patent applications, copyrights, trademarks, or inventions developed or produced under the award.


*Section E. Use of program income.*

1. You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award to increase the amount of the award (the sum of the Federal share and any cost sharing or matching you are required to provide), thereby increasing the amount budgeted for the project. The program income must be used for the purposes and under the terms and conditions of the award.


2. Your use of the additional funding is subject to the terms and conditions of this award, including:


a. FMS Article II concerning your use of balances of program income before you request additional funds from us; and


b. FMS Article III concerning allowability of costs for which the funds may be used.


3. You must report on each Federal Financial Report (SF-425) that you submit in accordance with REP Article II the program income that you earn and any that you use during the reporting period covered by that SF-425.


*Section F. Duration of accountability for program income.* The requirements concerning disposition of program income in Section E of this Article apply only to program income you earn during the period of performance. There are no requirements under this award applicable to program income you earn after the end of the period of performance.




