# ยง 25.283   End-of-life disposal.

(a) *Geostationary orbit space stations.* Unless otherwise explicitly specified in an authorization, a space station authorized to operate in the geostationary satellite orbit under this part shall be relocated, at the end of its useful life, barring catastrophic failure of satellite components, to an orbit with a perigee with an altitude of no less than:


(b) *Geostationary orbit space station end of life operations.* A space station authorized to operate in the geostationary satellite orbit under this part may operate using its authorized tracking, telemetry and control frequencies, and outside of its assigned orbital location, for the purpose of removing the satellite from the geostationary satellite orbit at the end of its useful life, provided that the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section are met, and on the condition that the space station's tracking, telemetry and control transmissions are planned so as to avoid electrical interference to other space stations, and coordinated with any potentially affected satellite networks.


(c) *All space stations.* Upon completion of any relocation authorized by paragraph (b) of this section, or any relocation at end-of-life specified in an authorization, or upon a spacecraft otherwise completing its authorized mission, a space station licensee shall ensure, unless prevented by technical failures beyond its control, that stored energy sources on board the satellite are discharged, by venting excess propellant, discharging batteries, relieving pressure vessels, or other appropriate measures.


(d) *Applicability of minimum perigee for geostationary orbit space stations.* The minimum perigee requirement of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to space stations launched prior to March 18, 2002.


(e) *Low-Earth orbit space stations.* For space stations ending their mission in or passing through the low-Earth orbit region below 2000 km altitude and planning disposal through uncontrolled atmospheric re-entry, disposal must be completed as soon as practicable following end of mission, and no later than five years after the end of the mission. For purposes of this paragraph (e), *end of mission* is defined as the time at which the individual spacecraft is no longer capable of conducting collision avoidance maneuvers. For spacecraft without collision avoidance capabilities, *end of mission* is defined as the point in which the individual spacecraft has completed its primary mission.



---

[N] [69 FR 54588, Sept. 9, 2004, as amended at 78 FR 8431, Feb. 6, 2013; 81 FR 55349, Aug. 18, 2016; 89 FR 65223, Aug. 9, 2024]






