# § 300.28   FAD restrictions.

(a) *FAD identification requirements for purse seine vessels.* (1) For each FAD deployed or modified on or after January 1, 2017, in the IATTC Convention Area, the vessel owner or operator must either: obtain a unique code from HMS Branch; or use an existing unique identifier associated with the FAD (*e.g.,* the manufacturer identification code for the attached buoy).


(2) U.S. purse seine vessel owners and operators shall ensure the characters of the unique code or unique identifier be marked indelibly at least five centimeters in height on the upper portion of the attached radio or satellite buoy in a location that does not cover the solar cells used to power the equipment. For FADs without attached radio or satellite buoys, the characters shall be on the uppermost or emergent top portion of the FAD. The vessel owner or operator shall ensure the marking is visible at all times during daylight. In circumstances where the on-board observer is unable to view the code, the captain or crew shall assist the observer (*e.g.,* by providing the FAD identification code to the observer).






(b) *Activating FADs for purse seine vessels.* When deploying a FAD in the IATTC Convention Area, a vessel owner, operator, or crew must activate the satellite buoy while the FAD is onboard the purse seine vessel and before it is deployed in the water.


(c) *Restrictions on Active FADs for purse seine vessels.* U.S. vessel owners and operators of purse-seine vessels with the following well volume in cubic meters (m
3) must not have more than the following number of Active FADs per vessel in the IATTC Convention Area at any one time during the following years.


(d) *Restrictions on satellite buoy deactivations.* A vessel owner or operator that deactivates a satellite buoy attached to a FAD must comply with the reporting requirements for buoy deactivations in § 300.22(c)(3). A U.S. vessel owner or operator shall only deactivate a satellite buoy attached to a FAD that was activated in the IATTC Convention Area in the following circumstances:


(1) Complete loss of signal reception;


(2) Beaching;


(3) Appropriation of a FAD by a third party;


(4) Temporarily during a selected closure period;


(5) For being outside of the area between the meridians 150° W and 100° W, and the parallels 8° N and 10° S; the area between the meridian 100° W and the coast of the American continent and the parallels 5° N and 15° S; or


(6) Transfer of ownership.


(e) *Restrictions on satellite buoy reactivations.* A vessel owner or operator that reactivates a satellite buoy must comply with the reporting requirements for satellite buoy reactivations in § 300.22(c)(4). A U.S. vessel owner or operator shall only remotely reactivate a satellite buoy at sea that was activated in the IATTC Convention Area in the following circumstances:


(1) To assist in the recovery of a beached FAD;


(2) After a temporary deactivation during the closure period; or


(3) Transfer of ownership while the FAD is at sea.






(f) *Restrictions on FAD deployments, removals, and recovery.* (1) U.S. vessel owners, operators, and crew of purse seine vessels of class size 4-6 (more than 182 metric tons carrying capacity) must not deploy a FAD during a period of 15 days prior to the start of the selected closure period described in § 300.25(e)(1).


(2) During the 15 days prior to the start of the closure period selected by the vessel per § 300.25(e)(1), U.S. vessel owners, operators, and crew of purse seine vessels of class size 6 (greater than 363 metric tons carrying capacity) must remove from the water a number of FADs equal to the number of FADs set upon by the vessel during that same 15 day period.


(3) U.S. vessel owners and operators may recover FADs for final disposal or recycling. Recovery activities must be limited to the collection of FADs for final disposal or recycling and may not include any type of maintenance or adjustment on deployed FADs.


(g) *Non-entangling FAD materials.* Beginning January 1, 2025, U.S. purse seine vessel owners and operators must ensure that the design and construction of any FAD to be deployed or redeployed (*i.e.,* placed in the water) in the IATTC Convention Area uses only non-entangling FAD materials.


(h) *Biodegradable FAD materials.* In addition to complying with the requirement to use non-entangling materials specified in paragraph (g) of this section, vessel owners and operators must ensure that the design and construction of any FAD to be deployed or redeployed in the IATTC Convention Area meets the following specifications:


(1) Beginning January 1, 2026, all FADs deployed or redeployed in the IATTC Convention Area must be designed and constructed according to one of the following sets of specifications:


(i) The surface part of the FAD must be made of fully biodegradable materials, except for flotation components (*e.g.,* plastic buoys, foam, purse-seine corks), whereas the subsurface part of the FAD may contain non-biodegradable materials (*e.g.,* synthetic raffia, metallic frame, plastic floats, nylon ropes); or


(ii) The subsurface part of the FAD must be made of fully biodegradable materials, whereas the surface part and any flotation components (*e.g.,* plastic buoys, foam, purse-seine corks) of the FAD may contain non-biodegradable materials (*e.g.,* synthetic raffia, metallic frame, plastic floats, nylon ropes); or


(iii) The surface part, except for flotation components (*e.g.,* plastic buoys, foam, purse-seine corks), and subsurface part must be made of fully biodegradable materials. Non-biodegradable materials, in particular nylon ropes, can be used exclusively to strengthen the structure of the floating or underwater component of the FAD.


(2) Beginning January 1, 2029, all FADs deployed or redeployed in the IATTC Convention Area must be made of fully biodegradable materials, except for flotation components (*e.g.,* plastic buoys, foam, purse seine corks), which may be made of non-biodegradable material. Non-biodegradable materials, in particular nylon ropes, can be used exclusively to strengthen the structure of the floating or underwater component of the FAD.


(3) Restrictions on biodegradable FAD materials set forth in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply to satellite buoys that are attached to FADs in order to track them.





---

[N] [83 FR 15510, Apr. 11, 2018, as amended at 83 FR 62734, Dec. 6, 2018; 87 FR 40741, July 8, 2022; 89 FR 96909, Dec. 6, 2024]






