# § 1.78   Biological products, HCT/Ps, and related drugs and medical devices.

In addition to the data required to be submitted in § 1.72, an ACE filer must submit the following information at the time of filing entry in ACE for biological products, HCT/Ps, and related drugs and medical devices regulated by the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.


(a) *Product name* which identifies the article being imported or offered for import by the name commonly associated with that article including the established name, trade name, brand name, proper name, or product description if the article does not have an established name, trade name, brand name, or proper name.


(b) *HCT/P registration and affirmation.* (1) For an HCT/P regulated solely under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and the regulations in part 1271 of this chapter that is manufactured by an establishment that is required to be registered under part 1271 of this chapter, the HCT/P Registration Number; and


(2) For an HCT/P regulated solely under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and the regulations in part 1271 of this chapter, an Affirmation of Compliance with the applicable requirements of part 1271 of this chapter.


(c) *Licensed biological products.* For a biological product that is the subject of an approved biologics license application under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act, the Submission Tracking Number of the biologics license application and/or the Biologics License Number.


(d) *Drug registration.* For a drug intended for human use, the Drug Registration Number if the foreign establishment where the human drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States is required to register the drug under part 207 or part 607 of this chapter as applicable. For the purposes of this section, the Drug Registration Number that must be submitted at the time of entry in ACE is the unique facility identifier of the foreign establishment where the human drug was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed before being imported or offered for import into the United States. The unique facility identifier is the identifier submitted by a registrant in accordance with the system specified under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. 


(e) *Drug application number.* For a drug intended for human use that is the subject of an approved application under section 505(b) or 505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the number of the new drug application or the abbreviated new drug application.


(f) *Investigational new drug application number.* For a drug intended for human use that is the subject of an investigational new drug application under section 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the number of the investigational new drug application.


(g) *Medical device registration and listing.* For a medical device subject to the registration and listing procedures contained in part 807 of this chapter, the Registration Number for Foreign Manufacturers, Foreign Exporters, and/or Domestic Manufacturers, and the Device Listing Number, required under section 510 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and part 807 of this chapter.


(h) *Investigational devices.* For an investigational medical device that has an investigational device exemption granted under section 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Investigational Device Exemption Number. For an investigational medical device being imported or offered for import for use in a nonsignificant risk or exempt study, “NSR” to be entered in the Affirmation of Compliance for the “investigational device exemption” that identifies the device as being used in a nonsignificant risk or exempt study.


(i) *Medical device premarket number.* For a medical device that has one, the Premarket Number. This is the Premarket Approval Number for those medical devices that have received premarket approval under section 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Product Development Protocol Number for those medical devices for which FDA has declared the product development protocol complete under section 515(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the De Novo number for those medical devices granted marketing authorization under section 513(f)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; the Premarket Notification Number for those medical devices that received premarket clearance under section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act; or the Humanitarian Device Exemption Number for those medical devices for which an exemption has been granted under section 520(m) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


(j) *Medical device component.* If applicable for a medical device, an affirmation identifying that the article being imported or offered for import is a component that requires further processing or inclusion into a finished medical device.



---

[N] [81 FR 85870, Nov. 29, 2016, as mended at 86 FR 17060, Apr. 1, 2021]




