# § 63.1349   Performance testing requirements.

(a) You must document performance test results in complete test reports that contain the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section, as well as all other relevant information. As described in § 63.7(c)(2)(i), you must make available to the Administrator prior to testing, if requested, the site-specific test plan to be followed during performance testing. For purposes of determining exhaust gas flow rate to the atmosphere from an alkali bypass stack or a coal mill stack, you must either install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the exhaust gas flow rate according to the requirements in paragraphs § 63.1350(n)(1) through (10) of this subpart or use the maximum design exhaust gas flow rate. For purposes of determining the combined emissions from kilns equipped with an alkali bypass or that exhaust kiln gases to a coal mill that exhausts through a separate stack, instead of installing a CEMS on the alkali bypass stack or coal mill stack, you may use the results of the initial and subsequent performance test to demonstrate compliance with the relevant emissions limit.


(1) A brief description of the process and the air pollution control system;


(2) Sampling location description(s);


(3) A description of sampling and analytical procedures and any modifications to standard procedures;


(4) Test results;


(5) Quality assurance procedures and results;


(6) Records of operating conditions during the performance test, preparation of standards, and calibration procedures;


(7) Raw data sheets for field sampling and field and laboratory analyses;


(8) Documentation of calculations;


(9) All data recorded and used to establish parameters for monitoring; and


(10) Any other information required by the performance test method.


(b)(1) *PM emissions tests.* The owner or operator of a kiln and clinker cooler subject to limitations on PM emissions shall demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a performance test using Method 5 or Method 5I at appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. You must also monitor continuous performance through use of a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS).


(i) For your PM CPMS, you will establish a site-specific operating limit. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You will use the PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with your operating limit. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.


(A) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp or digital signal output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps or the monitors digital equivalent.


(B) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to three times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to three times your allowable emission limit.


(C) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp or digital output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (*e.g.,* average all your PM CPMS output values for three corresponding Method 5I test runs).


(ii) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (iv) of this section. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test at least annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.


(iii) If the average of your three Method 5 or 5I compliance test runs is below 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 or 5I compliance test with the procedures in (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Determine your PM CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:


(*1*) Zero point data for in-situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.


(*2*) Zero point data for extractive instruments should be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.


(*3*) The zero point may also be established by performing manual reference method measurements when the flue gas is free of PM emissions or contains very low PM concentrations (*e.g.,* when your process is not operating, but the fans are operating or your source is combusting only natural gas) and plotting these with the compliance data to find the zero intercept.


(*4*) If none of the steps in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.


(B) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average in milliamps or digital equivalent, and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs, using equation 3.


(C) With your instrument zero expressed in milliamps or a digital value, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp or digital signal value, and your three run PM compliance test average, determine a relationship of lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal value with Equation 4.


(D) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal value from Equation 4 in Equation 5, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.


(iv) If the average of your three PM compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your PM emission limit you must determine your operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp or digital equivalent output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using Equation 6.


(v) To determine continuous operating compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating, and use all the PM CPMS data for calculations when the source is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps or the digital equivalent) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 7 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.


(vi) For each performance test, conduct at least three separate test runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. Conduct each test run to collect a minimum sample volume of 2 dscm for determining compliance with a new source limit and 1 dscm for determining compliance with an existing source limit. Calculate the time weighted average of the results from three consecutive runs, including applicable sources as required by paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, to determine compliance. You need not determine the particulate matter collected in the impingers “back half” of the Method 5 or Method 5I particulate sampling train to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards of this subpart. This shall not preclude the permitting authority from requiring a determination of the “back half” for other purposes. For kilns with inline raw mills, testing must be conducted while the raw mill is on and while the raw mill is off. If the exhaust streams of a kiln with an inline raw mill and a clinker cooler are comingled, then the comingled exhaust stream must be tested with the raw mill on and the raw mill off.


(vii) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (*e.g.* beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value or digital equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp or digital equivalent signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.


(viii) When there is an alkali bypass and/or an inline coal mill with a separate stack associated with a kiln, the main exhaust and alkali bypass and/or inline coal mill must be tested simultaneously and the combined emission rate of PM from the kiln and alkali bypass and/or inline coal mill must be computed for each run using Equation 8 of this section.


(ix) The owner or operator of a kiln with an in-line raw mill and subject to limitations on PM emissions shall demonstrate initial compliance by conducting separate performance tests while the raw mill is under normal operating conditions and while the raw mill is not operating, and calculate the time weighted average emissions. The operating limit will then be determined using 63.1349(b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) *Opacity tests.* If you are subject to limitations on opacity under this subpart, you must conduct opacity tests in accordance with Method 9 of appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter. The duration of the Method 9 performance test must be 3 hours (30 6-minute averages), except that the duration of the Method 9 performance test may be reduced to 1 hour if the conditions of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section apply. For batch processes that are not run for 3-hour periods or longer, compile observations totaling 3 hours when the unit is operating.


(i) There are no individual readings greater than 10 percent opacity;


(ii) There are no more than three readings of 10 percent for the first 1-hour period.


(3) *D/F Emissions Tests.* If you are subject to limitations on D/F emissions under this subpart, you must conduct a performance test using Method 23 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. If your kiln or in-line kiln/raw mill is equipped with an alkali bypass, you must conduct simultaneous performance tests of the kiln or in-line kiln/raw mill exhaust and the alkali bypass. You may conduct a performance test of the alkali bypass exhaust when the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is operating or not operating.


(i) Each performance test must consist of three separate runs conducted under representative conditions. The duration of each run must be at least 3 hours, and the sample volume for each run must be at least 2.5 dscm (90 dscf).


(ii) The temperature at the inlet to the kiln or in-line kiln/raw mill PMCD, and, where applicable, the temperature at the inlet to the alkali bypass PMCD must be continuously recorded during the period of the Method 23 test, and the continuous temperature record(s) must be included in the performance test report.


(iii) Average temperatures must be calculated for each run of the performance test.


(iv) The run average temperature must be calculated for each run, and the average of the run average temperatures must be determined and included in the performance test report and will determine the applicable temperature limit in accordance with § 63.1346(b).


(v)(A) If sorbent injection is used for D/F control, you must record the rate of sorbent injection to the kiln exhaust, and where applicable, the rate of sorbent injection to the alkali bypass exhaust, continuously during the period of the Method 23 test in accordance with the conditions in § 63.1350(m)(9), and include the continuous injection rate record(s) in the performance test report. Determine the sorbent injection rate parameters in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section.


(B) Include the brand and type of sorbent used during the performance test in the performance test report.


(C) Maintain a continuous record of either the carrier gas flow rate or the carrier gas pressure drop for the duration of the performance test. If the carrier gas flow rate is used, determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the carrier gas flow rate monitoring system according to the procedures in appendix A to part 75 of this chapter. If the carrier gas pressure drop is used, determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the carrier gas pressure drop monitoring system according to the procedures in § 63.1350(m)(6).


(vi) Calculate the run average sorbent injection rate for each run and determine and include the average of the run average injection rates in the performance test report and determine the applicable injection rate limit in accordance with § 63.1346(c)(1).


(4) *THC emissions test.* (i) If you are subject to limitations on THC emissions, you must operate a CEMS in accordance with the requirements in § 63.1350(i). For the purposes of conducting the accuracy and quality assurance evaluations for CEMS, the THC span value (as propane) is 50 to 60 ppmvw and the reference method (RM) is Method 25A of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.


(ii) Use the THC CEMS to conduct the initial compliance test for the first 30 kiln operating days of kiln operation after the compliance date of the rule. See § 63.1348(a).


(iii) If kiln gases are diverted through an alkali bypass or to a coal mill and exhausted through a separate stack, you must calculate a kiln-specific THC limit using Equation 9:


(iv) THC must be measured either upstream of the coal mill or the coal mill stack.


(v) Instead of conducting the performance test specified in paragraph (b)(4)of this section, you may conduct a performance test to determine emissions of total organic HAP by following the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.


(5) *Mercury Emissions Tests.* If you are subject to limitations on mercury emissions, you must operate a mercury CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(k). The initial compliance test must be based on the first 30 kiln operating days in which the affected source operates using a mercury CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system after the compliance date of the rule. See § 63.1348(a).


(i) If you are using a mercury CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system, you must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the exhaust gas flow rate to the atmosphere according to the requirements in § 63.1350(k)(5).


(ii) Calculate the emission rate using Equation 10 of this section:


(6) *HCl emissions tests.* For a source subject to limitations on HCl emissions you must conduct performance testing by one of the following methods:


(i)(A) If the source is equipped with a wet scrubber, tray tower or dry scrubber, you must conduct performance testing using Method 321 of appendix A to this part unless you have installed a CEMS that meets the requirements § 63.1350(l)(1). For kilns with inline raw mills, testing must be conducted for the raw mill on and raw mill off conditions.


(B) You must establish site specific parameter limits by using the CPMS required in § 63.1350(l)(1). For a wet scrubber or tray tower, measure and record the pressure drop across the scrubber and/or liquid flow rate and pH in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during the HCl test. Compute and record the 24-hour average pressure drop, pH, and average scrubber water flow rate for each sampling run in which the applicable emissions limit is met. For a dry scrubber, measure and record the sorbent injection rate in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during the HCl test. Compute and record the 24-hour average sorbent injection rate and average sorbent injection rate for each sampling run in which the applicable emissions limit is met.


(ii)(A) If the source is not controlled by a wet scrubber, tray tower or dry sorbent injection system, you must operate a CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(1). See § 63.1348(a).


(B) The initial compliance test must be based on the 30 kiln operating days that occur after the compliance date of this rule in which the affected source operates using an HCl CEMS. Hourly HCl concentration data must be obtained according to § 63.1350(l).


(iii) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section, you may choose to monitor SO_2_ emissions using a CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(3). You must establish an SO_2_ operating limit equal to the average recorded during the HCl stack test where the HCl stack test run result demonstrates compliance with the emission limit. This operating limit will apply only for demonstrating HCl compliance.


(iv) If kiln gases are diverted through an alkali bypass or to a coal mill and exhausted through a separate stack, you must calculate a kiln-specific HCl limit using Equation 11:


(v) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator may demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a performance test using Method 321 of appendix A to this part. You must also monitor continuous performance through use of an HCl CPMS according to paragraphs (b)(6)(v)(A) through (H) of this section. For kilns with inline raw mills, compliance testing and monitoring HCl to establish the site specific operating limit must be conducted during both raw mill on and raw mill off conditions.


(A) For your HCl CPMS, you must establish a 30 kiln operating day site-specific operating limit. If your HCl performance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be less than 75 percent of your emission limit (2.25 ppmvd @7% O_2_), you must use the time weighted average HCl CPMS indicated value recorded during the HCl compliance test (typically measured as ppmvw HCl at stack O_2_ concentration, but a dry, oxygen corrected value would also suffice), your HCl instrument zero output value, and the time weighted average HCl result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your HCl compliance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit (2.25 ppmvd @7% O_2_), you must use the time weighted average HCl CPMS indicated value recorded during the HCl compliance test as your operating limit. You must use the HCl CPMS indicated signal data to demonstrate continuous compliance with your operating limit.


(*1*) Your HCl CPMS must provide a ppm HCl concentration output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of indicated ppm. The instrument signal may be in ppmvw or ppmvd and the signal may be a measurement of HCl at in-stack concentration or a corrected oxygen concentration. Once the relationship between the indicated output of the HCl CPMS and the reference method test results is established, the HCl CPMS instrument measurement basis (ppmvw or ppmvd, or oxygen correction basis) must not be altered. Likewise, any setting that impacts the HCl CPMS indicated HCl response must remain fixed after the site-specific operating limit is set.


(*2*) Your HCl CPMS operating range must be capable of reading HCl concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to 125 percent of the highest expected value during mill off operation. If your HCl CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading an indicated HCl concentration from zero to 10 ppm.


(*3*) During the initial performance test of a kiln with an inline raw mill, or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the HCl limit, record and average the indicated ppm HCl output values from the HCl CPMS for each of the six periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (*e.g.,* average each of your HCl CPMS output values for six corresponding Method 321 test runs). With the average values of the six test runs, calculate the average of the three mill on test runs and the average of the three mill off test runs. Calculate the time weighted result using the average of the three mill on tests and the average of the three mill off tests and the previous annual ratio of mill on/mill off operations. Kilns without an inline raw mill will conduct three compliance tests and calculate the average monitor output values corresponding to these three test runs and not use time weighted values to determine their site specific operating limit.


(B) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) or (iii) of this section. If your HCl performance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit, kilns with inline raw mills will use the time weighted average indicated HCl ppm concentration CPMS value recorded during the HCl compliance test, the zero value output from your HCl CPMS, and the time weighted average HCl result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. Kilns without inline raw mills will not use a time weighted average value to establish their operating limit. If your time weighted HCl compliance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the time weighted HCl CPMS indicated ppm value recorded during the HCl compliance test to establish your operating limit. Kilns without inline raw mills will not use time weighted compliance test results to make this determination. You must verify an existing operating limit or establish a new operating limit for each kiln, after each repeated performance test.


(C) If the average of your three Method 321 compliance test runs (for kilns without an inline raw mill) or the time weighted average of your six Method 321 compliance test runs (for an kiln with an inline raw mill) is below 75 percent of your HCl emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of the average HCl CPMS indicated ppm to the Method 321 test average HCl concentration using the HCl CPMS instrument zero, the average HCl CPMS indicated values corresponding to the three (for kilns without inline raw mills) or time weighted HCl CPMS indicated values corresponding to the six (for kilns with inline raw mills) compliance test runs, and the average HCl concentration (for kilns without raw mills) or average time weighted HCl concentration (for kilns with inline raw mills) from the Method 321 compliance test with the procedures in paragraphs (b)(6)(v)(C)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section.


(*1*) Determine your HCl CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:


(*i*) Zero point data for in situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.


(*ii*) If neither of the steps in paragraphs (b)(6)(v)(C)(*1*)(*i*) through (*ii*) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.


(*2*) If your facility does not have an inline raw mill you will determine your HCl CPMS indicated average in HCl ppm, and the average of your corresponding three HCl compliance test runs, using equation 11a.


(*3*) You will determine your HCl CPMS indicated average in HCl ppm, and the average of your corresponding HCl compliance test runs, using equation 11b. If you have an inline raw mill, use this same equation to calculate a second three-test average for your mill off CPMS and compliance test data.


(*4*) With your instrument zero expressed in ppm, your average HCl CPMS ppm value, and your HCl compliance test average, determine a relationship of performance test HCl (as ppmvd @7% O_2_) concentration per HCl CPMS indicated ppm with Equation 11c.


(*5*) Determine your source specific 30 kiln operating day operating limit using HC1 CPMS indicated value from Equation 11c in Equation 11d, below. This sets your operating limit at the HC1 CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.


(D) If the average of your HCl compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your HCl emission limit (2.25 ppmvd@7% O_2_) you must determine your operating limit by averaging the HCl CPMS output corresponding to your HCl performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using Equation 11e.


(E) To determine continuous compliance with the operating limit, you must record the HCl CPMS indicated output data for all periods when the process is operating and use all the HCl CPMS data for calculations when the source is not out of control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the HCl CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 kiln operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 11f to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.


(F) If you exceed the 30 kiln operating day operating limit, you must evaluate the control system operation and re-set the operating limit.


(G) The owner or operator of a kiln with an inline raw mill and subject to limitations on HCl emissions must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting separate performance tests while the raw mill is on and while the raw mill is off. Using the fraction of time the raw mill is on calculate your HCl CPMS limit as a weighted average of the HCl CPMS indicated values measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing using Equation 11g.


(H) Paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section expires on July 25, 2017 at which time the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with paragraphs (b)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii).


(7) *Total Organic HAP Emissions Tests.* Instead of conducting the performance test specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, you may conduct a performance test to determine emissions of total organic HAP by following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Use Method 320 of appendix A to this part, Method 18 of Appendix A of part 60, ASTM D6348-03 or a combination to determine emissions of total organic HAP. Each performance test must consist of three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the representative performance conditions in accordance with § 63.7(e). Each run must be conducted for at least 1 hour.


(ii) At the same time that you are conducting the performance test for total organic HAP, you must also determine a site-specific THC emissions limit by operating a THC CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(j). The duration of the performance test must be at least 3 hours and the average THC concentration (as calculated from the recorded output) during the 3-hour test must be calculated. You must establish your THC operating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(7)(vii) and (viii) of this section. It is permissible to extend the testing time of the organic HAP performance test if you believe extended testing is required to adequately capture organic HAP and/or THC variability over time.


(iii) If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must use the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off and calculate this limit as a weighted average of the THC levels measured during three raw mill on and three raw mill off tests.


(iv) If your organic HAP emissions are below 75 percent of the organic HAP standard and you determine your operating limit with paragraph (b)(7)(vii) of this section your THC CEMS must be calibrated and operated on a measurement scale no greater than 180 ppmvw, as carbon, or 60 ppmvw as propane.


(v) If your kiln has an inline coal mill and/or an alkali bypass with separate stacks, you are required to measure and account for oHAP emissions from their separate stacks. You are required to measure oHAP at the coal mill inlet or outlet and you must also measure oHAP at the alkali bypass outlet. You must then calculate a flow weighted average oHAP concentration for all emission sources including the inline coal mill and the alkali bypass.


(vi) Your THC CEMS measurement scale must be capable of reading THC concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to two times your highest THC emissions average determined during your performance test, including mill on or mill off operation. Note: This may require the use of a dual range instrument to meet this requirement and paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section.


(vii) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(viii) and (ix) of this section. If your organic HAP performance test demonstrates your average organic HAP emission levels are below 75 percent of your emission limit (9 ppmv) you will use the average THC value recorded during the organic HAP performance test, and the average total organic HAP result of your performance test to establish your operating limit. If your organic HAP compliance test results demonstrate that your average organic HAP emission levels are at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, your operating limit is established as the average THC value recorded during the organic HAP performance test. You must establish a new operating limit after each performance test. You must repeat the performance test no later than 30 months following your last performance test and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.


(viii) If the average organic HAP results for your three Method 18 and/or Method 320 performance test runs are below 75 percent of your organic HAP emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of THC CEMS signal to the organic HAP concentration using the average THC CEMS value corresponding to the three organic HAP compliance test runs and the average organic HAP total concentration from the Method 18 and/or Method 320 performance test runs with the procedures in (b)(7)(viii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) Determine the THC CEMS average value in ppmvw, and the average of your corresponding three total organic HAP compliance test runs, using Equation 12.


(B) You must use your 3-run average THC CEMS value and your 3-run average organic HAP concentration from your Method 18 and/or Method 320 compliance tests to determine the operating limit. Use equation 13 to determine your operating limit in units of ppmvw THC, as propane.


(ix) If the average of your three organic HAP performance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your organic HAP emission limit, you must determine your operating limit using Equation 14 by averaging the THC CEMS output values corresponding to your three organic HAP performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit. If your new THC CEMS value is below your current operating limit, you may opt to retain your current operating limit, but you must still submit all performance test and THC CEMS data according to the reporting requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(x) If your kiln has an inline kiln/raw mill, you must conduct separate performance tests while the raw mill is operating (“mill on”) and while the raw mill is not operating (“mill off”). Using the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off, calculate this limit as a weighted average of the THC levels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing with Equation 15.


(xi) To determine continuous compliance with the THC operating limit, you must record the THC CEMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the THC CEMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the THC CEMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 16 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.


(xii) Use EPA Method 18 or Method 320 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine organic HAP emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must conduct three separate test runs with the raw mill on, and three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur with the mill off. Conduct each Method 18 test run to collect a minimum target sample equivalent to three times the method detection limit. Calculate the average of the results from three runs to determine compliance.


(xiii) If the THC level exceeds by 10 percent or more your site-specific THC emissions limit, you must


(A) As soon as possible but no later than 30 days after the exceedance, conduct an inspection and take corrective action to return the THC CEMS measurements to within the established value; and


(B) Within 90 days of the exceedance or at the time of the 30 month compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct another performance test to determine compliance with the organic HAP limit and to verify or re-establish your site-specific THC emissions limit.


(8) HCl Emissions Tests with SO_2_ Monitoring. If you choose to monitor SO_2_ emissions using a CEMS to demonstrate HCl compliance, follow the procedures in (b)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section and in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(3). You must establish an SO_2_ operating limit equal to the average recorded during the HCl stack test. This operating limit will apply only for demonstrating HCl compliance.


(i) Use Method 321 of appendix A to this part to determine emissions of HCl. Each performance test must consist of three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the representative performance conditions in accordance with § 63.7(e). Each run must be conducted for at least one hour.


(ii) At the same time that you are conducting the performance test for HCl, you must also determine a site-specific SO_2_ emissions limit by operating an SO_2_ CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l). The duration of the performance test must be three hours and the average SO_2_ concentration (as calculated from the average output) during the 3-hour test must be calculated. You must establish your SO_2_ operating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(8)(vii) and (viii) of this section.


(iii) If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must use the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off and calculate this limit as a weighted average of the SO_2_ levels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off testing.


(iv) Your SO_2_ CEMS must be calibrated and operated according to the requirements of § 60.63(f).


(v) Your SO_2_ CEMS measurement scale must be capable of reading SO_2_ concentrations consistent with the requirements of § 60.63(f), including mill on or mill off operation.


(vi) If your kiln has an inline kiln/raw mill, you must conduct separate performance tests while the raw mill is operating (“mill on”) and while the raw mill is not operating (“mill off”). Using the fraction of time that the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off, calculate this limit as a weighted average of the SO_2_ levels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing with Equation 17.


(vii) If the average of your three HCl compliance test runs is below 75 percent of your HCl emission limit, you may as a compliance alternative, calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of SO_2_ CEMS signal to your HCl concentration corrected to 7 percent O_2_ by using the SO_2_ CEMS instrument zero, the average SO_2_ CEMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average HCl concentration from the HCl compliance test with the procedures in (b)(8)(vii)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) Determine your SO_2_ CEMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:


(*1*) Zero point data for in-situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.


(*2*) Zero point data for extractive instruments may be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.


(*3*) The zero point may also be established by performing probe-flood introduction of high purity nitrogen or certified zero air free of SO_2._

(*4*) If none of the steps in paragraphs (b)(8)(vii)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.


(B) Determine your SO_2_ CEMS instrument average ppmv, and the average of your corresponding three HCl compliance test runs, using Equation 18.


(C) With your instrument zero expressed in ppmv, your SO_2_ CEMS three run average expressed in ppmv, and your 3-run HCl compliance test average in ppmvd, corrected to 7 percent O_2_, determine a relationship of ppmvd HCl corrected to 7 percent O_2_ per ppmv SO_2_ with Equation 19.


(D) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using ppm HCl corrected to 7 percent O_2_ per ppm SO_2_ value from Equation 19 in Equation 20, below. This sets your operating limit at the SO_2_ CEMS ppm value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.


(viii) To determine continuous compliance with the SO_2_ operating limit, you must record the SO_2_ CEMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the SO_2_ CEMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the SO_2_ CEMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 21 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.


(ix) Use EPA Method 321 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine HCl emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must conduct three separate test runs with the raw mill on, and three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur with the mill off.


(x) If the SO_2_ level exceeds by 10 percent or more your site-specific SO_2_ emissions limit, you must:


(A) As soon as possible but no later than 30 days after the exceedance, conduct an inspection and take corrective action to return the SO_2_ CEMS measurements to within the established value;


(B) Within 90 days of the exceedance or at the time of the periodic compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct another performance test to determine compliance with the HCl limit and to verify or re-establish your site-specific SO_2_ emissions limit.


(c) *Performance test frequency.* Except as provided in § 63.1348(b), performance tests are required at regular intervals for affected sources that are subject to a dioxin, organic HAP or HCl emissions limit. Performance tests required every 30 months must be completed no more than 31 calendar months after the previous performance test except where that specific pollutant is monitored using CEMS; performance tests required every 12 months must be completed no more than 13 calendar months after the previous performance test.


(d) [Reseved]


(e) *Conditions of performance tests.* Conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.



---

[N] [75 FR 55057, Sept. 9, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 10040, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44781, July 27, 2015; 80 FR 54729, Sept. 11, 2015; 81 FR 48359, July 25, 2016; 82 FR 28565, June 23, 2017; 82 FR 39673, Aug. 22, 2017; 83 FR 35132, July 25, 2018; 85 FR 63418, Oct. 7, 2020]




