# § 403.205   Medicare supplemental policy.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, Medicare supplemental (or Medigap) policy means a health insurance policy or other health benefit plan that—


(1) A private entity offers to a Medicare beneficiary; and


(2) Is primarily designed, or is advertised, marketed, or otherwise purported to provide payment for expenses incurred for services and items that are not reimbursed under the Medicare program because of deductibles, coinsurance, or other limitations under Medicare.


(b) The term policy includes both policy form and policy as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(1) *Policy form.* Policy form is the form of health insurance contract that is approved by and on file with the State agency for the regulation of insurance.


(2) *Policy.* Policy is the contract—


(i) Issued under the policy form; and


(ii) Held by the policy holder.


(c) If the policy otherwise meets the definition in this section, a Medicare supplemental policy includes-


(1) An individual policy;


(2) A group policy;


(3) A rider attached to an individual or group policy; or


(4) As of January 1, 2006, a stand-alone limited health benefit plan or policy that supplements Medicare benefits and is sold primarily to Medicare beneficiaries.


(d) Any rider attached to a Medicare supplemental policy becomes an integral part of the basic policy.


(e) Medicare supplemental policy does not include a Medicare Advantage plan, a Prescription Drug Plan under Part D, or any of the other types of health insurance policies or health benefit plans that are excluded from the definition of a Medicare supplemental policy in section 1882(g)(1) of the Act.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005]




