# § 1322.29   Family caregiver support services.

(a) Family caregiver support services are community-based interventions set forth in Title VI, part C of the Act, which meet standards set forth by the Assistant Secretary for Aging and which may be informed through the use of an evidence-informed or evidence-based caregiver assessment, including:


(1) Information to caregivers about available services via public education;


(2) Assistance to caregivers in gaining access to the services through:


(i) Individual information and assistance; or


(ii) Case management or care coordination.


(3) Individual counseling, organization of support groups, and caregiver training to assist the caregivers in those areas in which they provide support, including health, nutrition, complex medical care, and financial literacy, and in making decisions and solving problems relating to their caregiving roles;


(4) Respite care to enable caregivers to be temporarily relieved from their caregiving responsibilities; and


(5) Supplemental services, on a limited basis, to complement the care provided by caregivers. A Tribal organization or Hawaiian Native grantee shall define “limited basis” for supplemental services and may consider limiting units, episodes or expenditure amounts when making this determination.


(b) The Title VI Native American Family Caregiver Support Program is intended to serve unpaid family caregivers and to provide services to caregivers, not to the people for whom they care. Its primary purpose is not to pay for care for an elder. However, respite care may be provided to an unpaid family caregiver.


(c) To provide services listed in paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) of this section to caregivers of older Native Americans or of individuals of any age with Alzheimer's disease or a related disorder, the individual for whom they are caring must be determined to be functionally impaired because the individual:


(1) Is unable to perform at least two activities of daily living without substantial assistance, including verbal reminding, physical cueing, or supervision;


(2) At the option of the Tribal organization or Hawaiian Native grantee, is unable to perform at least three such activities without such assistance; or


(3) Due to a cognitive or other mental impairment, requires substantial supervision because the individual behaves in a manner that poses a serious health or safety hazard to the individual or to another individual.






