# ยง 76.33   Application procedures.

(a) *Filing requirements.* (1) An application for a certificate of compliance must be tendered by filing the application with the Director of the NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, with copies sent to the NRC Region III Office and appropriate resident inspector, in accordance with ยง 76.5. If the application is to be submitted electronically, see Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the Commission at *http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.*

(2) The application must include the full name, address, age (if an individual), and citizenship of the applicant. If the applicant is a corporation or other entity, the application must indicate the State where it was incorporated or organized; the location of the principal office; and the names, addresses, and citizenship of its principal officers. The applicant shall include any known information concerning the control or ownership, if any, exercised over the applicant by any alien, foreign corporation, or foreign government.


(b) *Oath or affirmation.* An application for a certificate of compliance must be executed in a signed original by a duly authorized officer of the Corporation under oath or affirmation.


(c) *Pre-filing consultation.* The Corporation may confer with the Commission's staff before filing an application.


(d) *Additional information.* At any time during the review of an application, the Corporation may be required to supply additional information to the Commission's staff to enable the Commission or the Director, as appropriate, to determine whether the certificate should be issued or denied, or to determine whether a compliance plan should be approved.


(e) *Withholdable information.* If an application contains Restricted Data, National Security Information, Safeguards Information, Unclassified Controlled Nuclear Information, proprietary data, or other withholdable information, the applicant shall ensure that the withholdable information is separate from the information to be made publicly available.



---

[N] [64 FR 44649, Aug. 17, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 58822, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62685, Dec. 1, 2009]




