# § 515.574   Support for the Cuban People.

(a) *General license.* The travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and other transactions that are intended to provide support for the Cuban people are authorized, provided that:


(1) The activities are of:


(i) Recognized human rights organizations;


(ii) Independent organizations designed to promote a rapid, peaceful transition to democracy; or


(iii) Individuals and non-governmental organizations that promote independent activity intended to strengthen civil society in Cuba; and


(2) Each traveler engages in a full-time schedule of activities that:


(i) Enhance contact with the Cuban people, support civil society in Cuba, or promote the Cuban people's independence from Cuban authorities; and


(ii) Result in meaningful interaction with individuals in Cuba.


(3) The traveler's schedule of activities does not include free time or recreation in excess of that consistent with a full-time schedule.


(b) An entire group does not qualify for the general license in paragraph (a) of this section merely because some members of the group qualify individually.


(c) *Certain direct financial transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section authorizes a direct financial transaction prohibited by § 515.209, with the exception of transactions on behalf of a non-governmental organization.


(d) *Certain travel-related transactions restricted.* Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section authorizes the lodging, paying for lodging, or making any reservation for or on behalf of a third party to lodge, at any property on the Cuba Prohibited Accommodations List (CPA List) to the extent prohibited by § 515.210.


(e) *Specific licenses.* Specific licenses may be issued on a case-by-case basis authorizing the travel-related transactions set forth in § 515.560(c) and such other transactions as are related to support for the Cuban people that do not qualify for the general license under paragraph (a) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 2299, Jan. 16, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 52003, Nov. 9, 2017; 85 FR 60072, Sept. 24, 2020]




