# ยง 16.6   Notification procedures under section 15 of the Federal Power Act.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to a licensee of an existing project subject to sections 14 and 15 of the Federal Power Act. 


(b) *Requirement to notify.* In order to notify the Commission under section 15 of the Federal Power Act whether a licensee intends to file or not to file an application for new license, the licensee must file with the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with filing procedures posted on the Commission's Web site at *http://www.ferc.gov* a letter, that contains the following information: 


(1) The licensee's name and address. 


(2) The project number. 


(3) The license expiration date. 


(4) An unequivocal statement of the licensee's intention to file or not to file an application for a new license. 


(5) The type of principal project works licensed, such as dam and reservoir, powerhouse, or transmission lines. 


(6) Whether the application is for a power or nonpower license. 


(7) The location of the project by state, county and stream, and, when appropriate, by city or nearby city. 


(8) The installed plant capacity. 


(9) The location or locations of all the sites where the information required under ยง 16.7 is available to the public. 


(10) The names and mailing addresses of: 


(i) Every county in which any part of the project is located, and in which any Federal facility that is used by the project is located; 


(ii) Every city, town, or similar local political subdivision: 


(A) In which any part of the project is located and any Federal facility that is used by the project is located, or 


(B) That has a population of 5,000 or more people and is located within 15 miles of the project dam, 


(iii) Every irrigation district, drainage district, or similar special purpose political subdivision: 


(A) In which any part of the project is located and any Federal facility that is used by the project is located, or 


(B) That owns, operates, maintains, or uses any project facility or any Federal facility that is used by the project; 


(iv) Every other political subdivision in the general area of the project that there is reason to believe would be likely to be interested in, or affected by, the notification;


(v) Affected Indian tribes.


(c) *When to notify.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a license expires on or after October 17, 1992, the licensee must notify the Commission as required in paragraph (b) of this section at least five years, but no more than five and one-half years, before the existing license expires. 


(2) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply if a licensee filed notice more than five and one-half years before its existing license expired and before the effective date of this rule. 


(d) *Commission notice.* Upon receipt of the notification required under paragraph (c) of this Section, the Commission will provide notice of the licensee's intent to file or not to file an application for a new license by:


(1) If the notification is filed prior to July 23, 2005;


(i) Publishing notice in the _Federal Register_;


(ii) Publishing notice once in a daily or weekly newspaper published in the county or counties in which the project or any part thereof or the lands affected thereby are situated; and


(iii) Notifying the appropriate Federal and state resource agencies, state water quality and coastal zone management consistency certifying agencies, and Indian tribes, by electronic means if practical, otherwise by mail.


(2) If the notification is filed on or after July 23, 2005, pursuant to the provisions of ยง 5.8 of this chapter.



---

[N] [Order 496, 53 FR 15810, May 4, 1988. Redesignated and amended by Order 513, 54 FR 23807, June 2, 1989; Order 2002, 68 FR 51139, Aug. 25, 2003; Order 653, 70 FR 8724, Feb. 23, 2005; Order 737, 75 FR 43403, July 26, 2010]




