# ยง 4284.1110   General applicant, application, and funding provisions.

(a) *Satisfactory progress.* A lead applicant that has received one or more grants under this program must make satisfactory progress toward completion of any previously funded projects before the lead applicant will be considered for subsequent funding. Satisfactory progress is defined as 50% or greater of the previous RISE award being expended at the time the Agency makes its eligibility determination for a subsequent application.


(b) *Application submittal.* Applications must be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this subpart unless otherwise specified in a _Federal Register_ notice. Grant applications for financial assistance under this subpart may be submitted at any time with awards made annually based on the application's score and subject to available funding.


(c) *Limit on number of applications.* An applicant can apply for and compete only one RISE project under this subpart per Federal fiscal year, unless otherwise noted in a _Federal Register_ notice.


(d) *Application modification.* Once submitted and prior to Agency award, if an applicant significantly modifies its application or scope of work, the application will be treated as a new application. The submission date of record for such modified applications will be the date the Agency receives the modified application, and the application will be processed by the Agency as a new application under this subpart. Applications that are modified due only to partial funding being available for the selected award are not subject to this provision.


(e) *Incomplete applications.* Applicants must submit a complete application in compliance with ยง 4284.1115 in order to be considered for funding. If an application is incomplete, the Agency will identify those parts of the application that are incomplete and return the documents, with a written explanation, to the applicant for possible future resubmission. Upon receipt of a complete application by the appropriate Agency office, the Agency will complete its evaluation and will compete the application in accordance with the procedures specified in ยง 4284.1118, as applicable.


(f) *Application withdrawal.* During the period between the submission of an application and the execution of grant award documents for an application selected for funding, the applicant must notify the Agency, in writing, if the project is no longer viable or the applicant is no longer requesting financial assistance for the project. When an applicant withdrawal request is received by the Agency, the selection will be rescinded and/or the application withdrawn from further processing and funding consideration.


(g) *Time limit on use of grant funds.* Except as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, grant funds not expended within the initial grant term of 4 years from the date the financial assistance agreement was signed by the Agency will be returned to the Agency.


(1) *Time extensions.* The Agency may extend the 4-year grant time limit if the Agency determines, at its sole discretion, that the grantee is unable to complete the project for reasons beyond the grantee's control and that the grantee has established an active jobs accelerator and related programming. Grantees must submit a request for the no-cost extension no later than 90 days before the expiration date of the Financial Assistance Agreement. This request must describe the extenuating circumstances that were beyond its control to complete the project for which the grant was awarded, elements of completion that are required and their timeframe, and why an approval is in the government's best interest. The Agency may extend the grant term up to an additional two-year period. Additional extensions will not be granted.


(2)* Return of funds to the Agency.* Funds that exceed the amount the grantee is entitled to receive under the financial assistance agreement or that are remaining after grant closeout will be returned to the Agency.






