# § 263.3   What definitions apply to the Professional Development program?

The following definitions apply to the Professional Development program:


*BIE-funded school* means a Bureau of Indian Education school, a contract or grant school, or a school for which assistance is provided under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Education.


*Dependent allowance* means costs for the care of minor children under the age of 18 who reside with the training participant and for whom the participant has responsibility. The term does not include financial obligations for payment of child support required of the participant.


*Full course load* means the number of credit hours that the institution requires of a full-time student.


*Full-time student* means a student who—


(1) Is a candidate for a baccalaureate degree, graduate degree, or Native American language certificate, as appropriate for the project;


(2) Carries a full course load; and


(3) Is not employed for more than 20 hours a week.


*Good standing* means a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 on a 4.0 grade point scale in which failing grades are computed as part of the average, or another appropriate standard established by the institution.


*Graduate degree* means a post-baccalaureate degree awarded by an institution of higher education.


*Indian* means an individual who is—


(1) A member of an Indian tribe or band, as membership is defined by the Indian tribe or band, including any tribe or band terminated since 1940, and any tribe or band recognized by the State in which the tribe or band resides;


(2) A descendant of a parent or grandparent who meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition;


(3) Considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian for any purpose;


(4) An Eskimo, Aleut, or other Alaska Native; or


(5) A member of an organized Indian group that received a grant under the Indian Education Act of 1988 as it was in effect on October 19, 1994.


*Indian organization* means an organization that—


(1) Is legally established—


(i) By tribal or inter-tribal charter or in accordance with State or tribal law; and


(ii) With appropriate constitution, by-laws, or articles of incorporation;


(2) Includes in its purposes the promotion of the education of Indians;


(3) Is controlled by a governing board, the majority of which is Indian;


(4) If located on an Indian reservation, operates with the sanction or by charter of the governing body of that reservation;


(5) Is neither an organization or subdivision of, nor under the direct control of, any institution of higher education or TCU; and


(6) Is not an agency of State or local government.


*Induction services* means services provided—


(1)(i) By educators, local traditional leaders, or cultural experts;


(ii) For the one, two, or three years of qualifying employment, as designated by the Department in the notice inviting applications; and


(iii) In LEAs that serve a high proportion of Indian students;


(2) To support and improve participants' professional performance and promote their retention in the field of education and teaching, and that include, at a minimum, these activities:


(i) High-quality mentoring, coaching, and consultation services for the participant to improve performance.


(ii) Access to research materials and information on teaching and learning.


(iii) Assisting new teachers with use of technology in the classroom and use of data, particularly student achievement data, for classroom instruction.


(iv) Clear, timely, and useful feedback on performance, provided in coordination with the participant's supervisor.


(v) Periodic meetings or seminars for participants to enhance collaboration, feedback, and peer networking and support.


*In-service training* means activities and opportunities designed to enhance the skills and abilities of individuals in their current areas of employment.


*Institution of higher education (IHE)* has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).


*Local educational agency (LEA) that serves a high proportion of Indian students* means—


(1) An LEA, including a BIE-funded school, that serves a high proportion of Indian students in the LEA as compared to other LEAs in the State; or


(2) An LEA, including a BIE-funded school, that serves a high proportion of Indian students in the school in which the participant works compared to other LEAs in the State, even if the LEA as a whole in which the participant works does not have a high proportion of Indian students compared to other LEAs in the State.


*Native American* means “Indian” as defined in section 6151(3) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended, which includes Alaska Native and members of federally-recognized or State-recognized Tribes; Native Hawaiian; and Native American Pacific Islander.


*Native American language* means the historical, traditional languages spoken by Native Americans.


*Participant* means an Indian individual who is being trained under the Professional Development program.


*Payback* means work-related service or cash reimbursement to the Department of Education for the training received under the Professional Development program.


*Pre-service training* means training to Indian individuals to prepare them to meet the requirements for licensing or certification in a professional field requiring at least a baccalaureate degree, or licensing or certification in the field of Native American language instruction.


*Professional development activities* means pre-service or in-service training offered to enhance the skills and abilities of individual participants.


*Qualifying employment* means employment in an LEA that serves a high proportion of Indian students.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Department of Education or an official or employee of the Department acting for the Secretary under a delegation of authority.


*Stipend* means that portion of an award that is used for room, board, and personal living expenses for full-time participants who are living at or near the institution providing the training.


*Tribal college or university (TCU)* has the meaning given that term in section 316(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)).


*Tribal educational agency (TEA)* means the agency, department, or instrumentality of an Indian Tribe that is primarily responsible for supporting Tribal students' elementary and secondary education.





---

[N] [80 FR 22412, Apr. 22, 2015, as amended at 85 FR 41377, July 10, 2020]




