# § 63.145   Process wastewater provisions—test methods and procedures to determine compliance.

(a) *General.* This section specifies the procedures for performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a treatment process or a control device with the control requirements specified in § 63.138 of this subpart. Owners or operators conducting a design evaluation shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. Owners or operators conducting a performance test shall comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section. 


(1) *Performance tests and design evaluations for treatment processes.* If design steam stripper option (§ 63.138(d)) or RCRA option (§ 63.138(h)) is selected to comply with § 63.138, neither a design evaluation nor a performance test is required. For any other non-biological treatment process, the owner or operator shall conduct either a design evaluation as specified in § 63.138(j), or a performance test as specified in this section. For closed biological treatment processes, the owner or operator shall conduct either a design evaluation as specified in § 63.138(j), or a performance test as specified in this section. For each open biological treatment process, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test as specified in this section.


(2) *Performance tests and design evaluations for control devices.* The owner or operator shall conduct either a design evaluation as specified in § 63.139(d), or a performance test as specified in paragraph (i) of this section for control devices other than flares and paragraph (j) of this section for flares. 


(3) *Representative process unit operating conditions.* Except as specified in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, compliance shall be demonstrated for representative operating conditions. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction and periods of nonoperation shall not constitute representative conditions. The owner or operator shall record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test.




(4) *Representative treatment process or control device operating conditions.* Performance tests shall be conducted when the treatment process or control device is operating at a representative inlet flow rate and concentration. If the treatment process or control device will be operating at several different sets of representative operating conditions, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (a)(4)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall record information that is necessary to document treatment process or control device operating conditions during the test. 


(i) *Range of operating conditions.* If the treatment process or control device will be operated at several different sets of representative operating conditions, performance testing over the entire range is not required. In such cases, the performance test results shall be supplemented with modeling and/or engineering assessments to demonstrate performance over the operating range. 


(ii) *Consideration of residence time.* If concentration and/or flow rate to the treatment process or control device are not relatively constant (i.e., comparison of inlet and outlet data will not be representative of performance), the owner or operator shall consider residence time, when determining concentration and flow rate. 


(5) *Testing equipment.* All testing equipment shall be prepared and installed as specified in the applicable test methods, or as approved by the Administrator. 


(6) *Compounds not required to be considered in performance tests or design evaluations.* Compounds that meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(6)(i), (a)(6)(ii), or (a)(6)(iii) of this section are not required to be included in the performance test. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not be adjusted by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. 


(i) Compounds not used or produced by the chemical manufacturing process unit; or 


(ii) Compounds with concentrations at the point of determination that are below 1 part per million by weight; or 


(iii) Compounds with concentrations at the point of determination that are below the lower detection limit where the lower detection limit is greater than 1 part per million by weight. The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. 


(7) *Treatment using a series of treatment processes.* In all cases where the wastewater provisions in this subpart allow or require the use of a treatment process to comply with emissions limitations, the owner or operator may use multiple treatment processes. The owner or operator complying with the requirements of § 63.138(a)(7)(i), when wastewater is conveyed by hard-piping, shall comply with either §§ 63.145(a)(7)(i) or 63.145(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart. The owner or operator complying with the requirements of § 63.138(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 63.145(a)(7)(ii) of this subpart. 


(i) The owner or operator shall conduct the performance test across each series of treatment processes. For each series of treatment processes, inlet concentration and flow rate shall be measured either where the wastewater stream enters the first treatment process in a series of treatment processes, or prior to the first treatment process as specified in § 63.145(a)(9) of this subpart. For each series of treatment processes, outlet concentration and flow rate shall be measured where the wastewater stream exits the last treatment process in the series of treatment processes, except when the last treatment process is an open or a closed aerobic biological treatment process demonstrating compliance by using the procedures in § 63.145 (f) or (g) of this subpart. When the last treatment process is either an open or a closed aerobic biological treatment process demonstrating compliance by using the procedures in § 63.145 (f) or (g) of this subpart, inlet and outlet concentrations and flow rates shall be measured as provided in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)(A) and (a)(7)(i)(B) of this section. The mass flow rates removed or destroyed by the series of treatment processes and by the biological treatment process are all used to calculate actual mass removal (AMR) as specified in § 63.145(f)(5)(ii) of this subpart. 


(A) The inlet and outlet to the series of treatment processes prior to the biological treatment process are the points at which the wastewater enters the first treatment process and exits the last treatment process in the series, respectively, except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section. 


(B) The inlet to the biological treatment process shall be the point at which the wastewater enters the biological treatment process or the outlet from the series of treatment processes identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section. 


(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct the performance test across each treatment process in the series of treatment processes. The mass flow rate removed or destroyed by each treatment process shall be added together to determine whether compliance has been demonstrated using § 63.145 (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g), as applicable. If a biological treatment process is one of the treatment processes in the series of treatment processes, the inlet to the biological treatment process shall be the point at which the wastewater enters the biological treatment process, or the inlet to the equalization tank if all the criteria of paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section are met. 


(8) When using a biological treatment process to comply with § 63.138 of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to calculate the AMR using a subset of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds determined at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration and flowrate changes made according to § 63.144(b)(6) and § 63.144(c)(4) of this subpart, respectively. All Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds measured to determine the RMR, except as provided by § 63.145(a)(6), shall be included in the RMR calculation. 


(9) The owner or operator determining the inlet for purposes of demonstrating compliance with § 63.145 (e), (f), or (g) of this subpart may elect to comply with paragraph (a)(9)(i) or (a)(9)(ii) of this section. 


(i) When wastewater is conveyed exclusively by hard-piping from the point of determination to a treatment process that is either the only treatment process or the first in a series of treatment processes (i.e., no treatment processes or other waste management units are used upstream of this treatment process to store, handle, or convey the wastewater), the inlet to the treatment process shall be at any location from the point of determination to where the wastewater stream enters the treatment process. When samples are taken upstream of the treatment process and before wastewater streams have converged, the owner or operator shall ensure that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138 (e) or (f) to comply and that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138(g) to comply, except as provided in § 63.145(a)(6). 


(ii) The owner or operator may consider the inlet to the equalization tank as the inlet to the biological treatment process if all the criteria in paragraphs (a)(9)(ii)(A) through (a)(9)(ii)(C) of this section are met. The outlet from the series of treatment processes prior to the biological treatment process is the point at which the wastewater exits the last treatment process in the series prior to the equalization tank, if the equalization tank and biological treatment process are part of a series of treatment processes. The owner or operator shall ensure that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138 (e) or (f) to comply and that the mass flow rate of all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams is accounted for when using § 63.138(g) to comply, except as provided in § 63.145(a)(6). 


(A) The wastewater is conveyed by hard-piping from either the last previous treatment process or the point of determination to the equalization tank. 


(B) The wastewater is conveyed from the equalization tank exclusively by hard-piping to the biological treatment process and no treatment processes or other waste management units are used to store, handle, or convey the wastewater between the equalization tank and the biological treatment process. 


(C) The equalization tank is equipped with a fixed roof and a closed vent system that routes emissions to a control device that meets the requirements of § 63.133(a)(2)(i) and § 63.133 (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this subpart.




(10) For each source as defined in § 63.101, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10), the requirement of paragraph (a)(3) of this section no longer applies. Instead, owners and operators must comply with the conditions specified in § 63.103(b)(3)(ii) of subpart F of this part.

 


(b) *Noncombustion treatment process—concentration limits.* This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a noncombustion treatment process with the parts per million by weight wastewater stream concentration limits at the outlet of the treatment process. This compliance option is specified in § 63.138(b)(1) and § 63.138(c)(1). Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). Samples shall be collected and analyzed using the procedures specified in § 63.144 (b)(5)(i), (b)(5)(ii), and (b)(5)(iii) of this subpart. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 may be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 may be adjusted by multiplying each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. (For wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds, compliance is demonstrated only if the sum of the concentrations of Table 9 compounds is less than 50 ppmw, and the concentration of each Table 8 compound is less than 10 ppmw.)


(c) *Noncombustion, nonbiological treatment process: Percent mass removal/destruction option.* This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a noncombustion, nonbiological treatment process with the percent mass removal limits specified in § 63.138(e) (1) and (2) for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145 (c)(1) through (c)(6) of this subpart.


(1) *Concentration.* The concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds entering and exiting the treatment process shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not adjust by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 34 of this subpart.


(2) *Flow rate.* The flow rate of the entering and exiting wastewater streams shall be determined using inlet and outlet flow measurement devices, respectively. Where the outlet flow is not greater than the inlet flow, a flow measurement device shall be used, and may be used at either the inlet or outlet. Flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements.


(3) *Calculation of mass flow rate—for noncombustion, nonbiological treatment processes.* The mass flow rates of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds entering and exiting the treatment process are calculated as follows.


(4) *Percent removal calculation for mass flow rate.* The percent mass removal across the treatment process shall be calculated as follows:


(5) *Calculation of flow-weighted average of Fr values.* If complying with § 63.138(e)(2), use Equation WW8 to calculate the flow-weighted average of the Fr values listed in Table 9 of this subpart. When the term “combustion” is used in Equation WW8, the term “treatment process” shall be used for the purposes of this paragraph.


(6) *Compare mass removal efficiency to required efficiency.* Compare the mass removal efficiency (calculated in Equation WW3) to the required efficiency as specified in § 63.138(e) of this subpart. If complying with § 63.138(e)(1), compliance is demonstrated if the mass removal efficiency is 99 percent or greater. If complying with § 63.138(e)(2), compliance is demonstrated if the mass removal efficiency is greater than or equal to the flow-weighted average of the Fr values calculated in Equation WW8.


(d) *Combustion treatment processes: percent mass removal/destruction option.* This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a combustion treatment process with the percent mass destruction limits specified in § 63.138(e) (1) and (2) for Table 9 compounds, and/or § 63.138(e)(1) for Table 8 compounds. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145 (d)(1) through (d)(9) of this subpart. (Wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds need only do the compliance demonstration for Table 9 compounds.)


(1) *Concentration in wastewater stream entering the combustion treatment process.* The concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds entering the treatment process shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 of appendix A of this part shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not adjust by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart.


(2) *Flow rate of wastewater entering the combustion treatment process.* The flow rate of the wastewater stream entering the combustion treatment process shall be determined using an inlet flow meter. Flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements.


(3) *Calculation of mass flow rate in wastewater stream entering combustion treatment processes.* The mass flow rate of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds entering the treatment process is calculated as follows:


(4) *Concentration in vented gas stream exiting the combustion treatment process.* The concentration of table 8 and/or table 9 compounds exiting the combustion treatment process in any vented gas stream shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements shall be determined using Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other test method validated according to the procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part may be used.








(5) *Volumetric flow rate of vented gas stream exiting the combustion treatment process.* The volumetric flow rate of the vented gas stream exiting the combustion treatment process shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate. Volumetric flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements.


(6) *Calculation of mass flow rate of vented gas stream exiting combustion treatment processes.* The mass flow rate of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds in a vented gas stream exiting the combustion treatment process shall be calculated as follows:


(Eqn WW5) [Reserved]


(7) *Destruction efficiency calculation.* The destruction efficiency of the combustion unit for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds shall be calculated as follows:


(8) *Calculation of flow-weighted average of Fr values.* Use Equation WW8 to calculate the flow-weighted average of the Fr values listed in table 9 of this subpart.


(9) *Calculate flow-weighted average of Fr values and compare to mass destruction efficiency.* Compare the mass destruction efficiency (calculated in Equation WW 7) to the required efficiency as specified in § 63.138(e). If complying with § 63.138(e)(1), compliance is demonstrated if the mass destruction efficiency is 99 percent or greater. If complying with § 63.138(e)(2), compliance is demonstrated if the mass destruction efficiency is greater than or equal to the flow-weighted average of the Fr value calculated in Equation WW8. 


(e) *Non-combustion treatment processes including closed biological treatment processes: RMR option.* This paragraph applies to performance tests for non-combustion treatment processes other than open biological treatment processes to demonstrate compliance with the mass removal provisions for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds. Compliance options for noncombustion treatment processes are specified in § 63.138(f) of this subpart. Compliance options for closed aerobic or anaerobic biological treatment processes are specified in § 63.138(f) and § 63.138(g) of this subpart. When complying with § 63.138(f), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145(e)(1) through (e)(6) of this subpart. When complying with § 63.138(g), the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145(e)(1) through (e)(6) of this subpart. (Wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds need only do the compliance demonstration for Table 9 compounds.) 


(1) *Concentration in wastewater stream.* The concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Concentration measurements to determine RMR shall be taken at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration change made according to § 63.144(b)(6) of this subpart. Concentration measurements to determine AMR shall be taken at the inlet and outlet to the treatment process and as provided in § 63.145(a)(7) for a series of treatment processes. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not adjust by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. 


(2) *Flow rate.* Flow rate measurements to determine RMR shall be taken at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for flow rate change made according to § 63.144(c)(4) of this subpart. Flow rate measurements to determine AMR shall be taken at the inlet and outlet to the treatment process and as provided in § 63.145(a)(7) for a series of treatment processes. Flow rate shall be determined using inlet and outlet flow measurement devices. Where the outlet flow is not greater than the inlet flow, a flow measurement device shall be used, and may be used at either the inlet or outlet. Flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements. 


(3) *Calculation of RMR for non-combustion treatment processes including closed biological treatment processes.* When using § 63.138(f) to comply, the required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for each Group 1 wastewater stream shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. When using § 63.138(g) to comply, the required mass removal shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section. 


(i) When using § 63.138(f) to comply, the required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for each Group 1 wastewater stream shall be calculated using Equation WW9. 


(ii) When using § 63.138(g) to comply, the required mass removal is 95 percent of the mass flow rate for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment. The required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(g) shall be calculated using the following equation: 


(4)(i) The required mass removal is calculated by summing the required mass removal for each Group 1 wastewater stream to be combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(f). 


(ii) The required mass removal is calculated by summing the required mass removal for all Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams combined for treatment when complying with § 63.138(g). 


(5) *The AMR calculation procedure for non-combustion treatment processes including closed biological treatment processes.* The AMR shall be calculated as follows: 


(6) *Compare RMR to AMR.* When complying with § 63.138(f), compare the RMR calculated in Equation WW9 to the AMR calculated in Equation WW10. Compliance is demonstrated if the AMR is greater than or equal to the RMR. When complying with § 63.138(g), compare the RMR calculated in Equation WW-9a to the AMR calculated in Equation WW10. Compliance is demonstrated if the AMR is greater than or equal to 95-percent mass removal. 


(f) *Open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes: Required mass removal (RMR) option.* This paragraph applies to the use of performance tests that are conducted for open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes to demonstrate compliance with the mass removal provisions for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds. These compliance options are specified in § 63.138(f) of this subpart. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145 (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this subpart. Some compounds may not require a performance test. Refer to § 63.145(h) and table 36 of this subpart to determine which compounds may be exempt from the requirements of this paragraph. 


(1) *Concentration in wastewater stream.* The concentration of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Concentration measurements to determine RMR shall be taken at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for concentration change made according to § 63.144(b)(6) of this subpart. Concentration measurements to determine AMR shall be taken at the inlet and outlet to the treatment process and as provided in § 63.145(a)(7) for a series of treatment processes. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has that compound as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not adjust by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in table 34 of this subpart. 


(2) *Flow rate.* Flow rate measurements to determine RMR shall be taken at the point of determination or downstream of the point of determination with adjustment for flow rate change made according to § 63.144(c)(4) of this subpart. Flow rate measurements to determine AMR shall be taken at the inlet and outlet to the treatment process and as provided in § 63.145(a)(7) for a series of treatment processes. Flow rate shall be determined using inlet and outlet flow measurement devices. Where the outlet flow is not greater than the inlet flow, a flow measurement device shall be used, and may be used at either the inlet or outlet. Flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements. 


(3) *Calculation of RMR for open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes.* The required mass removal of Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds for each Group 1 wastewater stream shall be calculated using the following equation:


(4) The required mass removal is calculated by adding together the required mass removal for each Group 1 wastewater stream to be combined for treatment. 


(5) *Actual mass removal calculation procedure for open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes.* The actual mass removal (AMR) shall be calculated using Equation WW12 as specified in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section when the performance test is performed across the open or closed aerobic biological treatment process only. If compliance is being demonstrated in accordance with § 63.145(a)(7)(i), the AMR for the series shall be calculated using Equation WW13 in § 63.145(f)(5)(ii). (This equation is for situations where treatment is performed in a series of treatment processes connected by hard-piping.) If compliance is being demonstrated in accordance with § 63.145(a)(7)(ii), the AMR for the biological treatment process shall be calculated using Equation WW12 in § 63.145(f)(5)(i). The AMR for the biological treatment process used in a series of treatment processes calculated using Equation WW12 shall be added to the AMR determined for each of the other individual treatment processes in the series of treatment processes. 


(i) Calculate AMR for the open or closed aerobic biological treatment process as follows: 


(ii) Calculate AMR across a series of treatment units where the last treatment unit is an open or closed aerobic biological treatment process as follows: 


(6) *Compare RMR to AMR.* Compare the RMR calculated in Equation WW11 to the AMR calculated in either Equation WW12 or WW13, as applicable. Compliance is demonstrated if the AMR is greater than or equal to the RMR. 


(g) *Open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes: 95-percent mass removal option.* This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted for open or closed aerobic biological treatment processes to demonstrate compliance with the 95-percent mass removal provisions for Table 8 and/or Table 9 compounds. This compliance option is specified in § 63.138(g) of this subpart. The RMR for this option is 95-percent mass removal. The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in § 63.145(g)(1) to determine AMR, § 63.145 (e)(3)(ii) and (e)(4)(ii) to determine RMR, and (g)(2) of this subpart to determine whether compliance has been demonstrated. Some compounds may not require a performance test. Refer to § 63.145(h) and table 36 of this subpart to determine which compounds may be exempt from the requirements of this paragraph. (Wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both Table 8 and Table 9 compounds need only do the compliance demonstration for Table 9 compounds.) 


(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (f)(2), and (f)(5) of this section to determine AMR. References to Group 1 wastewater streams shall be deemed Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams for the purposes of this paragraph. 


(2) *Compare RMR to AMR.* Compliance is demonstrated if the AMR is greater than or equal to RMR. 


(h) *Site-specific fraction biodegraded* (F_bio_). The compounds listed in table 9 of this subpart are divided into two sets for the purpose of determining whether F_bio_ must be determined, and if F_bio_ must be determined, which procedures may be used to determine compound-specific kinetic parameters. These sets are designated as lists 1 and 2 in table 36 of this subpart.


(1) *Performance test exemption.* If a biological treatment process meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator is not required to determine F_bio_ and is exempt from the applicable performance test requirements specified in § 63.138 of this subpart. 


(i) The biological treatment process meets the definition of “enhanced biological treatment process” in § 63.111 of this subpart. 


(ii) At least 99 percent by weight of all compounds on table 36 of this subpart that are present in the aggregate of all wastewater streams using the biological treatment process to comply with § 63.138 of this subpart are compounds on list 1 of table 36 of this subpart. 


(2) *F*_bio_ determination. If a biological treatment process does not meet the requirement specified in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine F_bio_ for the biological treatment process using the procedures in appendix C to part 63, and paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section. If a biological treatment process meets the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section but does not meet the requirement specified in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine F_bio_ for the biological treatment process using the procedures in appendix C to part 63, and paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section.


(i) *Enhanced biological treatment processes.* If the biological treatment process meets the definition of “enhanced biological treatment process” in § 63.111 of this subpart and the wastewater streams include one or more compounds on list 2 of table 36 of this subpart that do not meet the criteria in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine f_bio_ for the list 2 compounds using any of the procedures specified in appendix C of 40 CFR part 63. (The symbol “f_bio_” represents the site specific fraction of an individual Table 8 or Table 9 compound that is biodegraded.) The owner or operator shall calculate f_bio_ for the list 1 compounds using the defaults for first order biodegradation rate constants (K_1_) in table 37 of subpart G and follow the procedure explained in form III of appendix C, 40 CFR part 63, or any of the procedures specified in appendix C, 40 CFR part 63.


(ii) *Biological treatment processes that are not enhanced biological treatment processes.* For biological treatment processes that do not meet the definition for “enhanced biological treatment process” in § 63.111 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall determine the f_bio_ for the list 1 and 2 compounds using any of the procedures in appendix C to part 63, except procedure 3 (inlet and outlet concentration measurements). (The symbol “f_bio_” represents the site specific fraction of an individual Table 8 or Table 9 compound that is biodegraded.)




(i) *Performance tests for control devices other than flares.* This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a control device with the efficiency limits specified in § 63.139(c). If complying with the 95-percent reduction efficiency requirement, comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(9) of this section. If complying with the 20 ppm by volume requirement, comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (6) and (9) of this section. The 20 ppm by volume limit or 95-percent reduction efficiency requirement shall be measured as either total organic hazardous air pollutants or as TOC minus methane and ethane. Performance tests must be conducted according to the schedule in § 63.103(b)(1) of subpart F of this part.




(1) *Sampling sites.* Sampling sites shall be selected using Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate. For determination of compliance with the 95 percent reduction requirement, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and the outlet of the control device. For determination of compliance with the 20 parts per million by volume limit, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the control device. 




(2) *Concentration in gas stream entering or exiting the control device.* The concentration of total organic hazardous air pollutants or TOC in a gas stream shall be determined as provided in this paragraph. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples (*i.e.,* integrated samples). Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of 3 runs. Concentration measurements shall be determined using Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60. ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may also be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method. Alternatively, any other test method validated according to the procedures in Method 301 of appendix A to this part may be used.












(3) *Volumetric flow rate of gas stream entering or exiting the control device.* The volumetric flow rate of the gas stream shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate. Volumetric flow rate measurements shall be taken at the same time as the concentration measurements. 


(4) *Calculation of TOC concentration.* The TOC concentration (CG_T_) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components. If compliance is being determined based on TOC, the owner or operator shall compute TOC for each run using the following equation: 


(5) *Calculation of total organic hazardous air pollutants concentration.* The owner or operator determining compliance based on total organic hazardous air pollutants concentration (C_HAP_) shall compute C_HAP_ according to the Equation WW14, except that only Table 9 compounds shall be summed.


(6) *Percent oxygen correction for combustion control devices.* If the control device is a combustion device, comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section to determine oxygen concentration, and in paragraph (i)(6)(ii) of this section to calculate the percent oxygen correction.




(i) *Oxygen concentration.* The concentration of TOC or total organic hazardous air pollutants shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if the control device is a combustion device. Method 3A of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 or the manual method in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) shall be used to determine the actual oxygen concentration (%02d). The samples shall be taken during the same time that the TOC (minus methane or ethane) or total organic hazardous air pollutants samples are taken.














(ii) *3 percent oxygen calculation.* The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (CG_c_), when required, shall be computed using the following equation:


(7) *Mass rate calculation.* The mass rate of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic hazardous air pollutants shall be calculated using the following equations. Where the mass rate of TOC is being calculated, all organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by methods specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section are summed using Equations WW16 and WW17. Where the mass rate of total organic hazardous air pollutants is being calculated, only Table 9 compounds shall be summed using Equations WW16 and WW17.


(8) *Percent reduction calculation.* The percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic hazardous air pollutants shall be calculated as follows:


(9) *Compare mass destruction efficiency to required efficiency.* If complying with the 95 percent reduction efficiency requirement, compliance is demonstrated if the mass destruction efficiency (calculated in Equation WW18) is 95 percent or greater. If complying with the 20 parts per million by volume limit in § 63.139 (c)(1)(ii) of this subpart, compliance is demonstrated if the outlet total organic compound concentration, less methane and ethane, or total organic hazardous air pollutants concentration is 20 parts per million by volume, or less. For combustion control devices, the concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen.




(j) Except as specified in paragraph (a) of § 63.108, when a flare is used to comply with § 63.139(c), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration.




(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4). 


(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6). 


(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.



---

[N] [62 FR 2765, Jan. 17, 1997, as amended at 63 FR 67793, Dec. 9, 1998; 64 FR 20192, Apr. 26, 1999; 66 FR 6933, Jan. 22, 2001; 89 FR 43205, May 16, 2024]




