# § 1033.640   Provisions for repowered and refurbished locomotives.

(a) The provisions of this section apply for locomotives that are produced from an existing locomotive so that the new locomotive contains both previously used parts and parts that have never been used before.


(1) Repowered locomotives are used locomotives in which a freshly manufactured propulsion engine is installed. As described in this section, a repowered locomotive is deemed to be either remanufactured or freshly manufactured, depending on the total amount of unused parts on the locomotive. It may also be deemed to be a refurbished locomotive.


(2) Refurbished locomotives are locomotives that contain more unused parts than previously used parts. As described in this section, a locomotive containing more unused parts than previously used parts may be deemed to be either remanufactured or freshly manufactured, depending on the total amount of unused parts on the locomotive. Note that § 1033.901 defines refurbishment of a pre-1973 locomotive to be an upgrade of the locomotive.


(b) A single existing locomotive cannot be divided into parts and combined with new parts to create more than one remanufactured locomotive. However, any number of locomotives can be divided into parts and combined with new parts to create more than one remanufactured locomotive, provided the number of locomotives created (remanufactured and freshly manufactured) does not exceed the number of locomotives that were disassembled.


(c) You may determine the relative amount of previously used parts consistent with the specifications of the Federal Railroad Administration. Otherwise, determine the relative amount of previously used parts as follows:


(1) Identify the parts in the fully assembled locomotive that have been previously used and those that have never been used before.


(2) Weight the unused parts and previously used parts by the dollar value of the parts. For example, a single part valued at $1200 would count the same as six parts valued at $200 each. Group parts by system where possible (such as counting the engine as one part) if either all the parts in that system are used or all the parts in that system are unused. Calculate the used part values using dollar values from the same year as the new parts.


(3) Sum the values of the unused parts. Also sum the values of the previously used parts. The relative fraction of used parts is the total value of previously used parts divided by the combined value of the unused parts and previously used parts.


(d) If the weighted fraction of the locomotive that is comprised of previously used parts is greater than or equal to 25 percent, then the locomotive is considered to be a remanufactured locomotive and retains its original date of manufacture. Note, however, that if the weighted fraction of the locomotive that is comprised of previously used parts is less than 50 percent, then the locomotive is also considered to be a refurbished locomotive.


(e) If the weighted fraction of the locomotive that is comprised of previously used parts is less than 25 percent, then the locomotive is deemed to be a freshly manufactured locomotive and the date of original manufacture is the most recent date on which the locomotive was assembled using less than 25 percent previously used parts. For example:


(1) If you produce a new locomotive that includes a used frame, but all other parts are unused, then the locomotive would likely be considered to be a freshly manufactured locomotive because the value of the frame would likely be less than 25 percent of the total value of the locomotive. Its date of original manufacture would be the date on which you complete its assembly.


(2) If you produce a new locomotive by replacing the engine in a 1990 locomotive with a freshly manufactured engine, but all other parts are used, then the locomotive would likely be considered to be a remanufactured locomotive and its date of original manufacture is the date on which assembly was completed in 1990. (_Note:_ such a locomotive would also be considered to be a repowered locomotive.)


(f) Locomotives containing used parts that are deemed to be freshly manufactured locomotives are subject to the same provisions as all other freshly manufactured locomotives. Other refurbished locomotives are subject to the same provisions as other remanufactured locomotives, with the following exceptions:


(1) *Switch locomotives.* (i) Prior to January 1, 2015, remanufactured Tier 0 switch locomotives that are deemed to be refurbished are subject to the Tier 0 line-haul cycle and switch cycle standards. Note that this differs from the requirements applicable to other Tier 0 switch locomotives, which are not subject to the Tier 0 line-haul cycle standards.


(ii) Beginning January 1, 2015, remanufactured Tier 3 and earlier switch locomotives that are deemed to be refurbished are subject to the Tier 3 switch standards.


(2) *Line-haul locomotives.* Remanufactured line-haul locomotives that are deemed to be refurbished are subject to the same standards as freshly manufactured line-haul locomotives, except that line-haul locomotives with rated power less than 3000 hp that are refurbished before January 1, 2015 are subject to the same standards as refurbished switch locomotives under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. However, line-haul locomotives less than 3000 hp may not generate emission credits relative to the standards specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) *Labels for switch and line-haul locomotives.* Remanufacturers that refurbish a locomotive must add a secondary locomotive label that includes the following:


(i) The label heading: “REFURBISHED LOCOMOTIVE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION.”


(ii) The statement identifying when the locomotive was refurbished and what standards it is subject to, as follows: “THIS LOCOMOTIVE WAS REFURBISHED IN [year of refurbishment] AND MUST COMPLY WITH THE TIER [applicable standard level] EACH TIME THAT IT IS REMANUFACTURED, EXCEPT AS ALLOWED BY 40 CFR 1033.750.”.



---

[N] [73 FR 37197, June 30, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 59190, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 8425, Feb. 24, 2009; 81 FR 74009, Oct. 25, 2016]




