# ยง 52.229   Control strategy and regulations: Photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons), Metropolitan Los Angeles Intrastate Region.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) The following rules are disapproved because they would result in a relaxation of control requirements contained in the presently approved State Implementation Plan, and no analysis has been presented to show that this relaxation will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of NAAQS for photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons) as required by section 110 of the Clean Air Act.


(1) Southern California APCD.


(i) Regulation IV, Rule 465 Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems, submitted on August 2, 1976.


(2) South Coast Air Quality Management District.


(i) Regulation IV, Rule 461 Gasoline Transfer and Dispensing, submitted on June 6, 1977. The version of this rule by the same number and title submitted on April 21, 1976 and approved under 40 CFR 52.223 is retained.


(ii) Rule 1115, Automotive Coatings, adopted on March 16, 1984 by the District and submitted by the state to EPA on July 10, 1984.


(iii) Rule 1113, Architectural Coatings, adopted on August 2, 1985 and submitted to EPA on November 12, 1985. The version of this rule by the same number and title submitted on July 10, 1984 and approved by EPA on January 24, 1985 is retained.


(c) The rescission by the Southern California APCD of the following rules, which were previously approved in the September 22, 1972 (37 FR 19813) _Federal Register_ issue, is disapproved since adequate replacement rules have not been submitted and no analysis has been presented to show that this rescission will not interfere with the attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS for photochemical oxidants (hydrocarbons) as required by section 110 of the Clean Air Act. In addition, the following rules, as submitted in June 1972 and approved for the SIP, remain federally enforceable:


(1) Los Angeles County APCD, Regulation IV, Rule 69, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems.


(2) San Bernardino County APCD, Regulation IV, Rule 69, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems.


(3) Riverside County APCD, Regulation IV, Rule 74, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems.


(4) Orange County APCD, Regulation IV, Rule 69, Vacuum Producing Devices or Systems.



---

[N] [37 FR 10850, May 31, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 25687, June 14, 1978; 43 FR 40014, Sept. 8, 1978; 46 FR 5978, Jan. 21, 1981; 54 FR 5237, Feb. 2, 1989; 54 FR 34515, Aug. 21, 1989]




