# § 165.839   Safety Zone; Large Cruise Ships; Lower Mississippi River, Southwest Pass Sea Buoy to Mile Marker 96.0, New Orleans, LA.

(a) *Location.* Within the Lower Mississippi River and Southwest Pass, moving safety zones are established around all large cruise ships transiting between the Southwest Pass Entrance Lighted Buoy “SW”, at approximate position 28°52′42″ N, 89°25′54″ W [NAD 83] and Lower Mississippi River mile marker 96.0 in New Orleans, Louisiana. The moving safety zone extends bank to bank, encompassing all waters one-mile ahead and one-mile astern of a large cruise ship. The zone remains in effect during the entire transit of the large cruise ship.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section the term “large cruise ship” is defined as a vessel over 100 feet in length, carrying more than 500 passengers for hire, making a voyage lasting more than 24 hours, any part of which is on the high seas, and for which passengers are embarked or disembarked in the United States or its territories.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR Part 165, Subpart C, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the Safety Zone except for vessels authorized by the Captain of the Port or Designated Representatives, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(2) For this section the Pilot directing the movement of the large cruise ship under the authority of the master has the authority to allow other vessels to enter the safety zone when necessary.


(3) All vessels are prohibited from entering this safety zone unless authorized as follows:


(i) Vessels that have made suitable passing or overtaking arrangements with the pilot onboard the large cruise ship may enter into this safety zone in accordance with those agreed upon arrangements.


(ii) Moored vessels or vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area may remain in their current moored or anchored position while the large cruise ship transits the area.


(iii) Barge Fleets or vessels working a fleet may continue their current operations while the large cruise ship transits the area.


(4) Vessels requiring a deviation from this rule must request permission from the Captain of the Port New Orleans. The Captain of the Port New Orleans may be contacted at (504) 365-2210.



---

[N] [USCG-2010-0012, 77 FR 65818, Oct. 31, 2012]




