# § 721.10875   Alkali transition metal oxide (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as alkali transition metal oxide (PMN P-11-150) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this rule do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after it has been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* (A) Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(4), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (a)(6)(vi), (b)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. The following National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-certified respirators with an Assigned Protection Factor (APF) of at least 10 meet the requirements of § 721.63(a)(4):


(*1*) Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying elastomeric half-mask respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(*2*) Any appropriate NIOSH-certified N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filtering facepiece respirator.


(*3*) Any NIOSH-certified air-purifying full facepiece respirator equipped with N100 (if oil aerosols absent), R100, or P100 filters.


(*4*) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) supplied air respirator equipped with a half-mask.


(*5*) Any NIOSH-certified negative pressure (demand) self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) equipped with a half-mask.


(B) As an alternative to the respiratory requirements listed here, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the New Chemical Exposure Limit (NCEL) provisions listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 2.4 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time weighted average (TWA) verified by actual monitoring data.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e)(concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(1)(iii), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(viii), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv)(use respiratory protection, or maintain workplace airborne concentrations at or below an 8-hour time-weighted average of 2.4 mg/m
3), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [81 FR 30470, May 16, 2016]




