# § 1.422-4   $100,000 limitation for incentive stock options.

(a) *$100,000 per year limitation*—(1) *General rule.* An option that otherwise qualifies as an incentive stock option nevertheless fails to be an incentive stock option to the extent that the $100,000 limitation described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is exceeded.


(2) *$100,000 per year limitation.* To the extent that the aggregate fair market value of stock with respect to which an incentive stock option (determined without regard to this section) is exercisable for the first time by any individual during any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and related corporations) exceeds $100,000, such option is treated as a nonstatutory option. See § 1.83-7 for rules applicable to nonstatutory options.


(b) *Application.* To determine whether the limitation described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section has been exceeded, the following rules apply:


(1) An option that does not meet the requirements of § 1.422-2 when granted (including an option which, when granted, contains terms providing that it will not be treated as an incentive stock option) is disregarded. See § 1.422-2(a)(4).


(2) The fair market value of stock is determined as of the date of grant of the option for such stock.


(3) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, options are taken into account in the order in which they are granted.


(4) For purposes of this section, an option is considered to be first exercisable during a calendar year if the option will become exercisable at any time during the year assuming that any condition on the optionee's ability to exercise the option related to the performance of services is satisfied. If the optionee's ability to exercise the option in the year is subject to an acceleration provision, then the option is considered first exercisable in the calendar year in which the acceleration provision is triggered. After an acceleration provision is triggered, the options subject to such provision are then taken into account in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section for purposes of applying the limitation described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section to all options first exercisable during a calendar year. However, because an acceleration provision is not taken into account prior to its triggering, an incentive stock option that becomes exercisable for the first time during a calendar year by operation of such a provision does not affect the application of the $100,000 limitation with respect to any option (or portion thereof) exercised prior to such acceleration. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4), an acceleration provision includes, for example, a provision that accelerates the exercisability of an option on a change in ownership or control or a provision that conditions exercisability on the attainment of a performance goal. See paragraph (d), *Example 4* of this section.


(5)(i) An option (or portion thereof) is disregarded if, prior to the calendar year during which it would otherwise have become exercisable for the first time, the option (or portion thereof) is modified and thereafter ceases to be an incentive stock option described in § 1.422-2, is canceled, or is transferred in violation of § 1.421-1(b)(2).


(ii) If an option (or portion thereof) is modified, canceled, or transferred at any other time, such option (or portion thereof) is treated as outstanding according to its original terms until the end of the calendar year during which it would otherwise have become exercisable for the first time.


(6) A disqualifying disposition has no effect on the determination of whether an option exceeds the $100,000 limitation.


(c) *Bifurcation*—(1) *Options.* The application of the rules described in paragraph (b) of this section may result in an option being treated, in part, as an incentive stock option and, in part, as a nonstatutory option. *See* § 1.83-7 for the treatment of nonstatutory options.


(2) *Stock.* A corporation may issue a separate certificate for incentive option stock or designate such stock as incentive stock option stock in the corporation's transfer records or plan records. In such a case, the issuance of separate certificates or designation in the corporation's transfer records or plan records is not a modification under § 1.424-1(e). In the absence of such an issuance or designation, shares are treated as first purchased under an incentive stock option to the extent of the $100,000 limitation, and the excess shares are treated as purchased under a nonstatutory option. *See* § 1.83-7 for the treatment of nonstatutory options.


(d) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of this section. In each of the following examples E is an employee of X Corporation. The examples are as follows:



---

[N] [T.D. 9144, 69 FR 46415, Aug. 3, 2004; 69 FR 70551, Dec. 7, 2004]




