# § 52.18   Issuance of certificates.

(a)(1) The person signing and issuing the certificate shall be one of the following:


(i) The inspector who performed the inspection.


(ii) Another employee of the Inspection Service who has been authorized by the Administrator to act in a supervisory capacity.


(iii) An inspector designated as the “inspector in charge,” when the certificate represents composite inspection of several persons.


(2) In all cases the inspection certificate shall be prepared in accordance with the facts set forth in the official memoranda made by the inspector or inspectors in connection with the inspection. Whenever a certificate is signed by an inspector in charge, that title must appear in connection with the signature.


(b) A certificate of loading shall be issued and signed by the inspector or licensed sampler authorized to check the loading of a specific lot of processed products: *Provided,* That, another employee of the inspection service authorized by the Administrator to act in a supervisory capacity or designated as the “inspector in charge,” may sign such certificate of loading covering any processed product checkloaded by an inspector or licensed sampler and authorized by the Administrator to affix the inspector's or licensed sampler's signature to a certificate of loading which has been prepared in accordance with the facts set forth in the notes made by the inspector or licensed sampler in connection with the checkloading of a specific lot of processed products.



---

[N] [22 FR 3535, May 22, 1957, as amended at 35 FR 14061, Sept. 4, 1970. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977 and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981; 84 FR 8590, Mar. 11, 2019]




