# § 983.352   Vacancy payment.

(a) *Payment for move-out month.* If an assisted family moves out of the unit, the owner may keep the housing assistance payment payable for the calendar month when the family moves out (“move-out month”). However, the owner may not keep the payment if the PHA determines that the vacancy is the owner's fault.


(b) *Vacancy payment at PHA discretion.* (1) At the discretion of the PHA, the HAP contract may provide for vacancy payments to the owner (in the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section) for a PHA-determined period of vacancy extending from the beginning of the first calendar month after the move-out month for a period not exceeding two full months following the move-out month. 

The PHA must include in its Administrative Plan the PHA's policy on the conditions under which it will allow vacancy payments in a HAP contract, the duration of the payments, amount of vacancy payments it will make to an owner, and the required form and manner of requests for vacancy payments, in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.




(2) The vacancy payment to the owner for each month of the maximum two-month period will be determined by the PHA, and cannot exceed the monthly rent to owner under the assisted lease, minus any portion of the rental payment received by the owner (including amounts available from the tenant's security deposit). Any vacancy payment may cover only the period the unit remains vacant.


(3) The PHA may make vacancy payments to the owner only if:


(i) The owner gives the PHA prompt, written notice certifying that the family has vacated the unit and containing the date when the family moved out (to the best of the owner's knowledge and belief);


(ii) The owner certifies that the vacancy is not the fault of the owner and that the unit was vacant during the period for which payment is claimed;


(iii) The owner certifies that it has taken every reasonable action to minimize the likelihood and length of vacancy; and


(iv) The owner provides any additional information required and requested by the PHA to verify that the owner is entitled to the vacancy payment.


(4) The owner must submit a request for vacancy payments in the form and manner required by the PHA and must provide any information or substantiation required by the PHA to determine the amount of any vacancy payment. 



---

[N] [70 FR 59913, Oct. 13, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 38338, May 7, 2024]








