# ยง 98.307   Records that must be retained.

(a) In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain records of the information reported and listed in ยง 98.306.


(b) For each piece of electrical equipment whose nameplate capacity is measured by the equipment user, retain records of the following:


(1) Equipment manufacturer name.


(2) Year equipment was manufactured. If the date year the equipment was manufactured cannot be determined, report a best estimate of the year of manufacture and record how the estimated year was determined.


(3) Manufacturer serial number. For any piece of equipment whose serial number is unknown (*e.g.,* the serial number does not exist or is not visible), another unique identifier must be recorded as the manufacturer serial number. The electrical equipment user must retain documentation that allows for each electrical equipment to be readily identifiable.


(4) Equipment type (*i.e.,* closed-pressure vs. hermetically sealed-pressure).


(5) Equipment voltage capacity (in kilovolts).


(6) The name and GWP of each insulating gas used.


(7) Nameplate capacity value (pounds), as specified by the equipment manufacturer. The value must reflect the latest value specified by the manufacturer during the reporting year.


(8) Nameplate capacity value (pounds) measured by the equipment user.


(9) The date the nameplate capacity measurement process was completed.


(10) The measurements and calculations used to calculate the value in paragraph (b)(8) of this section.


(11) The temperature-pressure curve and/or other information used to derive the initial and final temperature-adjusted pressures of the equipment.


(12) Whether or not the nameplate capacity value in paragraph (b)(8) of this section has been adopted for the piece of electrical equipment.






