# ยง 314.72   Change in ownership of an application.

(a) An applicant may transfer ownership of its application. At the time of transfer the new and former owners are required to submit information to the Food and Drug Administration as follows:


(1) The former owner shall submit a letter or other document that states that all rights to the application have been transferred to the new owner.


(2) The new owner shall submit an application form signed by the new owner and a letter or other document containing the following:


(i) The new owner's commitment to agreements, promises, and conditions made by the former owner and contained in the application;


(ii) The date that the change in ownership is effective; and 


(iii) Either a statement that the new owner has a complete copy of the approved application, including supplements and records that are required to be kept under ยง 314.81, or a request for a copy of the application from FDA's files. FDA will provide a copy of the application to the new owner under the fee schedule in ยง 20.45 of FDA's public information regulations.


(b) The new owner shall advise FDA about any change in the conditions in the approved application under ยง 314.70, except the new owner may advise FDA in the next annual report about a change in the drug product's label or labeling to change the product's brand or the name of its manufacturer, packer, or distributor.



---

[N] [50 FR 7493, Feb. 22, 1985; 50 FR 14212, Apr. 11, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 21238, May 23, 1985; 67 FR 9586, Mar. 4, 2002; 68 FR 25287, May 12, 2003]




