# ยง 63.8266   What definitions apply to this subpart?

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the CAA, in ยง 63.2, and in this section as follows:


*Aqueous liquid* means a liquid mixture in which water is the predominant component.


*Brine* means an aqueous solution of alkali metal chloride, as sodium chloride salt solution or potassium chloride salt solution, that is used in the electrolyzer as a raw material.


*By-product hydrogen stream* means the hydrogen gas from each decomposer that passes through the hydrogen system and is burned as fuel, transferred to another process as raw material, or discharged directly to the atmosphere. 


*Caustic* means an aqueous solution of alkali metal hydroxide, as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide, that is produced in the decomposer. 


*Caustic basket* means a fixture adjacent to the decomposer that contains a serrated funnel over which the caustic from the decomposer passes, breaking into droplets such that electric current is interrupted. 


*Caustic system* means all vessels, piping, and equipment that convey caustic and remove mercury from the caustic stream. The caustic system begins at the decomposer and ends after the primary filters. 


*Cell room* means a building or other structure in which one or more mercury cells are located. 


*Continuous parameter monitoring system, or CPMS,* means the total equipment that may be required to meet the data acquisition and availability requirements of this subpart, used to sample, condition (if applicable), analyze, and provide a record of process of control system parameters. 


*Control device* means a piece of equipment (such as condensers, coolers, chillers, heat exchangers, mist eliminators, absorption units, and adsorption units) that removes mercury from gaseous streams. 


*Decomposer* means the component of a mercury cell in which mercury amalgam and water react in bed of graphite packing (within a cylindrical vessel), producing caustic and hydrogen gas and returning mercury to its elemental form for re-use in the process. 




*Deviation* means any instance in which an affected source subject to this subpart, or an owner or operator of such a source:


(1) Fails to meet any requirement or obligation established by this subpart including, but not limited to, any emission limitation (including any operating limit) or work practice standard (including any monitoring plan);


(2) Fails to meet any term or condition that is adopted to implement an applicable requirement in this subpart and that is included in the title V operating permit for any affected source required to obtain such a permit; or


(3) Fails to take corrective actions within 48 hours that result in parameter monitoring values being within range.














*Electrolyzer* means the main component of the mercury cell that consists of an elongated, shallow steel trough that holds a layer of mercury as a flowing cathode. The electrolyzer is enclosed by side panels and a top that suspends metal anodes. In the electrolyzer, brine is fed between a flowing mercury cathode and metal anodes in the presence of electricity to produce chlorine gas and an alkali metal-mercury amalgam (mercury amalgam). 


*Emission limitation* means any emission limit or operating limit. 


*End box* means a component of a mercury cell for transferring materials between the electrolyzer and the decomposer. The inlet end box collects and combines raw materials at the inlet end of the cell, and the outlet end box separates and directs various materials either into the decomposer or out of the cell. 


*End box ventilation system* means all vessels, piping, and equipment that evacuate the head space of each mercury cell end box (and possibly other vessels and equipment) to the atmosphere. The end box ventilation system begins at the end box (and other vessel or equipment which is being evacuated) and terminates at the end box ventilation system vent. The end box ventilation system includes all control devices. 


*End box ventilation system vent* means the discharge point of the end box ventilation system to the atmosphere after all control devices. 


*Hydrogen leak* means hydrogen gas (containing mercury vapor) that is escaping from the decomposer or hydrogen system. 


*Hydrogen system* means all vessels, piping, and equipment that convey a by-product hydrogen stream. The hydrogen system begins at the decomposer and ends at the point just downstream of the last control device. The hydrogen system includes all control devices. 


*In liquid mercury service* means containing or coming in contact with liquid mercury. 


*Liquid mercury accumulation* means one or more liquid mercury droplets, or a pool of liquid mercury, present on the floor or other surface exposed to the atmosphere. 


*Liquid mercury leak* means the liquid mercury that is dripping or otherwise escaping from process equipment. 


*Liquid mercury spill* means a liquid mercury accumulation resulting from a liquid mercury that leaked from process equipment or that dripped during maintenance or handling.


*Mercury cell* means a device consisting of an electrolyzer and decomposer, with one or more end boxes, a mercury pump, and other components linking the electrolyzer and decomposer. 


*Mercury cell amalgam seal pot* means a compartment through which mercury amalgam passes from an outlet end box to a decomposer. 


*Mercury cell chlor-alkali plant* means all contiguous or adjoining property that is under common control, where mercury cells are used to manufacture product chlorine, product caustic, and by-product hydrogen and where mercury may be recovered from wastes. 


*Mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility* means an affected source consisting of all cell rooms and ancillary operations used in the manufacture of product chlorine, product caustic, and by-product hydrogen at a mercury cell chlor-alkali plant. 


*Mercury concentration CMS, or mercury concentration continuous monitoring system,* means a CMS, as defined in ยง 63.2, that continuously measures the concentration of mercury. 


*Mercury-containing wastes* means waste materials containing mercury, which are typically classified under Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) solid waste designations. K071 wastes are sludges from the brine system. K106 are wastewater treatment sludges. D009 wastes are non-specific mercury-containing wastes, further classified as either debris or nondebris (*i.e.,* cell room sludges and carbon from decomposes). 


*Mercury pump* means a component of a mercury cell for conveying elemental mercury re-created in the decomposer to the beginning of the mercury cell. A mercury pump is typically found either as an in-line mercury pump (near a mercury suction pot or mercury seal pot) or submerged mercury pump (within a mercury pump tank or mercury pump seal). 


*Mercury recovery facility* means an affected source consisting of all processes and associated operations needed for mercury recovery from wastes at a mercury cell chlor-alkali plant. 


*Mercury thermal recovery unit* means the retort(s) where mercury-containing wastes are heated to volatilize mercury and the mercury recovery/control system (control devices and other equipment) where the retort off-gas is cooled, causing mercury to condense and liquid mercury to be recovered. 


*Mercury thermal recovery unit vent* means the discharge point of the mercury thermal recovery unit to the atmosphere after all recovery/control devices. This term encompasses both oven type vents and non-oven type vents. 


*Mercury vacuum cleaner* means a cleanup device used to draw a liquid mercury spill or accumulation (via suction pressure) into a closed compartment. 


*Non-oven type mercury thermal recovery unit vent* means the discharge point to the atmosphere after all recovery/control devices of a mercury thermal recovery unit in which the retort is either a rotary kiln or single hearth retort. 


*Open-top container* means any container that does not have a tight-fitting cover that keeps its contents from being exposed to the atmosphere. 


*Oven type mercury thermal recovery unit vent* means the discharge point to the atmosphere after all recovery/control devices of a mercury thermal recovery unit in which each retort is a batch oven retort. 


*Responsible official* means responsible official as defined in 40 CFR 70.2. 


*Retort* means a furnace where mercury-containing wastes are heated to drive mercury into the gas phase. The types of retorts used as part of mercury thermal recovery units at mercury cell chlor-alkali plants include batch oven retorts, rotary kilns, and single hearth retorts. 


*Spalling* means fragmentation by chipping. 


*Sump* means a large reservoir or pit for wastewaters (primarily washdown waters). 


*Trench* means a narrow channel or depression built into the length of a cell room floor that leads washdown materials to a drain. 


*Vent hose* means a connection for transporting gases from the mercury cell. 


*Virgin mercury* means mercury that has not been processed in an onsite mercury thermal recovery unit or otherwise recovered from mercury-containing wastes onsite. 


*Washdown* means the act of rinsing a floor or surface with a stream of aqueous liquid to cleanse it of a liquid mercury spill or accumulation, generally by driving it into a trench. 


*Week* means any consecutive seven-day period. 


*Work practice standard* means any design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof, that is promulgated pursuant to section 112(h) of the CAA.



---

[N] [68 FR 70928, Dec. 19, 2003, as amended at 87 FR 27023, May 6, 2022]







