# ยง 19.662   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the following terms have the meanings indicated.


*Alcohol fuel plant.* A special type of distilled spirits plant authorized under 26 U.S.C. 5181 and established under this subpart solely for producing, processing, and storing, and using or distributing distilled spirits to be used exclusively for fuel use.


*Bonded premises.* The premises of an alcohol fuel plant where distilled spirits are produced, processed, and stored, and used or distributed as described in the application for alcohol fuel producer permit. The term includes the premises of small alcohol fuel plants exempt from bonding requirements under ยง 19.673(e).


*Fuel alcohol.* Distilled spirits that have been made unfit for beverage use at an alcohol fuel plant as provided in this subpart.


*Large plant.* An alcohol fuel plant that produces (including receives) more than 500,000 proof gallons of spirits per calendar year.


*Make unfit for beverage use.* Add materials to distilled spirits that will preclude their beverage use without impairing their quality for fuel use as prescribed and authorized by the provisions of this subpart.


*Medium plant.* An alcohol fuel plant that produces (including receives) more than 10,000 but not more than 500,000 proof gallons of spirits per calendar year.


*Permit.* The document issued pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 5181 and this subpart authorizing the person named to engage in business as an alcohol fuel plant.


*Plant.* An alcohol fuel plant.


*Proprietor.* The person qualified under this subpart to operate an alcohol fuel plant.


*Small plant.* An alcohol fuel plant that produces (including receives) not more than 10,000 proof gallons of spirits per calendar year.


*Spirits or distilled spirits.* The substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, from whatever source or by whatever process produced), but not fuel alcohol unless specifically stated. The term does not include spirits produced from petroleum, natural gas, or coal.


*Transfer in bond.* The transfer of spirits between alcohol fuel plants or between a distilled spirits plant qualified under 26 U.S.C. 5171 and an alcohol fuel plant.


